ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e28	The President will propose that the public gallery be closed during today's meeting, and it is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e44	The Storting received on Friday 14 May a notice from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Nikolai Astrup, Iselin Nybø and Dag-Inge Ulstein will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative of Terje Aasland.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e53	Today, almost 200,000 people are totally or partially out of work. Regardless of the pandemic, the challenges that Norwegian business has to solve in the coming years are formidable. By 2050, according to Finans Norway, one million new jobs must be created. Until 2030, greenhouse gas emissions will be cut by 55 pst, and we have witnessed a decline in the trade balance by over 400 billion. kr from 2013 until now. These are big challenges, which don't go by themselves. It is important to ensure that policy is facilitated, inter alia, by: that business can seize the opportunities that exist there and enable us to meet these challenges. The Minister of Economic Affairs wrote in the Finanzavisen on 9 March: ‘When we return to our economy and continue to build a sustainable welfare society, we must continue to do what we are good at.’ Nicely written, but it is completely impossible to understand from the Minister of Industry's contributions to the Financial Newspaper, or in so far as other statements she has made in her time as Minister of Industry, what she thinks we are good at. The only answer given by the Minister of Economic Affairs is broad and general instruments that are far too under-performing and too under-targeted. Broad and general instruments are sufficient in themselves, but they can never replace concrete and targeted measures, especially in the areas in which we believe it is natural to invest, and where Norway and Norwegian business have a special advantage. 200,000 out of work, one million new jobs by 2050, cut greenhouse gas emissions by 55 pst. and a significant deterioration in the trade balance is a major challenge. These challenges can only be met by active industrial policies and cannot be solved only by broad, general and, to some extent, passive instruments. We see that the countries around us are far more focused on tailor-made measures to raise exports, raise jobs and secure new income to the country. We lose position every day. Nevertheless, the government proposes to twist the instrument with broad instruments. My question is, what does this mean for Norwegian business in practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e69	It's true that we have a big job ahead of us. We have to get people back to work after the pandemic. We need to facilitate the creation of new jobs. We have to increase exports. We have to get more legs on when it comes to exports. The government is already doing a lot today. One of the most important things a government can do is to have good framework conditions for business, because it is not politicians who can adopt or create all these jobs. It's our business. They're the creators out there. First of all, it means that we in this country must have a reasonable level of taxation, which allows businesses to develop and grow. We have some tools – some are wide, some are narrower. But having a good tool, focusing on research and development, is absolutely crucial when we're going to develop our society further and get new legs to stand on. Some of the concrete things we've done now under the pandemic to also take advantage of this opportunity to get out on the other side better than we were, is the Green Platform. It's a whole new way of working for our tool, where the Research Council, SIVA and Innovation Norway agree on a platform for green projects. This is precisely about the transition that the representative is in. What we have also done recently is that we are now starting to set up an export strategy council. I fully agree that we have export challenges. We have a business that sees great potential, but we have to think more strategically, we have to think more coordination of the instrument we have. That's why we've also allocated 100 million. SEK for export bet, 75 million. kr to the Export Strategy Council and the work to be done there.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e82	It is good that we agree on the challenge and that the challenge is formidable, both for those who are out of work now, the new jobs that need to be created by 2050, cut greenhouse gas emissions and not least that we need to do something about the critical situation related to the trade balance. When we talk to Norwegian business, we hear about a need for better loan guarantees and better loan arrangements. Different forms of risk relief must be put in place for private investment. We hear that a desire for state resources for scaling and commercialisation. One wants clearer growth strategies to be established, which means something for, among other things. increased exports, new revenues and new opportunities. We also hear about the active use of state ownership, where it can provide new opportunities, and we believe that the many opportunities of Norwegian business are strengthened through a state that wants to be a good partner and a good facilitator for Norwegian business. It is quite essential, and therefore I wonder: Why does the Minister of Industry think that business is wrong when more targeted and concrete measures are called for to develop new business opportunities and jobs, for example with increased use of important instruments such as state capital?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e89	I do not believe that business is necessarily wrong when they require other arrangements or other arrangements. That's why we're looking at it all the way. We have just had a broad review of the industrial tool. We're a little late with the follow-up there because of the corona, but now we're working to implement some of those changes. The green platform, as I mentioned, is just such a way of thinking about something new – a completely different way of connecting our instrument for the benefit of just business. But when I meet the business community, I hear business owners talking about the wealth tax, I hear business owners who are concerned with stable and good framework conditions so that they can evolve and do what they're good at. When I meet the business community, I feel that's what they're asking for. We're going to be a good partner, but there's a difference between being a partner and having to own everything. There is a difference between being the owner and having to govern and take over the duties of a board of directors.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e98	There will be follow-up questions – first Terje Aasland.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e103	I have never said that we should assume the role of a board of directors, but it is possible to have a practical and active approach to the challenges facing Norwegian business. It's about meeting them. When the Minister of Economic Affairs says that she has had a broad review of the instrument, but has not been presented to the Stortinget, it is a very bad thing. For the only answer we can read in the revised national budget is that the government intends, over time now, to liquidate Siva – an instrument that is now being strongly protested against by the government. The last time the government was going to do something about the instrument, it was Torbjørn Røe Isaksen, as Minister of Industry, who proposed to put down or actually dissolve the functions of Investinor. But one concrete task that the Minister of Industry has been given on his table, which has not yet been resolved, is the ratio of compensation for lost stocks, which was adopted in February in the United Kingdom, and where the Minister of Industry said in March that the money is now coming. The money has not yet arrived, and one does not know whether a system is getting to search through. This is about meeting business and the needs of business. Then my question is: why can business not now apply to the scheme that the Stortinget adopted already in February?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e110	Yes, there's going to be an arrangement. The business community should be able to apply for it, and they're going to get their money. We have chosen to add up to this compensation scheme that we have, and it is about making it user-friendly, understandable and easy for companies to apply for the scheme. Once again, we're getting a good deal into this pandemic, and we're going to have to change the basis of our system. It is in order for us to continue to have broad arrangements that make our entire business, and not just those that are all, most badly affected. In this process, we need to have a good dialogue with ESA. The Brønn Island Health Registers need to expand and adapt their platform. This is complex, it's complicated, and it takes time. I would like to have that arrangement up and go now, but it's going to take a little longer than what we first hoped. Now it seems that there may be a three-week delay compared to what we had originally hoped.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e119	Terje Aasland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e124	It's amazing to hear the answer. The business that is now struggling, which would have had to cover its stockpiles, may be on the verge of a bankruptcy – a bankruptcy that may not be a way to avoid because you do not get the money that Storting has said you should get. It is quite incredible to hear the answer – that they will then get that money, but it will take some time before we can fix it. We cannot have the approach to Norwegian business, especially in the current crisis situation, because it is now burning. When I read the revised national budget, I am really surprised that there are really no measures there that will somehow bring up the activity and make people come back to work and through this crisis. It seems that the Minister of Economic Affairs has completely forgotten to come up with measures that can quickly get people back to work. But it is tempting to ask: What concrete measures does the Minister for Industry think she has put forward, which will create activity in business on the way out of the crisis, and which we can read to through the revised national budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e132	I would first like to add that it is working very hard, both in the Brønnøsund registers, in ESA and not least in my own bureaucrats in the Ministry of Food and Fisheries, to get these arrangements in place as quickly as possible. It's precisely because we know that business is totally dependent on them. But we also have more arrangements. We have this money that is paid out via the municipalities, as we know has been important, not least for the liquidity situation of many, also in the serving industry. When the representative calls for action, we are still in a period when a lot is about compensating. We hope now that we go into a period where we can stimulate more activity and that it opens up. That's the plan. It's the most important thing for business – that we have good arrangements in place to actually get our activity back on track. But to ask for arrangements when there are billions of dollars in the revised national budget that Stortinget has received, I think that's a little strange.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e141	Åsunn Lyngedal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e146	Travel life in Norway is particularly hit by Korona. The anti-infectious measures mean that many have lost their customers and their equity and incurred debts, and travel life reports that the compensation scheme makes them poor. In March, the SSB said that one in three jobs in this industry were gone, and the pandemic lasted. On 9 May, there was a bright spot – a national travel strategy from Visit Norway. It has created great enthusiasm because it points to a more sustainable travel life, but it requires political will and active industrial policy to implement it. Yesterday the Business Committee decided to strengthen Norwegian travel life after the pandemic. The Workers' Party, together with the red-green proposals, was encouraged. Among other things, we want a research heavy REIS21 process, and we want pilots to try out common good funding. This is the industry that provided 59 billion dollars. kr in export income before corona. When does the Council of State think it's time to also be the Minister of Travel and put the strategy into practice? Because it's too important for the drawer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e155	We've got a very exciting strategy, I'll say, and I'll give credit to the travel life that, despite the enormously difficult situation they themselves are in, has the ability to look forward and contribute greatly to this strategy. The government hasn't dealt with all the individual measures yet, but we're in the process, and we've already confirmed something. One of the things they've been asking for is this about the transition and the ability to work across the industry. To the conversion scheme to which we have allocated money, we're releasing the last 850 million. kr today. We've added 50 million. kr and doubled Innovation Norway's marketing budget. This is also about attracting the tourists we know there will be competition when Europe, Norway and the world open up again. Here are several things we have to do, but it's also very exciting to tackle the travel strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e160	Gisle Meininger Saudland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e165	Norway is a maritime nation. We have a world-class shipyard industry, but we're also good at recycling ships. Along the entire Norwegian coast there are now ships in warehouses that are ripe for replacement. In the state budget for 2021, the Progress Party was able to make a positive impact on an offshore ship containment system, and we put 150 million off. kr to it. Two weeks ago, the government launched the scheme, but the problem is that it does not require recycling to take place in Norwegian shipyards, despite the fact that the law firm Schjødt writes that it is perfectly possible to circumvent the EU State aid regulation and the requirements there. My question is: Why in the world does the government not demand that emergency money granted by Norwegian taxpayers be used in Norwegian courts, but does it allow this money to disappear to Poland, Romania, Portugal, etc., while Norwegian industry is still in the hands of lua?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e172	Norway is a small country with an open economy. We are more than many others dependent on the fact that we have a single European market, that we can buy and trade from each other, and not least that tenders that are put out can be tendered by both Norwegian and foreign companies. There are limitations on what we can do under EEA law, and although the juice is not necessarily such that you can put two lines in the answer each time, I believe that we have related ourselves to what is the law here. This is a scheme in which private companies that have to condemn a ship can receive support to rebuild another ship in a more environmentally and climate-friendly direction, but it is clear that there are large costs associated with it. It's like building up to 1 billion. I believe that private operators must have flexibility as to which actors they choose to do the job.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e177	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e182	The International Energy Agency recently issued a report that looked at what was needed to achieve the 1.5 degree target. They found out that the oil, coal and gas consumption must drop so fast that we already have what we need. So, they don't recommend any new oil and gas fields, no new coal mines or their extension. At the same time, we have a government that adds up to the opposite, which says in the perspective message that it is entirely in line with the Paris agreement to continue looking, to continue to invest in oil and gas production. They also set up large crisis packages for oil and gas industries, which allow them to produce more, to search for more, to go against even the Energy Agency's recommendations. Then we have a Minister of Industry who is responsible for a bet on the green shift, which is only 2 pst. inter alia: the crisis money has a green device. Can the Council of State explain how this is related and answer the big question if we're on the right side of history?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e189	There's no doubt that we have to make a transition, and that the transition will come upon us with full force. As several of my colleagues confirmed yesterday, the government's policy is firm. Now the Left has the ambition to negotiate a new government platform with the Right and Christian People's Party this fall, and I think the representative's party has ambitions to negotiate a completely different government platform with other parties. We have all now gone through a programme process and have a slightly different approach to this. But I represent the government in this context and I stand like that on the policy we have. At the same time, I'm concerned that we're using the opportunity we're in now, but also in the future, to work smarter, work greener, and we have a business that's on the team. We have a business that sees that the way they have to get market shares is about being greener, smarter and more climate friendly than competitors.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e196	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e202	The problem here is that we have a government that invests in the opposite of what the International Energy Agency even says, which is usually not an agency that SV has put particular trust in, and at least not the Left. Even now they say that production has to fall quickly. Sorry, can not open any new fields now. Even they say that. And then we have a government that makes the difference, where the big money is going to increase the search, to make it even more advantageous to produce fields that we don't need in the future. This happens at the same time as we're in the middle of a pandemic, where many of our neighbouring countries use considerable resources on a green shift, a green conversion. We have asked the Ministry of Finance to calculate it for us, and only 2 pst. means of crisis have a green device. In comparison, the EU Green Deal has 40 pst. related to the crisis money. Can the government defend its policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e207	I can definitely do that. What we have to do is we have to look at the whole of government policy. One of the largest industrial projects – perhaps the largest – that this government has addressed is just an air-conditioning project. It's about carbon capture and storage, and it has enormous potential. It's a business out there that's eager to export more. The process industry itself says they can double their exports within a few years, and it's just about being climate friendly. It's about the fact that they have a potential out there, which is bigger than their competitors, to sell their products, precisely because they have e.g. hydro available. So I mean it's the whole one has to look at, and it's perfectly obvious in a changing direction also for climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e212	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e217	My question is also addressed to the Minister of Industry, because large parts of Norwegian business are still in crisis 14–15 months after the first closure last year. I don't think we, who don't do business in any form, are quite capable of getting into the desperate situation they're still in. We who are politicians get full pay no matter how things go with the economy, it doesn't do employees in the business world. Neither do those who run the companies. No one claims that it's the government's fault or responsibility that we've been in a deep economic crisis, at least I don't. The virus has lasted longer than any of us thought early last year. But over the last year, the impression in business is that government and government parties have limped their legs when action is taken. Time and again, the size has had to renew, improve and strengthen solutions such that most businesses land on their legs, hopefully. In very strong contrast to this, the cultural sector stands. Although there are disagreements between the parties at Stortinget about how much the cultural sector is going to get from public funds in the normal time, probably all agree that when a crisis like this arises, culture should also be compensated. But there's a limit to how big the differences can be. The cultural sector is the only sector to receive compensation based on lost income. Enterprises have to accept support based on fixed costs, and they are not fully covered either. From the Minister of Culture, there has been a happy message after a happy announcement, now at the latest in the revised national budget of almost 1 billion. fresh crowns. From the Minister of Economic Affairs it was announced that another scheme had been adopted by the Stortinget was delayed. Why is it that culture, celebration and fun have consistently had a greater impact than value creation and jobs for this government?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e234	I am pleased that the representative Bjørnstad points to the fact that this is a pandemic, which no one can predict how will degenerate, and that culture has needed the arrangements it has received. It's different to driving culture than running the industry as such. We also have a cultural policy justification related to the support given to culture. And then we've spent a lot of billions of dollars on business as well. By 2020, it was probably 131 billion. NOK in the emergency money that was paid. A large part of it went to business. Business is broad. It holds everything from airplanes to small entrepreneurs. We have therefore invested in a number of schemes for business. We have strengthened the arrangements we already have, for example. Innovation Norway, to stimulate more people to start up on their own, and to keep them alive in the entrepreneurs we have. But we also have the broad compensation schemes that apply to those who have lost a lot of money because of the corona. I'm concerned that it's the whole thing that counts. It's all the arrangements put on top of each other that can get our business through this pandemic and out on the other side. Then it's like no one's harmless in a pandemic. The state has to go out with a lot of money, so the community has to go out with a lot of money, and the companies themselves take huge losses. It's clearly a goal both for the government and for the Stortinget that we're going to get as many as possible through this pandemic. When we open up again, we also want to have a business life on the other side.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e245	It's okay that there's a cultural policy justification, but it's getting quite a lot of strange results. Last week we were able to read in the Evening Post and several regional newspapers about cultural institutions that last year had great profits, much larger than in 2019. They have received ordinary but also large amounts of corona support. The Norwegian Opera & Ballet, for example, had an annual result of 18 million in 2019. kr. Last year, the result was $46 million. kr. At the same time, 18 million have been received. kr in the corona support. I think that most companies that have received corona support in 2020 have significantly worse results in 2020 than in 2019. Many of them probably also have red numbers on the bottom line, and the contrast to the cultural institutions is therefore very large. Does the Minister for Economic Affairs understand that many people experience this as a discrimination?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e252	I have a great deal of understanding that large parts of our business life are in a very frustrating situation. Many people don't know how to do it month by month. Many people endure because they have deferred taxes and taxes, but are totally dependent on having them reopened soon to get the money to pay this when it is due. So that frustration I have an enormous understanding of. Then, if you look at individual cases, you'll also find some different answers in the business-oriented help packages. One will find companies that received corona aid in 2020, but that went with a surplus when the year was over. We have examples of companies that have actually chosen to pay back the support they received, precisely because the situation was pretty precarious at first when they didn't have the overview, but after that they picked up, and it looked fine at the end. So if you look at individual cases, you'll be able to find special outcomes in all schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e259	There will be follow-up questions – Sivert Bjørnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e264	As mentioned earlier, the government of the revised national budget stated that the decision of the Storting has still not been followed up in February. Then we decided to include uncouth goods and fresh goods in the compensation scheme, and it has of course been very important for many in the food industry, who have burned in with food and drink that cannot be served as a result of government advice and demands. It should have actually, after the first delay, come tomorrow, but now it's a little bit in the blue when it comes. Tapers are Norwegian businesses, which have to live with further uncertainty. Then, of course, we can hope and believe that the summer and early harvest will be very good for those parts of the business that are now hard hit, but we can't be sure. The size soon disintegrates and does not meet until October. The story of the pandemic is that things don't necessarily go as the government has foreseen – maybe the opposite. Does the Council feel confident that she has the means needed in the coming months if things don't go as planned?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e269	I am very pleased that we made the change in the compensation scheme that we made in the autumn, so that we have a system in the Brønn Island Health Registers that is robust and that we have been able to draw out in time. In this way, the enterprises with the largest turnover will also receive the most support. That makes us have the opportunity. Now we have also extended these arrangements to the harvest, and if it should be necessary, we can then come back to Stortinget. We don't hope for that, and that's not what the prospects are for today, but as the representative is in, you can never say when you're in a pandemic. A few weeks ago, SR-Bank published a business survey barometer, and it shows that there is great optimism in business. What's good about it is that when most of the business goes well, people have work, it's activity, and when we open up, it will also help those parts of business that have been shut down for a long time now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e276	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e282	My question goes to the Minister of Industry and concerns travel and aviation. Travel and aviation industries are major industries with value creation and jobs throughout the country. But it's also the nutrients that are the hardest of the pandemic. The crisis management, in the view of the Centre Party, has been characterized by a government that has not fully understood the seriousness of these industries and that has been behind them. The size has repeatedly been required to take responsibility. Unfortunately, the government's crisis measures have for too long had a short-term and unresponsive character. The tourism industry — tourists disappeared overnight — is in a very serious situation. The compensation mechanism has helped, but it does not change the fact: there is still a crisis in the tourism industry. The central party does not believe that the government and the Minister of Industry fully understand the seriousness of the situation. Another industry that is a powerful framework is the aviation industry. There are actually few industries that are ramming harder. 30000 direct additions have experienced a decrease of 95 pst. in international traffic and 70-75 pst. in national traffic. Nevertheless, this industry of government is kept out of the compensation arrangements. And a well-functioning aeronautical industry is a haven for happiness in travel life. Then there are many in these industries who have expectations for the summer. But still the government's recommendation is that people should drop unnecessary travel in Norway. This gives a small amount of care for the nutrients. And even if it were to be a good summer with many Northmen who get the opportunity to travel, no part of either travel life or aviation can live off a good month a year. Then the question is, Is the Council satisfied with the unresponsive way in which the government has dealt with travel and aviation?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e297	Travel is, of course, a diversity of businesses — large and small — that are engaged in quite a variety of things. One has aviation on one side, which is big companies with a huge cash burn every month, and then one has the individual company that takes tourists out on a boat trip. So there's not one scheme that can hit all of them in the same way. That is why we also have different arrangements to meet those who are among the most severely affected sectors of the pandemic. To take aviation: aviation is an industry that has received a lot of attention and money through this pandemic. We've bought routes in Norway in a different way from what the rest of Europe has done, which at some point meant that on flights under the pandemic, Unøe was one of the largest airlines in the world. We have had good permitting arrangements, which make a lot of the costs as seen off. We've given money to Avinor. We have made provision for this guarantee facility. But what we've also done, against the will of the Center Party, was say no to go into Norwegian earlier this fall with money. I'm so glad we stood there and used reason in that situation and said no to go into a company with as much debt as Norwegian had at the time. Because what do we see now? Now we see a company that is on its way out of a restructuring process, a completely different company with a completely different prerequisite for success in the future. So sometimes we also have to make some tough decisions, because that's what's best for the community and the use of the community's resources. Now we have presented a revised national budget proposing to include aviation in the compensation scheme, but where we also outline other arrangements if the Storting believes that that is what makes sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e308	Whether the company is large or small, it is important to maintain a company, and whether the companies are large or small, the charging policy is important. As part of the crisis policy, Stortinget has reduced VAT for travel from 12 to 6 pst. This applies until 1 July of this year. The center party thought we should see that 2021 is a tough year, and that we have a low VAT rate in 2021 and a sure precaution. Government party requested not to do so. The government has now proposed to postpone the reduction of VAT until 1 October, but there is still no agreement in Stortinget. Travel companies do not know what the VAT rate is today in July. One must wait for a final decision in Stortinget to be reached. Then my question is: does the Council not see the need for more care for travel, both a more prudent policy and a charging policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e317	There is a balance between stimulating inactivity and stimulating activity. There is also some reason why we have retained the various compensation schemes, because we want to stimulate activity at some point. So we're also going to make some changes now, as we hopefully go into what's going to be a more activity-stimulating period. In the case of VAT in particular, reduced VAT is a matter of travel life that has been considered too long before the pandemic. It's definitely a matter they're going to fight for even after the pandemic, because they feel that it benefits their industry. Of course, it's their right to do that, but as a government, we also have to balance the costs. Now, as the representative says, we have put forward a proposal for the revised national budget, and then we will see how the Stortinget treats it. But our proposal now is to extend the reduced VAT for several months.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e326	There will be follow-up questions – first Geir Pollestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e331	There is a lot of evidence that we're going to go into a phase where we're going to rebuild our activity. For the restaurant and catering industry, there have been demanding times, with shut-downs, partial reopening, shutdowns and arrangements that have not been put in place. Here it is possible to do things that will make the situation easier when you are going to contribute to activity again. A requirement and a desire that the industry has had, and that the Central Party supports, is to have reduced VAT on serving services, i.e. to go down from 25 to 15 pst. This is a requirement that not only the centre party and industry have, but it is a requirement in the Left Party program, that one wants to reduce the rate of VAT on the hall of food in restaurants. When one is in a situation of a serious restaurant industry, one has a measure that one knows will help to facilitate the economy, and it is stated in the Left Party Programme: Why will the Minister of Industry of the Left not support this measure?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e338	Of course, a Minister of Industry from the Left will always fight for his own programme, but in the current situation, we must distinguish between what is permanent and what is crisis response. And it is always easier to put in place crisis mechanisms than it is to end them. We've seen that up to now, and we're also going to see that in the future, because business is going through a tough period even at startup. Right now, it's probably that part of the business -- that's restaurant and serving -- looks most likely, to be allowed to open up again, get guests back, get to do the usual activity again. VAT is one of several measures, but it does not help with reduced VAT if you do not have guests.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e345	Sigbjørn Gülsvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e350	Aviation has been hard and long-term hit by the pandemic, affecting tens of thousands of jobs, both jobs directly in the airlines and all those dependent on the ring-effects, all the peoples and businesses around the whole of Norway who depend on well-functioning aviation. Finally, in January, Stortinget asked for a compensation scheme for aviation, which the Center Party had been involved for a long time. Then comes the revised national budget, and there the government writes that developments in aviation mean that there is no appropriate compensation mechanism, despite the fact that since January the situation has deteriorated for the airlines through strict crisis measures, international travel restrictions and strict national restrictions, and a summer that seems to be carrying out bids for strongly reduced aviation activity. Why does the government show such reluctance to compensate the aviation industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e357	First, I have to add that the aviation industry also receives and has received considerable funds through this pandemic. It is not that the aviation is standing without any assistance. That being said, we also see a development in this market that is quite interesting. We see that there have been more players on the market, not fewer. We see that private capital is quite loose when it comes to investments in aviation. That makes us in a different situation now than we were a few months ago. We have a different perspective for this industry than we had before. Now Norwegian is going through a restructuring process that has been quite demanding. SAS on its side have strong capitalist owners in their backs. Norway as a country is not one of them. However, aviation as an industry now has several actors either in the process of starting up or having established themselves here.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e362	Sigbjørn Gülsvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e368	Aviation is one of the industries that has been most hard hit by the strict restrictions imposed under the pandemic, but it has still not received any compensation mechanism. What the Minister for Industry refers to is loans that have not been subject to particularly favourable conditions. There are subsidies to Avinor, which are actually subsidies to the State itself, which are important enough for aviation but do not affect the profitability of the airlines. The ticket purchases are also not a gold mine for the airlines, to say the least. Then, in the revised national budget, a compensation scheme is put forward which, for the first time, for the year behind us, does not involve compensation for the airlines, and for the time being, it is likely – if there is any compensation for the airlines at all, with the conditions in it – it will only be about small money. It is about providing compensation to enterprises in different industries that are hard hit. Therefore, in a short time, we established a broad compensation scheme. Why did one not also provide compensation for the hard hit airlines?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e377	Through the pandemic, we have made provision for a significant guarantee facility, we have purchased a significant number of routes, we have given support to Avinor, and we have now proposed to include them in the compensation scheme. Yes — this is an industry, an industry, which is heavily affected by the relevant infectious diseases prevention measures. It is an industry with very high ‘cash burn’ every month, but the state has set up to help this industry as well. When we compare with other countries, we've had other types of arrangements, but we've also helped to keep this industry alive through the pandemic, and we're going to go on doing that to some extent when we're now including them in the compensation scheme. We have presented a revised national budget that outlines a form of compensation scheme for aviation, but precisely because we see the developments that have taken place in this sector, we do not believe there is any reason to have a separate compensation scheme at that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e384	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e389	My question goes to the Minister for Development. We now experience a very dramatic and serious situation in the Middle East, an escalation that in many ways started with the Israeli expulsion of Palestinians from their homes in East Jerusalem, and the protests against it. It has further escalated through Hamas’ rocket attack on Israeli cities. Now there's a daily air raid, bombing, against Gaza. At least ten people are killed in Israel, over 200 in Gaza, nearly half women and children. I will challenge the Minister for Development on this, among other things. because there are now very many worrying messages from humanitarian organisations in Gaza. I can refer to the message that came from Doctor Without Borders today, where they report that their trauma clinic in Gaza is injured in an Israeli air raid, they point out that patients and employees are forced to flee their homes, and ‘The damage to our clinic last night shows that no place in Gaza is safe.’ [[...]] The Church's emergency aid reported last week that they were in deep sorrow after five of the children of local employees in Gaza were killed in an Israeli rocket attack. The Director-General of the International Red Cross Committee has stated that he is shocked when a Red Crescent Office in Gaza was attacked by air. This is an attack that is legitimized with self-defense, but of which there is now increasing criticism, because they are obviously out of proportion and affecting civilians very hard. What does the Minister for Development think about humanitarian actors being attacked in Gaza?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e398	There's terrible scenes playing out. As the government and the Foreign Minister, who follow these matters closely up from the government, have been very clear, condemns the attacks that have been committed and the losses that you look at civilians, both in Gaza and in Israel. We have also had close contact with many of the organisations that the questioner comments on here – the Church’s Emergency Help, the World Food Program at David Beasley, who had a very strong appeal about elementary access – just the last day. It shows how serious the situation is, and called for peace, which must be seen in results. So that's the clear message from the government that it's working very hard on, among other things. related to the work done by the Security Council. Apart from that, the Minister for Development does not have any other contact with our actors, but it is obvious that many have been hit hard. It's really scary to see the losses happening, even while we're talking here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e413	The council says the government has been clear. That's the shared opinions about. The government was very clear when it came to condemning Hamas’ rocket attack, and it is a condemnation that we join one hundred percent. There is no justification or legitimacy for that kind of attack on civilians. But the government has not been as clear about condemning the Israeli air strikes and their consequences for civilians. If I can now challenge the Development Minister quite clearly, then there is no doubt about it: does the government also condemn Israel's air attack on Gaza?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e420	It has been very clear on the part of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Now the Foreign Minister is not here, but it has been clear in both the press releases, the speeches and the comments that have been, just that one condemns the loss of civilians in both Israel and Gaza. It has been and is the clear message, and it is a clear message that also comes here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e425	There will be follow-up questions – first the Audun Light Bin.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e430	It would have been an advantage, I think, if the government had managed to be as clear in its condemnation of Israeli attacks as they have been of Hamas' missile attack. But it's possible I'm not going to do it any more right now. Let me then ask the Minister for Development the following: the crisis in Palestine is not new. The Korona hit the Palestinians extremely hard, the economy is in crisis. In the state budget for 2021, we can read that the Palestinian economy was significantly worsened in 2020; there is a need for increased support in 2021. Nevertheless, we could also read that the post financing projects in Palestine had been reduced by almost 50 million. NOK, and when SV asked for more information about this, we were told that there could be some reductions in the Palestinian support. But it was only the first chapter, because then the budget negotiations came with the Progress Party, where the government chose to negotiate another 30 million. kr in cut, Palestinian eartag. Does the Minister for Development think that this was proper today? Are these cuts standing?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e439	A situation in which the pandemic has widened – with the changes needed, both with projects that it was not possible to implement with the pandemic as it developed, and also with the major needs related to the health budgets – has led to changes and re-priorities in the budget. We closely follow it up and want the aid to be used as efficiently as possible, and they can reach where they are needed in the middle of a pandemic. It's been, and it's also going to be the way we work on it, also in the continuation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e444	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e450	Let me now just get a clear answer to two questions: Is it now, in this crisis, for the government to go in with increased funds? That's the first question. The second thing I didn't get a response to is: how does the Minister for Development think that the cuts he was making in the harvest are in the light of the current crisis?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e455	This hall negotiated the largest humanitarian budget ever — a strong increase. The questioner knows that very much. It was precisely because we want to be involved and contribute where there is great need, where there is need, and where there is a negative development, as we see. Now I can't say how we're going to go in with changes in next year's budget before we put it forward, but it's quite obvious that the pandemic has led to great consequences in many of the poorest countries, and so are we going to see when we're going to present our budget for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e460	Anniken Huitfeldt – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e465	If we see this eight-year period as a whole, where the Christian People's Party has negotiated all the aid budgets, and at a very high level, we see that there has been a systematic decline in support for Palestinian refugees through the UNRWA. It goes to hospitals, it goes to schools for millions of Palestinian refugees. And although the Christian People's Party often disagrees with the Party of Advancement in Development Policy, this is something that the Christian People's Party negotiated at the time the Party of Advancement put in government: cut Palestinian refugees. And when the Progress Party negotiates budgetary settlements, there is also agreement that it should be cut to Palestinian refugees. So there has been a significant decrease since 2013. Why does the Christian People’s Party agree with the Advancement Party that it is right to cut Palestinian refugees?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e470	I do not agree with the question that is being asked, because the Christian People's Party has been involved in embossing the aid budgets, as the representative says, for several years, and has just had a clear turn against the vulnerable groups and a concentration against the low-income countries where there is the greatest need. We see a very clear picture of the Christian People's Party's policy in the aid budgets. So it's obvious that in the case of many of the people we're engaging in, it's precisely to address the basic reasons why many are being driven away, whether it's climate change, whether it's the important health efforts that have been, and not least what's related to education, and education for vulnerable groups. It's been an important investment and it's going to be in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e477	Bears Moxnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e482	In proposals for the revised budget, the government states that Norway will increase the appropriations for the embassy in Israel by 1 million. kr. At the same time, the government has decided that organisations supporting peaceful action against the violation of Israel’s international law should be excluded from Norwegian aid. Now we see that Israel bombs densely built strips, kills civilians. On Saturday they bombed the building like the House Associated Press and also other international media. Does the Minister for Assistance really think that it is right to blacklist organisations calling for peaceful sanctions against Israel's violations of international law, so that they cannot help Palestinian civilians who are now being subjected to Israel's warfare?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e487	Now it's another government council that's here and can respond to what's related to the business life initiative and what's in the revised national budget there, so I think that's what I'm going to have to say to the Council of State Nybø.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e492	Moxnes should then have the opportunity to ask a new follow-up question, if appropriate, and address it to the Council of State Nybø.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e497	This is because the government has decided to exclude organisations that support peaceful action against Israel’s violations of international law, which peacefully support the BDS campaign. They are excluded from receiving Norwegian assistance. This is, as I can see, under the Ministry of Aid and the budget of the Minister of Industry, not under the Minister of Industry's budget. My question is, is it right to exclude these from receiving assistance and to be able to help Palestinian civilians? This applies not least when we now see Israel going forward with brutal warfare that affects very many civilians, not least children, as we have seen in the last few days – over 60 children are killed by bombs. Norway has decided through political decisions to exclude organisations from receiving assistance because they want peaceful sanctions against Israel. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e504	The government supports several civil society organisations that do a vital job within the Palestinian territories, and will make careful assessments of it in the course of the process, so that we know that those funds are being used in a good way. It will be the assessments that will also be made in the course of the process.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e510	Bears Moxnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e515	It was an interesting answer I got now. It can be interpreted as meaning that the government will now reconsider the current decision excluding important organisations from receiving assistance from Norway if they support the international BDS campaign, which calls for peaceful sanctions against Israel to press the occupying power to stop the occupation and withdraw from occupied areas. These are instruments that we know have been important to other regimes in the past – peaceful boycott and sanctions were important to put pressure on the then apartheid regime in South Africa. Do I understand correctly that the Council of State now says that the government will reconsider this political censorship of those who support the BDS campaign, and perhaps start giving money back to these organizations, even though they support peaceful action against the State of Israel to put pressure on the occupying power?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e522	The government's policy is firm, and we are going to continue to support key civil society organisations that are just contributing to important work, as was pointed out here.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e527	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e532	The question goes to the Council of State astrup. We're getting a message of concern from many municipalities about the challenge they're now starting to face in the long-term effects of the coronary situation. There are challenges in helping local business to stand up again, in terms of challenges due to school connections, and of course the challenges we face in mental health, and with a strong focus on the younger part of the population. Then we see that the government has started the story of how good the municipal economy is and that the government has provided a good financial framework for the municipalities. To say that the government is making up the corpse is well to drag it far, but that they decorate the bride so much that what you see, is not what you get, that's probably right. The fact that we see good financial results in municipalities at large is a result of the government’s failure rate for tax receipts, lower interest rates than calculated and lower pension costs than calculated – luck for the municipalities there, that is. For the third year in a row, the government adds to a zero budget at best for the municipalities, in the municipal bill for 2022, and they do so while the municipalities report their concerns about how to normalize and repair the coronary damage they see coming. The municipalities are asking for long-termity, and they are asking for a strengthening of the municipal economy. They're not asking for enough of a zero settlement, as the Council of State and the government put it – that is, for the third consecutive year. Does the Council of State not see that there is a clear need to strengthen the finances of municipalities beyond what the government proposes in the municipal bill?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e543	Let me start by thanking the representative for the question. I began to worry that I would not get any questions. Fortunately, the representative came to my rescue. Since 2013, we have contributed 35 billion to the municipal sector. kr. In 2013, there were 46 municipalities on the ROBEK list, now there are 13 municipalities. It is an expression that, over the last few years, the government has both given solid appropriations to the local government and that there have been higher tax revenues than what has been foreseen. So for 2022, it looks like the tax revenue is going to be 3.2 billion. kr higher than what we thought when we made the state budget for 2021. So it's going to be for this year, but they're going to take it into 2022, and it's going to be a lasting and significant strengthening of the local economy. On top of that, there's an increase in free income between 2 billion. kr and 2,4 brd. kr, so that the free income of the local government sector will now be 412 billion. kr. That's money, too – even in the representative's party. The real action space as we add up to the municipal proposition will increase by between 0.5 billion. kr and 0,9 brd. kr, which will allow municipalities to further develop the services offered to the inhabitants. The sector went by 3 pst. profits last year, and KS is clear that the government has set up as promised for the handling of the coronary apathy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e550	The municipalities have had fun with this government, which is bad at calculating taxes and pensions. That's the way it is. I'm just going to quote from Unio's comments on the revised budget for 2021 and the municipal proposal for 2022: ‘The Community scheme for 2022 is set at 2 billion. crowns in minus when we look at the net economic space in free income. Little willingness of the government of Solberg to use the municipal sector in the fight against the highest unemployment rate we've had since the war could lead to a slower collection when the infectious diseases measures are gradually lifted. Many municipalities report tight budgets and have to cut core services. KS shall notify the same.’;» Then Unio continues: ‘The real space for action of the municipal sector in 2022 with the government’s arrangements is so tight that it will result in tightening up the important core services of education, health and care.’ Now it's just the government parties who believe in their own history of a good community economy. Why doesn't the Council of State want to listen to them with their shoes in any way, like that. Unio and KS, which represent those who stand in the first line every single day?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e567	I listen to both Unio and KS and have regular meetings with both of them, and they give a slightly different picture than the one that the representative here is drawing. The representative obviously gives a little bit of a reaction to something that I don't know what is. But if we look at the big picture, KS is clear that the government has set up for the local government in dealing with the coronary apathy. So the representative might choose to ignore the fact, but the fact is that the local government sector had about 30 billion. kr on book in 2013. Now they have nearly 70 billion. kr on book. The number of municipalities at ROBEK has gone from 46 in 2013 to 13 now. It is clear that if the representative's description of the government's arrangements for the local economy were correct, that would not have been possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e574	There will be follow-up questions – first Ingvild Kjerkol.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e579	The authorities took little account of mental health in their plans, writes the Corona Commission. We in the Workers' Party believe that there is a need for a specific effort and a lasting increase in the capacity for mental health care now to prevent young people from dragging on their problems in life. The government’s actions in the revised national budget and the municipal framework we now know contain small sums of lowthreshold services and health-free services. Most schemes are temporarily funded, but we know that municipalities will receive long-term and sustainable expenditure on mental health care as a result of this pandemic. How does the Council of State feel that municipalities should be able to develop a permanent capacity increase in mental health care with the municipal framework provided? Or is it simply a wish from the government that this should be the one-off bet?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e588	We are committed to providing the municipalities with sound, good financial frameworks that enable the provision of services to be further developed even in the field of mental health. There is no doubt that there is reason to worry about the situation on the way out of the pandemic in the area of mental health. I am therefore concerned that the municipalities should have a sound financial framework, so that they can further develop the service provision in this area as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e594	Ingvild Kjerkol – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e599	There is no doubt that Norwegian municipalities have delivered well and improvised well under this pandemic, and there are several of us who have filed the municipal board in the evening prayer this year. But it is also a part that has worked badly when the government and the government have the overall responsibility. There has been a lack of digital infrastructure, which has created delays in the transmission of infectious diseases. There has been poor communication with municipalities. Those municipal doctors also had to attend government press conferences, and as the representative before me also pointed out, there has been a lack of support for the TISK strategy in the municipalities. Municipalities still report large vulnerabilities. The municipal framework submitted is a zero settlement for an exceptionally demanding year. The economic impact on the municipal sector is far from covered by this. That's what KS says, and it says several distinct voices who know a municipal accounts. Why are no more of the lessons from the first report of the Corona Commission included in the calculations when presenting the framework for the next year to Norwegian municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e606	In dealing with a pandemic, it goes without saying that not everything has been perfect, and that there is a need to learn to improve in the future. We also do that in communications between the state and the municipality. Having said that, I believe that we have had close and close contact with the municipalities throughout this demanding period of regular meetings and good dialogue on difficult matters – including the TISK work, on the priority of vulnerable children and young people and other important issues. Then I do not agree with the representative's description that this is a zero settlement for the municipalities. It is only in 2015 and 2016 that there has been a greater real space for action in the municipality than what we propose in 2022, so this is a solid arrangement that will enable municipalities to further develop the service provision. And on top of that, 3.2 billion. kr i estimated higher tax revenue.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e615	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e620	My question goes to the Minister for Development. Norway started with assistance in the 1960s. According to Norad’s grant portal, Norway has granted a total of 678 billion in the period 1960–2020. kr in aid. Only in 2020 we gave 39.5 billion. kr. The main idea behind assistance is that countries should get out of poverty and be able to cope with themselves. Apart from South Korea, as far as I have been able to register, there is no other recipient country that has become independent of assistance. This indicates that the assistance has failed in its main objective, but as the government continues to provide billions of assistance, I assume that the Council of State believes the assistance is being used as intended. In 2018, the British consultancy company Itad presented it in cooperation with Chr. Michelsens Institute a report as slaughtered Norwegian aid policy. The report highlighted that the U.D. and Norad do not even attempt to clarify the meaning of target and result management within a comprehensive Norwegian aid framework. As has gradually become routine in the Norwegian administration, the report was received with enthusiasm, and the state councils were to start working immediately to improve the procedures. At that time, it was Minister of Development Astrup and Minister of Foreign Affairs Soreide. The report was put in a drawer, but I assume that today's Minister of Development is well aware of it, and that the depressing reading has given him the initiative or wish to really make a change in order to get proper governance and proper goals. What has the Council of State done specifically to make aid policy more transparent? What are the specific requirements and objectives of the organisations receiving our tax money, and how is this documented?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e631	Norwegian assistance undergoes both a lot of reporting and a lot of follow-up, and there is a clear standard that is set, where Norwegian assistance delivers very well. The OECD has a review of aid going to low-income countries, providing Norway with good results and a high score. Then it's quite obvious that we're going to learn all the way. What the representative says about transparency and transparency has been important to the government and is the background for us to launch the performance portal, which allows everyone to go in and follow the appropriations that have been given, as well as the reports and results of each project. Every year between 2013 and 2016, thanks to Norwegian assistance, 3 million children in developing countries received schooling through the funds allocated. In Malawi — another concrete project — more than 80,000 farmers have been trained in what is climate-friendly agriculture, which can be crucial when we know that climate change and crop degradation are one of the main reasons why we see a large increase in people being driven away. Through GAVI's work, we have helped to vaccinate 822 million children in the world's poorest country. These are numbers that count, and it's aid that benefits. I'm incredibly proud that in a time like the one we have behind us, we have managed to keep the assistance at a high level. In fact, global assistance increased by 3.5 pst. in the crisis year, in which the donor countries effectively maintained the plans made before the outbreak of the pandemic, and some even increased their efforts. Of course, I'm concerned about how progress will be further, but the support of the population in the latest surveys that have been is actually 87 pst. It was the Statistical Central Bureau that put this forward. Nearly nine out of ten Nordics are in favour of providing assistance to developing countries. It is a support that has been stable for many years and has increased since 2013, so I'm excited when we get new figures from the SSB in this area in June.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e640	The point of assistance is that one will become independent of the assistance. It is not how many people can go to school, and there are even more people going to school next year – it must be the country to take care of itself. The whole idea behind assistance is that people should get out of poverty and take care of themselves, and that's not happening. There are evidences that there are more poor, more hungry, more corrupt, more conflicts, more refugees. At the same time, population growth is explosive. It just gets worse and worse and worse. It doesn't help for more people to go to school if they can't manage after this school. What is the Council of State supposed to do? Is it successful if you manage to save someone from starvation if the overall picture is that even more hunger, even more refugees and even more people are driving corruption? Is it success? Or is it that the Council of State assesses the number of people instead of what is the big macro image in terms of assistance?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e647	There's something about this reasoning that really doesn't go hand in hand – that school doesn't help! It was just said that it is helping someone who is starving, when there are several who are starving – the goal is to help those who are now suffering distress. It's a doubling of people living with hunger, 275 million people. More than 100 to 150 million are driven into poverty. The consequences, if not for the world community, are more instability, more unrest, more refugees, and there is exactly the educational effort – with which this increase has been and has been granted for ten years, and for which the Prime Minister and the government have been eager – one of the most important pillars to counteract what it sounds to be so deeply concerned by the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e652	There will be follow-up questions – first Christian Tybring-Gjedde.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e657	I understand that the Council of States is talking at micro level, but if you're going to solve a problem, you have to talk at macro level, so that people can become independent of assistance. The council says that he saves 20 million people from starvation, while next time he will save 50 and then 100 – and then population growth will become explosive. Then it's not the successful assistance, it's the assistance that hurts worse. It doesn't help to sit here and say that you save so many children when there are even more children starving next year. We must give responsibility to those who rule their countries to rule the country. If you get school but can't use the knowledge you learn in school to make your own country independent of assistance, make it democratic and so you can create growth, nutrition and initiative and investment in your own country, then it's not the successful aid. In that case, we have a totally different view of what assistance actually is, and then there is no result target, and there is no governance.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e662	822 million children vaccinated are not micro-levels. It has enormous consequences, positive consequences. And when we give millions of children education, it's one of the most important things we do, just to enable countries to own their own development, along with other important assistance. When we have started Tax on Development, Work Against Corruption and Against Illegal Capital Flows, we know that aid is only a small part of what is needed to achieve sustainability goals by 2030, but it is an important part. It is not least a very important part because there are funding flows reaching the most vulnerable in the poorest countries. There are no other funding flows that reach in the same way, it has shown us the pandemic, and thus the aid is relatively just becoming more important. If there's something that's shown us in the last few months, it's that the world's connected. The pandemic has shown us that the international cooperation that we now have, and have strengthened, also has an impact on us. Yes, it is about solidarity, but it is also a significant self-interest in it when we see how intertwined we actually are. It is surprising that the representative has not understood.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e670	Christian Tybring-Gjedde – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e675	I'm recording that population growth is exploding, and that's a result of something, too. But I'm going to bring up an additional question about a slightly different topic. TV 2 reports that Johann Olav Koss has received a million salary from the aid organisation Right To Play four years after he left as a manager. He should have received 4 million. kr during the period. Norway has contributed 500 million. kr to Right To Play over the aid budget. And Koss is not alone in getting paid well in the aid industry. In the past, the head of the Refugee Aid, Jan Egeland, had an annual salary of 1.3 million. in 2017, a salary that places Aegean among the most highly paid in the public sector and that draws its salary from the taxpayers. What does the Council of State think that heads of the aid industry have so high wages, and will he set a framework for the management salaries of the industry? I would like to know whether the Minister for Assistance keeps track of how many employees the various aid organisations have, how much of the aid budget goes to pay and travel, and how much goes to what is to be done with the organisation's mandate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e686	First, I just want to say that we have been confirmed that none of the Norwegian aid has gone to the high remuneration of Koss, as was pointed out here by the representative. It is true that Norad actually assesses management salaries in the context of the application procedure, and the majority of Norwegian beneficiaries have moderate salary levels. It's been a nearly annual review of it. The representative mentions some single examples, and we have a good overview of that. So it is that it will be able to show up individual things, as it has done now, and then I am very happy to confirm that none of the aids have gone to it. With regard to the specific issues that have been raised in the media lately, I can assure the representative that Norad will investigate them and follow them closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e695	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e700	The Minister of Local Affairs will have the opportunity to come up again! Since the introduction of the government and the Municipal Reform of the Advance Party in 2015, the number of employees in the municipal bureaucracy has increased by over 5,000, to 63,500 in 2019. The figures from the Statistical Centre show that merged municipalities have a significantly higher growth of bureaucrats than those municipalities that have not merged. It's paid over 1.4 billion. SEK to cover non-recurring costs, and 200 million has been paid in addition. infrastructural measures – money that could have been used for better services for everyone. It confirms a lot of what we in the Center Party have said, namely that centralisation and municipal mergers lead to more bureaucracy and not better services near people. The government keeps reminding us of all the economies of scale that they think merges bring, but they rarely talk about small business advantages and not about economies of scale. After all, bureaucratism is one of the disadvantages. The intermediate level is esthetic. The communication department and the whole apparatus to provide services to increasingly large management groups do the same. Then we haven't even started talking about the consulting expenses, which shoot in the weather in a way that we've never seen in public Norway before. There is now a consultingbonanza in Norway, and one of the biggest drivers behind this is the government’s convergence agenda, whether it be the municipal reform, the least equally failed regional reform or other centralisation reforms. The right decided this weekend to continue the municipal reform, despite the obvious disadvantages and even though there is great resistance to this. My question is: can the municipalities and local politicians and residents expect a local government minister from the Right to continue the municipal reform, if necessary by coercion, with the disadvantages it brings?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e711	This is a question that we have now addressed through the last two ordinary question hours here in the house, where I have answered in detail questions about this from a number of Central Party representatives. But let me take up some of the claims that the representative makes in his post. It is not true that the increase in bureaucracy has been the largest in merged municipalities, because the statistics to which the representative refers go until 2019. The Municipal Reform entered into force on 1 January 2020. It also shows that the largest growth in bureaucracy is in large cities run by red-green parties. So I don't know, but it's possible that the representative should hire some consultants to go through those numbers separately, so that we get an even more accurate answer. With regard to the municipal reform, I am concerned that we should not look back at the preferred municipal structure of the Centre Party, which saw the light of day in 1965, because we have to look forward to providing the citizens with the services they expect, deserve and have requirements. The most important thing is not how we organize ourselves, but how we organize ourselves in such a way that we can deliver good services to our citizens. We know that 90 pst. of the most diversified municipalities in the country report that they are unable to obtain the skills they need in order to fill important jobs. 67 pst. by the enterprises in the same municipalities reporting the same. These are challenges that we have to solve. But I hear no answer from the Center Party on how to solve these challenges, other than looking back and hoping for things to go over. But everything wasn't better before – before is a time that we never get back, and the sooner the Senterpartie admits it, the better it gets, I think, for Norwegian municipalities, who can look forward instead of looking back.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e720	I record that the Council of State would not respond to whether he wants to use force or not to continue the municipal reform. When the government of Solberg launched its reform, the voluntary decision of 1995 was still in force. It was supposed to be a real volunteer for the municipalities that participated in processes. Nevertheless, this government has used a number of more or less dubious economic carrots, which I was in, among other things. 1.4 B.C.E. kr, and when it does not work, it is overrun that has been the most important tool for pushing through the top-level performance project. The majority has taken a decision that the income system allocating money to municipalities and counties should not be used to provoke aggregations. These are very many municipal politicians who are not familiar with them, and the budget surveys show that more and more budgets are becoming increasingly demanding. My question is therefore: does the Council of State think that the system that distributes money to the municipalities provides the small and medium-sized economic space for providing good services to people, recruiting the right skills, or favoring the system to the largest municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e729	The income system for municipalities is something we now have under assessment. We have set up an income system selection to look at the whole of the income system to ensure that we have an income system that meets the needs that municipalities actually have, and reflect on the costs of providing the statutory services that they are to provide. I have not planned to advance that work, but I still want to say that the purpose of the income system is to ensure that it is neutral, and that all municipalities can provide the services they are to provide. Then we also have to compensate for something, especially the smallest municipalities with the largest distances that get some small operating disadvantages. It's being compensated in the system today. The representative asked me questions about the municipal reform, and we of course use volunteering, which is the very best thing, when it comes to new municipal mergers. I see that there's a lot of movement in the Center Party in many places in the country, where you want to get together locally because you see that it's more forward-looking. I hope the representative can listen and learn from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e736	There will be follow-up questions – first Willfred Nordlund.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e741	I record that it is claimed that the income system is now to be revised and looked at, but it is making changes every year, completely independent of the larger review that is now announced. Neither the changes made by municipalities nor the regional reform to well-established borders can be said to be highly professionally anchored, whether or not to base the various consultant reports that I spoke about initially, and these are often strongly criticised. The result of the reforms implemented by the government is that there have been many solutions around that are not wanted and that have been very unfortunate and that have taken away the focus from providing good and equivalent services – it was probably the words used by the Council of State. The coercion of Troms and Finnmark is one such example, and the rarity of the municipality of Kinn is another. I hear that the Council of State believes that the municipal reform must continue, that voluntary action should be taken, but that has also been stated in the Right earlier. The question is: how many municipalities and how many inhabitants must each of the new municipalities of the Right have before the council and government are satisfied?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e750	It must be up to each municipality to find out who you are going to join, and how many municipalities it will be together is not up to me to have an opinion about. But that there should be fewer municipalities, I mean. It is simply because the world has changed since 1965, and the municipalities should cooperate more closely, including through community mergers, in order to provide good services to their citizens. In some places there may be alternatives to community mergers that may be equally topical. We now see that some municipalities in Finnmark have merged on a clear functional division of tasks between the local authorities in a very comprehensive form of inter-municipal cooperation. It may be an alternative, but I still think that the very best thing is to get together. But why have they done this? Well, precisely because they have problems recruiting skills, to maintain good professional environments that make it attractive for young people to move there and work there, but also to be able to provide the services that people expect and deserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e756	Heidi Greni – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e761	The government has set down two selections to look at district policy, including: the so-called Demography Committee, chaired by former Right-wing State Council Victor Norman. The selection concludes that community consolidation is not the answer to the demographic challenge in the district, rather the opposite. The advantage of the fact that there are several municipalities that cultivate their peculiarity, that have their own identity, and that make it a diversity of offerings in a region, will be a prerequisite for us to be able to reverse the trend of centralisation. Victor Norman has confirmed this in several rounds and in several different forums. How has the government intended to deal with the conclusions of this committee of experts? Or is it that the government believes that former Right-State Council Victor Norman is on a tour?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e768	I'm all because you grow your own peculiarity, and you can do that whether you meet with the neighbouring municipality or not. As the former rapporteur of the Central Party in Andebu said so well: Andebu will continue to be Andebu, even though we are now part of Sandefjord. I think that's an important perspective to take with me. I'm not busy counting the number of town halls, I'm busy counting how many teachers you have, how many nurses you have, and how good care for the elderly is. It must be much more important than how many town halls there are in the municipality. And if your peculiarity is that you're not able to recruit the staff you actually need to be able to provide good services to the inhabitants, if your peculiarity is that you're suffering from relocation and are unable to build up under a viable community, maybe the time has come to think new, as I luckily see that many Central Party rapporteurs around the country are doing. But here, the center part is more concerned with criticizing the government than listening to its own people, who have their shoes on and know where it prints, and they see that something needs to be done here. For example, I met. The central party rapporteur in Lyngen, who was quite clear that there should be many municipal mergers in that part of Troms and Finnmark in which he lives. Other Central Party rapporteurs are saying exactly the same thing. So here, luckily, something happens locally, but it also has to be something central.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e777	The oral question procedure is now over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e791	There are no changes to the configured question list.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e799	‘In the course of the police report of 25 February, the majority of the Grand Council decided to ask the government to ‘reopen the arrests where the closures of the police reform have led to a disproportionate amount of time being spent by the police today on the transport of prisoners’. Will the government reopen the arrest in Sandvika?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e806	The representative of Gielsvik refers to the request decision of the Stortinget in connection with the examination of the police report in February this year. The Committee’s attitude to the notification states that ‘there has been a clear savings potential in the use of arrests-related resources’. This is combined with a new arrest warrant that is why we have fewer police arrests than before, with 12 central arrests, one in each police district. It is important to think completely about the use of police resources. In fact, with the new and clearer requirements for police arrests laid down in 2018, one police arrest requires as large a crew as the day-to-day operation of one police patrol. That is also the basis for the balance that police officers have to make. The key is just the term ‘disproportionate’. How do we use resources best and for the greatest benefit to the local population? Is it by saving some transport missions of arrestees, or is it on the road with another patrol all day? This balance may be more demanding in the districts than in the central districts. That is why we also have a practical solution when it is needed. The old local arrests may be opened temporarily for up to four hours — which is used and practical in connection with major events or events. With regard to the representative's specific questions about the reopening of the arrest in Sandvika, it is true that if the police officer in Oslo wants to have a arrest in Sandvika, it is up to the chief of police to decide. I am concerned that it is the police chief who has to make an assessment of what is ‘disproportionate’ and who then disposes of the resources. Then I'll add that I'm myself living in the West Police District, and for most of us, it's not nearly two miles very long. But it is not my assessment that is taken into account. It is the police professional judgements that the police district is going to make that decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e827	One thing is the geographical distance that has become longer also in Asker and Bærum, by one having to travel to Oslo. It's not just the geographic distance, but it's the time that a person uses in total. While a former may have spent up to a maximum of half an hour in bringing in arrests, when one had the arrest in Sandvika, it's now about two and a half hours for each mission. This leads to a binding up of police resources, which often means that a person has a less present police and less present patrol in that area. To what is disproportionate: it's not just a responsibility for the police chief. It is a political responsibility to assess what is disproportionate time use associated with this, and a majority of Stortinget just pointed out the example of Sandvika in their comments. Will the Council of State go into and assess the situation in Sandvika based on the specific situation and the comments of the Stortinge in connection with the police communication?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e834	If the representative now asks whether I will politically decide where and how to build arrests, I do not perceive that it was Storting's decision. I perceive that the Storting believes that there should be a police evaluation of how the resources are best used, and that where there was disproportionate use of resources due to long distances or a lot of time associated with arresting transport, the chief of police can make a different assessment. Of course, the chief of police can do that. I think we have to decide who's the police chief, and who's not. We're going to put the framework conditions. We need expectations. We're going to achieve goals politically, but I think it's up to the police officer in Oslo to assess whether the time spent on transport missions is reasonable, given the resource it will be to have a 24-hour arrest in Sandvika. There are very strict demands on how an arrest should be. That's why it requires a lot of resources. For this reason, there has to be a police evaluation of how these resources are used.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e841	What Stortinget made concrete decisions about was to ask the government to reopen arrests where closures during the police reform have led to a disproportionate amount of time being spent by the police today on the transport of prisoners. It was a request decision from the Stortinget and a request to the government. According to what the Council of State now says, the Council of State considers that there are no examples in Norway of disproportionately long time use associated with arrests. Does this mean that the government does not see the need to reopen any arrests in the light of the request decision made by the Storting? Is that the decision just going to be put in a drawer? Will not the government itself be actively involved in this, and will centralisation as a result of the police reform be maintained and, if necessary, further strengthened?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e846	It will be especially important to talk about centralization when the example that comes is a demand for a arrest in Sandvika, just under two miles away from Greenland, where you have the Central Penalty. For most of us in other parts of the country, it's going to be very special, and it's going to be a Center Party talking on automatics. I did not say that it would not be possible to open arrests. I said it was a police evaluation of resource use. I think it's the police chief who's going to assess whether you're going to have a police patrol or a police arrest. Then it is possible that the representative disagrees with that. We see that the Centre Party in its new enlargement programme is committed to giving greater responsibility and influence to local police officers in determining staffing and resource allocations based on local analyses and priorities. I think it's very well said, but they don't live up to the real life where you want to sit in the Storting and decide what's politically disproportionate use of the resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e856	‘There are concerns about the safety that cross-subsidies cannot take place between the companies Track drift AS and Track operation Project AS. Can the Council of State assure the Government that safe procedures are in place to prevent any cross-subsidy when Track AS and Track Operations Project AS deliver offers of renewal and new construction projects to the railway sector and, in the event that they are presented and made available to them, can it ensure that industry and taxpayers are in control?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e863	I thank you for a good question, and I am concerned that competition in the railway sector will contribute to the smooth functioning and robust supply markets. In order to achieve this, it is important that competition for operation and maintenance is conducted on a level playing field and is highly reliable in the market. The Ministry has therefore held several meetings on the competition exposure with both Bane NOR, Track operation and the industry. I perceive that the industry is concerned that Track operation does not clearly distinguish between project work that is linked to the market competition of Track operation Project and the activities Track operation performs after a direct purchase agreement with Bane NOR. The direct purchase agreement between Bane NOR and Tram drift is based on an undertaking that the contract will meet the requirements of the State aid rules. Following the agreement, Bane NOR has the right to point out an independent authorised representative who must have access to the information necessary, inter alia, for the purposes of this Agreement. to be able to verify that there is no cross-subsidisation. Path NOR will start the first check on 21 May. Track operation and Track operation Projects are established as two different companies to ensure a clear organisational and accounting separation between direct and competitive activities. The company has developed procedures and documents to ensure an arm's length pricing between the company. The documents are based on the OECD principle of internal pricing and are subject to audit. The internal pricing documents between Track Operation and Track Operation Project are not public. The reason why they contain business-sensitive information. I expect that Track operation has taken advantage of best practices when designing the procedures to prevent cross-subsidies. I also expect Track operation to be conscious when it falls under the responsibility of a monopolist who is to be gradually outsourced to competition. Track operations are responsible for acting transparently towards the other market players while at the same time adapting to a competitive environment. There may be a required balance sheet process that must have a high degree of attention from the board of directors and the company’s management. Cross-subsidies are illegal and shall not occur. Neither I nor any other state council can assure us that state-owned companies comply at any time with laws and regulations, but it must be assumed that they do so. It is the responsibility of the Management Board to carry out control functions towards the company. It is, however, of interest in track operation to enforce the legislation, not to be excluded from future competition. So the answer to the question is that I feel that a good job has been done to ensure that exactly the representative Hoksrud is concerned about, that there should be no cross-subsidy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e878	Thanks to the Council of State, I realized that he was quite clear and clear at least on the intention here. I know that there has been a dialogue between the industry, the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Industry and Bane NOR around this very thing with cross-subsidisation and the danger with it. The feedback and perception of industry associations is that they feel that there is a lot of uncertainty about this and that there are major problems. Then the question is whether it is natural that there is secrecy around public companies – the Council of State said it was right to keep secret. It should be believed that practices to avoid cross-subsidisation should be public information, and that at least one could respond to who is responsible – to make sure that this is done in a good way. I heard the council said that Bane NOR was going to do something about it now, but you might have to be even more objective to make sure about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e883	We're concerned that we can have it transparent and open, we should have it open. But it is clear that it is a rather special situation that more and more projects will be put out to competition, while Track operation has some projects on which they have direct contracts. They will also be put out to competition at one stage, so it is a transitional phase, but it is also in the interest of Track to deal with this legislation. If they do not, they will not be allowed to be part of future competitions. I feel that what the representative is doing is doing a pretty good job. But it is important to have awareness of this – that of course enough the department has it, and that the board has it – because we want this to be a success in the best possible way. I feel that there's a routine to follow up on this, but it's important that we have consciousness around it continuously in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e888	Thanks to the Council of State for being so clear on this, it makes me a little calm, because it is important to be clear on exactly the transparency and the security that there is no cross-subsidy. One of the challenges here is how these two companies are organised — both reporting to the same employees. Then you can quickly ask questions about this. You also have to look at tender calls that have been, there is a very big difference between what the company delivers, versus the competitor, and you ask questions about how you can do this – that there are not things that make it cross-subsidy between the companies. It's something I'm concerned about, and as the Council of State will notice, the representative will follow up if you don't see it. And then I'm concerned that there's going to be a company that's going to be allowed to compete. We want competition and believe that it is good for private individuals to be allowed to compete with this self-employed company.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e893	I agree with Mr Hoksrud. We're forced to follow this closely. And then it's complicated, it's balance. We had this on the road, we see it has worked better and better there, but it was also a transitional phase, and it is a market that goes from being quite closed to becoming more and more open. As I said, we want to be as transparent as possible, keeping it as open as possible. This is a company that should be allowed to compete, we can't give all the information to competing parties either. But we have been committed to having a good dialogue with both the industry and the market, which is positive about this. I think that when we have a good piece of garden, this is going to be positive. There is also a business transfer in part of the contracts, which I also think is natural, at least in a start-up phase, and then it will be assessed for each offer that comes out.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e903	‘The government does not come up with any new study places or large enough measures to remedy the tough situation of many students. A lot of students are mentally struggling. Over time, this may affect study progression and completion of studies. Student volunteering and student communities are important meeting places. Will the Council of State do more to prevent and ensure good health for the students, or is the lack of study places in the revised national budget a signal that the government does not believe that more should study higher education this autumn?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e910	"Before the pandemic, I was tired of being with people. Now it's to be with people all I want." This quote comes from a student who was interviewed about life under the corona. The quotation is a good picture of the contrast between life before and under this pandemic. Many social and professional meeting places have been lost in the last year. Many students have spent a lot of time alone on their student furniture. We've seen that in several studies. Not least the figures from the SHOT survey showed this. Too many people have mental health problems and difficult thoughts — and too few are seeking help. It's not hard to understand that the students have become less motivated, and that more people are lonely during the coronary apathy. I'm concerned about the consequences of the Korona both in the short and long term. That is why I have asked the institutions to follow up the students better, while at the same time giving us money to straighten out social and professional offers. The government has presented a student package such as: contains 200 million. SEK to hire students to follow up other students professionally and socially, SEK 30 million. D to student partnerships to strengthen the social lowthreshold provision of students and 10 million. kr to strengthen mental health. We have also strengthened student relationships by another 20 million. Now kr. This year, the Education Commitment is continuing with a total of about 2.8 billion. kr. Among other things, it continues and escalates with the admission of new coal – 4000 new higher education places and 1,600 places at the vocational schools. The industry programmes shall be continued. In the RNB, there was money for a lift of aviation skills. The funds for decentralised and flexible education will be increased by a further 45,7 million. kr in the RNB. The overall educational commitment could provide an estimated 80 000 people with more education and skills. Then it's worth remembering the Biggest that the total capacity of higher education has increased considerably during this government. Universities and higher education have increased by over 13 billion. kr from 2013 to 2021. More than 20,000 higher education students met for the start of their studies in the autumn of 2020 than in 2013. The Korona crisis has led to high unemployment and many permissiveness. Those who stood first in the permitting queue were people with low or no formal education. Therefore, the government has been committed to increasing the capacity of education at all levels. The educational commitment has extended the capacity of higher education, of specialised schools, colleges and universities and of measures of competence so that many have received and continue to have the possibility of education and training for a demanding period of time. I believe that these are powerful measures that show that this government is facilitating more people to take training and gain a higher level of competence in this autumn as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e935	It's just the long-term effect of the pandemic that gives cause for concern, which way it's talking about. To VG, head of the Academy, Kari Sollien, May 11th, said: ‘Many now apply to higher education because there is a high level of unemployment and a weak labour market. It is disappointing that the government does not add up to more places of study in the autumn.» Neither the students nor the trade unions welcome the government's revised budget proposals. There is a broad political consensus that more people should study and that capacity in the education sector needs to be increased in line with needs. What, then, is the reason why the government does not give priority to places of study to meet the search, and what is the Council's response to the many thousands of applicants who have to prepare to refuse the application for a place of study this summer?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e949	Now it's a while since the representative's party has been in government, but it can happen again. It's rarely jubilant when a government provides budgets or alternative budgets, because what you're busy about is, of course, what you want more of, of what's suggested. But what we did in the autumn of 2020 was to increase the number of places of study quite quickly. That's because the pandemic hit from mid-April, and that means it was in the RNB you did it. But that's not an ideal way to escalate the number of study places. It means very little predictability, it means a difficult transition for institutions in a short time. That's why we already announced in the budget for 2021 that in the autumn of 2021 there will be a new coal with 4,000 higher education places and 1,600 post-secondary education places. It has given the institutions time, in a difficult time, to rig and get these up. So I mean that we take in 20,000 more students this fall than what we did when we came to power, shows that there are also more places to study. But there are more applicants than there are places – there will be enough of them in the autumn of 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e954	The centre party was supposed, among other things, to asked for more places of study in specialised schools, which Stortinget has also adopted and ordered. But I want to dig a little bit into this about the students' health and well-being study, which shows that 54 pst. of the students who responded, experiencing solitude. Several have known of serious mental health problems and have considered taking their own lives! Norwegian student organisation, NSO, request student volunteering and follow-up measures for the Kjøs Committee, because it has not been provided by the government. The head of the NSO, Andreas Trohjell, several student leaders, mental health professionals and professors have gone out and criticized the frames of the Kjøs Committee to provide a good knowledge base for the follow-up of students' mental health. It was great when Kjøs said to VG on 30 April that the students are not mentally ill, but have a boring everyday life. How are students who sit and count on the buttons for further studies or to start studying elsewhere in the country to know that they are being put on and given security, if the government does not express any greater confidence in the future and bet on the students?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e965	I hope we can give it the impression, among other things. in the summit that the Minister of Health and I will organise jointly on Wednesday in a week, with the students, with the institutions, and where Kjøs himself will participate, to look at what we can do in the short term, but also in the longer term. I agree with the representative that one thing is the corona pandemic itself, I think the most ugly numbers we'll see go down when you open up more. That is why we have also pushed young people into the vaccine queue, precisely to make the start of the study more normal. But we brought with us SHOT studies from before the pandemic that showed that many young people did too. That is why we have also granted money, for example. for more jobs at lowthreshold, but also 10 million. kr to renovate the health-care provision of interconnections. Once we have had contact with them before RNB, for example, their wish has been to be allowed to spend the money they have received, also on the harvest holiday. Of course, they should be allowed to do that, because they have the resources, they lack the hands. That's why we're going to give them the opportunity to hire students in the fall of 2021, with the money they've received. Then we follow this development.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e975	‘By decision on zero emissions from tourism ships and ferries, investments include: in environmental technologies, port and destination Flanders cannot be realised, as a result of uncertain links to future traffic and the fact that financing solutions are not established. Since the order for 2026 starts in November this year, who can order cruise routes to Flåm in 2026 in line with the decision to raise a stake. 691 of the 2020-2021 session, and what is the meaning of the ‘[...] State ensures the establishment of shore-side electricity in Flanders as planned by 2022’?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e982	Norway has a special responsibility to manage the world heritage in a long-term and sustainable perspective. Therefore, requirements for ships in the World Heritage fjords were introduced in 2019 to apprehend people's health, environment and the important heritage status of these areas. The requirements, which were thoroughly settled by the Maritime Directorate in contact with, among others. the cruise industry also includes requirements for emissions of NOx which are gradually stepped up to the strictest requirement by 2025, the so-called Tier III requirement. So in 2018, the Stortinget takes a call for zero emissions from cruise traffic and ferries in the World Heritage fjords, and it was to be implemented as soon as it was technically possible to implement, by 2026. Several rounds were carried out with reports on the impact of the collapse decision. The distributions have shown that there is a need for significant technology development and the development of the necessary infrastructures on land. We then had this information, about two months ago, to deal with a proposal for a representative and to take new appeal decisions in connection with it, Decisions 690 and 691. In Decision 690, the Stortinget Government asks: ‘contribute to the implementation of actions initiated by local and regional authorities, which reduce emissions into world heritage.’ And on the other hand, in Decision 691: ‘Propose measures to ensure world heritage as a port of call for cruise boats after 2026, inter alia by ensuring the establishment of shore-side electricity in Flanders as planned by 2022.’ I understand that the Stortinget, with its new decisions, is now giving a signal to find solutions for still having cruise access to the World Heritage fjords after 2026, including the establishment of shores in Flanders. Of course, the government will follow up the Storting decisions and come back within a reasonable time. The government is busy finding good solutions in close dialogue with the local actors. We have received more input from business actors, communities and civil society both before the summer of last year and after the new decisions of the Stortinget. All of that is part of the basis that we have. Of course, it is urgent to put in place a solution to secure calls to the World Heritage fjords after 2026. That's what we're gonna do. At the same time, this is such a complicated matter that it is necessary to base our decisions on a good professional basis and, not least, good dialogue with those to whom it applies. We will, and then we will return quickly to Stortinget, clarifying the follow-up to the two appeal decisions that were made a few months ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e1001	This was, with respect to reporting, no answer. The council says he's coming back, but now people have to know when time is coming back, because now value estimates for shore-side electricity would be positive today if it wasn't for specific legislation and zero emission decisions. There are decisions taken against professional advice and legislation not recommended by market surveillance for the rest of the country. I want to know exactly how the state will ensure the establishment of shore-side electricity in Flåm, and whether one will do so that it is clear in 2022. However, before November of this year, one must have in place the legislation that may open up for cruise traffic, as one starts to order in November just before 2026. It is too late to come back «within reasonable time». It has to happen now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e1006	Now it is such that the call decision was the Storting that did, a very short time ago. We're always following up running the call decisions the Storing is doing, and we're doing it as fast as we can. Then it should be said that the Storting is making more and more appeal decisions, so it is clear that it takes time to get things followed up, but I promise that we will implement them quickly. We're going to come back quickly to the Storing with the follow-up to the decisions it's going to have. And then I'm going to add that when it relates to land currents in concrete terms, we don't have a situation in which we start at scratch, because we have good support programs for the establishment of land currents today that give running allocations. The last two weeks ago, support was received from the state to a number of nationwide power plants around it. in Florø, so it's not safe that we don't have an active ingredient today. But there is no doubt that the Stortinge focuses particularly on Flåm and has asked us to make sure that land-stressing is established there from 2022. Of course, we'll follow up that call decision as soon as we can.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e1013	Governments called the Tier regulation in their main response. In 2022, Tier II enters, which is a problem for cargo ships and cruises in the oceans. The traffic in Fåm and Geiranger will then fall by 25 pst, and it is stipulated that it will fall by up to 80 pst. in 2025, when the Tier III requirement comes. It is also rumored that the department will ignore cargo boats, but retains the requirement as Tier set, to cruise ships. This will include, inter alia: The traffic will benefit the local government, Eid, who will have a strong increase – perhaps over 100 pst. increase in cruise passengers. Would it have any meaning for CO 2 emissions in the world if they went to Flanders or to Eid?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e1021	We have a range of cruise destinations all around the coast. I thought the clues to the question are that, given a decision that was taken some years ago, there will be an increase in traffic to the country from which I come, not quite the home of this debate. But I suppose that the representative, like me and the majority of the population, is busy that the fjords that have a special status, that is, our World Heritage fjords, both the Near Island fjord and the Geiranger fjord, are also fjords we have to make sure to focus especially on, for example. to value the world heritage values. This is part of that work. It's probably not just rumors that we're working on different solutions for Tier III. We've given a mission to the Maritime Directorate to give us some options for how it's possible to find flexible solutions to the problems that have been addressed here, and we've got suggestions from the Maritime Directorate around it. We now have a follow-up in the department and hope to come up with a quick clarification on these questions as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e1028	Then your case no. 2 o'clock.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-19.ana.ud329e1042	There is no record available. This way, the map is ready for processing today. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
