ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e74	For the sake of infection prevention, the President proposes that the public gallery be closed during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative of Willfred Nordlund, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. Election of the president of the set
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e87	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today and tomorrow – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Heidi Greni. – Other proposals are not available, and Heidi Greni is unanimously elected president of today’s and tomorrow’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e100	Propositions will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e120	At the request of the Finance Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, there will be a reply to replies from members of the government, and those who have to draw on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e127	The case is a Document 8 proposal from the Progress Party, which is about abolishing all property taxes by 2024. All parts of Stortinget, with the exception of the Progress Party, are behind the setting of not supporting the abolition of all property taxes by 2024. The property tax is a municipal tax and belongs to the municipal self-government. It is up to the local government to decide whether or not to print a property tax. Of the 356 municipalities in the country, 321 municipalities print property tax today. This tax is also not coordinated with the income system, and too many municipalities are an important source of income. In 2020, this amount was 14.8 billion. kr. About half came from residential and leisure properties. The proposal to remove the right to collect property taxes lacks consistency and has not been heard. The arguments put forward mainly relate to the removal of property taxes on residential and recreational property, while the proposal is the elimination of all property taxes from 2024. The Council of State points out in the letter to the Committee that the OECD states that the taxation of dwellings is favourable in Norway and that the abolition of property tax can have significant economic consequences for individual municipalities, especially for hydropower municipalities and the host municipalities of petroleum plants. The Solberg government has restricted its ability to print property taxes in recent years. As of 2019, property taxes on works and use have been agreed to expire over seven years and the maximum rate of housing and recreational property has been reduced from 7 to 4 per million. As of 2014, municipalities can use the wealth base, the country's housing values, by valuation, and thus many of the problems that proposers point to will all be addressed. Where the government and the Progress Party draw a picture of a historically good economy in the municipal sector, the Labour Party will point out that growth has not been large enough to enable municipalities to fulfil all the tasks they are charged with. Many new municipalities, therefore, have taken advantage of property taxes. The best way to reduce the tax on property is just a strong, good and prosperous local economy. The Solberg Government and the Progress Party define good municipal economy depending on whether the municipalities are on the ROBEK list or not, but whether the municipal economy is good or bad depends on whether the municipalities can solve their welfare tasks in a satisfactory way or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e142	With this government, we have cut taxes and taxes by a total of 34 billion. kr, compared to 2013. We will continue to make more changes that better facilitate more creation and include more. In recent years, the size has taken a number of steps to limit property taxes and make them less harmful to Norwegian business. In 2019, we began, among others. the phasing out of property taxes on machinery, the so-called machine tax. We have also taken action to improve the valuation and the maximum rate of residential property, so that it will be more accurate and fairer. At the same time, the government has compensated the municipal sector, and under this government the municipalities have consistently had a good real growth. We see that the free income has been reinforced by an estimated 35 billion. kr from 2013 to 2019, and on in 2020 and 2021. In addition, in the last year, the number of municipalities in ROBEK has been very low and historically low since the register was established. The property tax is a municipal tax, and it belongs to municipal autonomy. It is important for the Right that municipalities have this autonomy to make individual adjustments, because the municipality itself knows the local needs best. For many municipalities, especially along the coast, property taxes are particularly important for the collection of income from water and wind installations and for petroleum. The liquidation of the entire property tax will therefore have major consequences for them. I would also like to remind you that both the OECD and the IMF have pointed out that the taxation of housing is already favourable in Norway and below the average for comparable countries. As the Minister of Finance has pointed out in his letter to the Stortinget, Right considers that any changes in property tax must be seen in the context of the financing of the municipal sector as a whole and taken into account in budgetary context, not in a Document 8. In this context, the Right does not end up with this proposal at this stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e155	The left-hand side loves taxes that are completely independent of people's ability to pay taxes. The left side wants sky-high one-time charges and the cheapest fuel possible, although there are often families in District Norway with poor advice that needs the car the most. The left-hand side will have a sky-high wealth tax, whether the job is in surplus or in deficit. The left-hand side will have sky-high property taxes regardless of how much debt you have or how much income you have. The principle of justice and taxation by ability has long since been thrown overboard by the left-hand side. I am not against the fact that a company pays a small proportion of its profits in corporation tax, or that a worker pays a small proportion of its wages and salaries in income taxes. I am also not in principle against the fact that a person pays VAT on things a buyer. However, property tax is as far away from fair taxation as you can get. Property taxes are equally large regardless of whether there is a mortgage on the dwelling or not, and property taxes are therefore particularly severe for high-loan families. The property tax is independent of the income of people, and the property tax therefore affects lone minimum pensioners with large houses that have multiplied their value after they moved in. Some are forced to leave their childhood home. This is not fair, and it violates the principle of taxation based on the ability to pay taxes. Norwegian municipalities have record money, and many have high profits without property taxes, for example. Oslo. Never before has the local economy been better. Nevertheless, rapporteurs from the Centre Party, the Workers' Party and SV call for increasingly higher taxes on property. Norwegian municipalities do not need property taxes. This is primarily about greedy politicians. I am proud of everything the Advance Party has done so far. We've had an impact on reducing the maximum property tax rate from 7 to 4 per million and for the valuation to be no higher than 70 pst. of market value. Unfortunately, a number of Norwegian municipalities have actively sabotaged this tax relief that would benefit most people. It's disappointing to see how Greek it's going to be. Finally, I have a little heart attack. Many people are happy to watch movies, but I wish Raymond Johansen and his girlfriends had not seen the film about Robin Hood and through it got the sheriff of Nottingham as his great role model. I would like to make a few suggestions to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e174	Morten Ørsal Johansen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e179	It's fascinating to hear the Progress Party talk about taxes according to ability. After the Progress Party has been in government, there have never been higher charges in Norway. Tolls have never been higher in Norway. And there's never been a higher property tax in Norway. While those who already have the most have big tax cuts. In 2013, it was 8.9 billion. SEK in property tax in Norway, in 2019 it was 14.7 billion. So kr, an increase of almost 6 billion. kr. There was an increase that occurred by several municipalities introducing property taxes or increasing property taxes — municipalities of different political colours. In many municipalities, in most municipalities, it is not introduced with an easy heart, but because one is in a demanding choice between whether to introduce property taxes or to have to cut off services. It's the reality around in Norway. This balance is important for municipal politicians to continue to have the opportunity to do so in the future. Therefore, the Central Party disagrees with the restriction or, as proposed by the Advance Party, with the possibility of issuing property taxes. So the proposal is to eliminate property taxes in the course of two fiscal years. Of course, this is neither a wise nor sensible proposal on the part of the Progress Party. I also noticed the answer from the Council of State. He pointed out that property tax revenues are important sources of income for many municipalities, including: for a good part of the hydro-electric power-communities and the host municipalities for petroleum installations. Well, then, the Council of State should also look more closely at the consequences of changes in property tax related to works and use for the municipalities that were said to be compensated, but the reality is that they have lost large revenues. That's the reality. Although the State is the one with the largest economic backbone in practice, today's majority, consisting of the government parties and the supporting party Progress Party, is not willing to stand up for the municipalities, so that they have sufficient finances. This is also why property taxes are increasing in municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e190	A few weeks ago, Mr. Morten Ørsal Johansen held an alternance post from the pulpit because SV proposes to prevent municipalities from forming national tax havens through cuts in the wealth tax. At that time, the Progress Party was concerned about municipal autonomy, that they should not be allowed to decide for themselves. However, that concern is not deep, for today we are dealing with a proposal from the Progress Party that we should remove one, ensure the ability of municipalities to increase their own income – the only tax that local government can decide whether to introduce or not, and that does not affect the income balancing system or distribution to a significant extent elsewhere in Norway. And it's just the local government that in 321 of 356 municipalities, property taxes are necessary to finance welfare services, maintenance and infrastructure in its municipality. These local governments and the respective politicians are all responsible in each local elections. If the population thinks it was unwise to introduce that tax, that they would rather deprioritise or cut some services, they can vote in the Progress Party locally. In Oslo, SV has 14.7 pst at the last measurement. and the Progress Party has 4.7 pst. – despite the fact that SV will impose property taxes. So when the Progress Party sees that people don't like what they stand for, they will force the people through the Biggest. The reality is that the property tax has reached a historically high level under the government of Solberg and under former Minister of Finance, Siv Jensen. It is primarily an expression that the income of the State and the Community is not sufficient to cover the tasks of the municipalities. If the Progress Party had a majority, there would be mass redundancies of health professionals, nurses and employees in schools and kindergartens around the country. 14.8 B.C.E. Total income – there is a lot of well-being, a lot of organisation for new business in municipalities, a lot of health and care, a lot of nursing homes and kindergartens around the country. If we also add at the top that the Progress Party will now eliminate the entire property tax, which is known to have a municipal share, then the municipalities will have more than 13 billion. kr less. I have to say it is fresh from the Progress Party to go to the elections to drain the country's municipalities financially, but therefore they are all alone in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e201	We in the Left do not support this proposal by the Progress Party either. We have now helped reduce the maximum rate of residence and leisure properties in municipalities from 7 to 4 per million in recent years, but basic property tax for the Left is part of local autonomy, and we have local politicians who are both in favour of and against the imposition of property taxes. This is part of the assessment that, when one sits in a local government, one must take – in terms of both the general tax income, the expenditure of the municipality and also against other costs incurred by the inhabitants, whether it be renovation fees, water and sewerage fees and property taxes. So it's saying that the taxation of dwellings is favourable in Norway. This proposal by the Progress Party is very comprehensive in that it is not only about property taxes on residential and leisure property, but also about hydropower plants and petroleum plants. There are clearly very important revenues for many municipalities that it will be dramatic to change today. With regard to the municipal economy, we now have a historically low number of municipalities on the ROBEK list, while the free income of municipalities has increased by 35 billion. kr from 2013 until today. It also provides a backstop for the discussions that can be in the individual municipality and provides a room for action for those municipalities that do not want to reduce property taxes. They have the opportunity because they also have a state that supports the local economy. That discussion should remain within each municipality and be part of local self-government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e210	In fact, I believe that most parties in Norway, at least all parties in this room, agree that we must have taxes and that we must have some taxes. The principle of taxing by ability may be important when you have an opportunity to tax income, but taxing just because you own something, just because you've managed to save money over a long life to get a property, is completely wrong. For my part, I would say that in the municipality of Hamar, in a city where I have lived before, there are many examples of single homes that once lay in the village. Storhamar, for example, which was far from the center of the 1930s, 1940s and 1950s, where there was hardly any population; it was the most forest and soils, has become very central today. Dwellings bought there by people today who are minimum pensioners with minimal income have become enormously expensive and expensive, and you get a lot of property tax just because you own something. I have to say it is absolutely incredible to listen to the representatives from the SV and the Central Party here today. Talk about meeting yourself seagulls in the door and sitting in glasshouses and throwing stone! First, the centre party says that there have never been as many charges as under the Progress Party in the government. I don't know what the Center Party is aiming for. The inheritance fee, e.g., as the Central Party, the Workers' Party and the Socialists are very pleased with, the so-called death tax, we removed as soon as we entered the government. I would like to remind you that it was Social-Democrat Göran Persson who made sure that it was removed in Sweden. It says a little about the Center Party, the Workers' Party and the left side of Norwegian politics. They are even far to the left of the Workers' Party in their neighbouring country Denmark and Sweden. We removed the motor tax on boat engines, the horsepower tax, and many other taxes as well, but I do not have to frame everything here. Then we have tolls. That's okay, that's -- the representative from the Central Party says there's never been so much toll. The regime built up with tolls is at least built up by the Workers' Party and the Center Party long before we came into government, and what the Advance Party has done, I'm actually very proud of. In close cooperation with the Right, Left and Christian People's Party, we have cut the bombing costs by nearly 30 pst. in relation to what was there, and the regime that was when we took over after the previous government. We removed almost 50 bomb companies, we introduced 20 pst. Discount on bomb chips, and we got 2 billion in the state budget for 2020/2021. NOK to cut tolls. It was zero before we got into government, it was zero with the Central Party in government, zero with SV and zero with the Workers' Party. As soon as the Progress Party went out of government, the focus also went on cutting down tolls, so in the proposal for NTP that the government has submitted, it's only added 750 million. kr annually to cut tolls. So that criticism of tolls we don't take too much into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e221	We all understand that there is a need to have a certain level of taxation in the country, and that is also how some municipalities could probably have had problems removing property taxes overnight. But there are also a lot of municipalities that would have done well. There are a lot of municipalities run by the red-green that take in the property tax not because they have to, but because they want to. Oslo Municipality is an example of a municipality that had done well without the property tax. And when there are claims from this pulpit that if you remove the property tax, you have to start cutting off the services offered to the residents. Too many municipalities had only needed to cut little in their own profits to remove the property tax. Then there is a clear sign that for several of the parties in this room, and especially for the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party, there is a problem if people have too much money. If people get to keep more of their own money, that's the problem, rather than that the municipality needs that money. The municipality of Oslo would have gone with over 2 billion. kr in profit even if you had cut the entire property tax, and the Municipality of Oslo has over time gone with a much larger profit than the municipality's calculation committee recommends. This is about politicians who are either unable to prioritise, who have created major economic challenges by controlling their local authorities' faults, or who are simply Greek. They will have access to the people's money, even if there is no need for it. Then we could have had a discussion about how to remove property tax in a gentle way where you had gone into deficit without it. But I'm standing here with a long list of municipalities that had managed perfectly well over time without the property tax. Then it's nice that such a large majority in this room really doesn't care about it. Our most important job is to be a hard priority and to be gentle with the people's money, but here there's a large majority who don't care much about it. You see that you could do it without, but you keep doing it the same year after year. I don't think there's much respect for the people's money. It's a little creative by the politicians. After so many years, especially in Oslo, you should have managed to do something about the unnecessary property tax you have here.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e237	I just have to follow up on the fact that previous speakers, from the SV and the Central Party, felt sorry for their rapporteurs out there. They obviously need more revenue, more tax revenue. Clearly, the main focus for SV, but unfortunately also for the Centre Party, is the need to increase income, and this is achieved only by increasing taxes or charges. You have to increase taxes and taxes for most people as well as for business. Then I recommend the representatives of the Central Party and SV to learn from one of the best municipal ministers in history, who is now sitting in this room, former municipal minister Jan Tore Sanner. Thanks to our government, if I can use that concept when we were part of the government, we turned around an objection regime that was built up over several years with, among other things. The centre party. Where farmers, entrepreneurs and other local stakeholders wanted to develop the municipality, create values, contribute to new jobs and more tax revenue, which we know is very happy about, so the red-greens said no. So no, no, no, no, no, at least 80 pst. of the cases. But with Sanner, and in particular Per-Willy Amundsen, who was Secretary of State in the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernization, we turned the no-regime into a yes-regime. I'm proud of that. I'm proud of what we got together there – the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party – that we turned a regime so that people are allowed to create values, let the municipalities create values instead of just saying no. I hope the Centre Party, SV and the left can learn a little bit from it, that in the future they will also become a little more positive to listen to the municipalities, listen to business when they want to create values, instead of just saying no and rather compensating for lost income by increasing taxes and taxes. I have experience from three different local authorities from the period before I got to Stortinget, and I don't feel sorry for any of those municipalities. Two of the municipalities are Arbeiderparti-municipalities, one is a municipal municipality. Unfortunately, they have all the property taxes, and one of the municipalities introduced property taxes after I moved there. I'm the one who incorporates the label no difference. That money just disappears in the drag sucker. I would refer to another important right-wing politician, Per-Kristian Foss, who used to be Minister of Finance. He might have had one of the best statements in Norwegian politics. It might sound a little special, but that's an incredibly good point. He said that you could give the oil fund to the municipal politicians, give the oil fund to the municipality of Norway, and they would be able to use it up too. The Norwegian local politicians, especially those from the left, may need a job in private business to learn to cut costs, to learn to prioritize and to learn to create values instead of just spending other people's money and taking taxes and taxes from business and most people to get budgets to go up. It's completely wrong medicine.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e250	It was the comment from the representative, Engen-Helgheim, that made me take the floor, because now there was a lot of talk about Oslo here. I have been in the City Council of Oslo for ten years and have consistently opposed property taxes. We first removed it at the end of the 1990s, and we've kept it away until the red-greens came in, got a majority and introduced property taxes. We also agreed that it was introduced at the time. When we didn't want to introduce it, it was based on an assessment that the city had major water and sewerage challenges. Thus, water and sewerage charges had to be raised in order to take the necessary promise that the city has made. We had to set up a new renovation system, so the renovation fee has also had a significant boost in order to achieve this. Street upgrades have been made for property owners and landowners to participate in and contribute. It has been part of the overall assessment where we thought it was wrong to have property taxes. But at the same time, I would like to stress that it has never been my intention or a wish that the State should come and deprive the municipality of the opportunity to have a property tax. This battle takes place in the various local governments. There is a different situation in the different municipalities, and the responsibility should remain there.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e259	The representative Jon Engen-Helgheim says that property tax is not something you need, but is something you want. There's something you want to burden people and businesses with, without you need it. The representative of Engen-Helgheim represents Buskerud. He has recently made a big point that he has lived in Oslo for most of this period. I think that is quite significant. He is also now talking mostly about Oslo, seafaring whether he should be the ombudsman of Buskerud. I think the post of the representative, Engen-Helgheim, is a good example of the fact that the parties should be quite consistent on the fact that they live in their own state, live in the state they are to represent, live in the state where they are to represent people, travel in their own state, settle in the communities of their own state. When this is said that municipal politicians don't give priority, they're Greek, they're a little creative, there's very little experience in running a municipality. The Progress Party does not have much experience in managing municipalities. They don't run municipalities in Buskerud, and they have marginal influence. Thus, they can become Norwegian champions in reducing the income of municipalities while being Norwegian champions in increasing the expenditure of municipalities in many areas. Elder care is an example. Modum municipality is a good example – a large municipality with very big financial challenges to secure and have a good welfare offer, a municipality that has many millions of dollars in income from property taxes on power plants. The party of progress does not seem to understand that their proposal implies that the property tax on power plants should also be eliminated. It is not responsible, the Progress Party operates, and there are quite a number of people who now experience that the way in which the Progress Party operates is not material. It's pretty far away from reality. They're all ahead of time in terms of expenses. They are never in the front in terms of municipal income. The whole problem is not related, and what they're doing here is so irresponsible and so easily and easily. When you talk about not wanting to give priority to being Greek and a little creative, it's a certificate that our elected representatives in the municipalities don't deserve it. Therefore, the Progress Party does not have much support in the Jame Norwegian municipality either.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e272	It is almost touching to hear the care of the representative from Lundtegen for those he thinks I should represent. I can assure you that I would be happy to represent more than those in the county from which I am elected, and I would like to talk also about what I am making choices for. But now it's like I have a lot of experience with municipal policy in Buskerud. I was appointed Vice-Rapporteur for a period in the Drama, and for many years I have been in the city government in the Drama. The Drammen municipality is a municipality that receives lower income than the average. We get lower incomes per capita than, for example: Oslo. There we have had to give priority. That's where we've had to spend the money in a reasonable way. Politicians had to be creative in order to find the best solutions for the population. We were able to do that without property taxes. We have managed to make profits even without property taxes. But it costs. You need good politicians, you need people who are willing to prioritize and not just jump on simple solutions like getting more money from the locals when you find it too good. And we have. So I don't have to talk about municipalities like Drammen and elsewhere in Buskerud that actually have politicians and have had politicians who have been doing the job that Oslo hasn't done for a long time. Oslo has introduced a property tax that they strictly did not need. They should remove it right away. Especially in a period of economic problems for a lot of people, you should at least say, OK, we can go down a little bit on our surplus to help the people. But it doesn't want the Center Party, and it's a little surprising to see this burning commitment from the Center Party to keep the property tax in Oslo. I didn't think it was an issue for Oslo's politicians, but it's obvious. Finally, the autonomy of municipalities was mentioned to govern the types of taxes to be levied. In principle, I agree with that. It should be a long way to go into and override the possibilities of municipalities, but now we have seen for such a long time that some municipalities collect high taxes from the inhabitants even if they do not need it. Then there will be an easy solution that will ensure that politicians locally no longer give priority. You jump on what's closest, and that's what Oslo and a lot of others do. There is a long list of municipalities that choose a solution that plagues the population. I would rather deviate from the principle of municipal autonomy and say clearly to those local politicians who do not want to give priority, that now they have to start doing so. Now they can't have the opportunity to take people's money completely for no reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e285	I want to start by leaning heavily on what Elvesuen says about the basic principle that the municipalities must have the right to decide for themselves, even in what is related to property taxes. I'm just saying it first. Then I want to say that when I took the floor now, it was because I don't think it's possible to sit in the main hall and listen to how municipal government representatives and politicians in the municipalities are characterised by the Progress Party. I don't think that's a good idea. Because it is false, false, and unaccountable to claim that Norwegian politicians only charge property taxes because they want to plague the inhabitants. I need to make a heavy mark against that. It's a way of acting politically populist, which the Progress Party unfortunately represents in this matter. This includes, inter alia: The representative of Engen-Helgheim then forgets, is that he also labels many of his own people in the municipalities around the country. It is not the case that the representatives of the Progress Party in the local government in Norway consistently vote against the property tax. It's not like that. That's a lot of places they're actually in because they have to. It is linked to what is a law in politics, and I remember myself when I sit and listen to this debate, that is, the law that states that there is no such thing as a free lunch. Everything has to be paid at the seventh and last. I live in the municipality of Lier, where municipal fees have been gradually increased in recent years – with the votes of the Progress Party. Is that not also a form of taxation for citizens? Of course it is. The whole of the principle argument underlying the proposals of the Progress Party falls to the ground, and it is merely an expression that they do not take overall collective responsibility for the provision of the services to be provided by the municipalities at the end of the day – in one way or another. But they ignore that and try to create a game of this that will give them a label that they're on the people's side. It's the double communication that really contains what I've spent a lot of my political life revealing, that's what's called the FrP code. It's doing one thing and saying something completely different.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e298	It's interesting to sit and listen to the debate on property taxes, and it's fun to record that red-green politicians always say you have to have property taxes to carry out the good things. Lundtigen said that local politicians could not be said to be greedy or to use the money of others. But at least you can say that they are very happy to spend other people's money on useless things. I have been a municipal politician and a member of the local government for 26 years, and I have experienced that we spend money on a lot of strange things in our municipality. In the last election debate before the election, all the red-green parties sat and said they would not increase the property tax. It was elections, they got a majority, and pang -- property taxes increased sharply. Now there's a full round of new business, and people are very frustrated to see how politicians want to rip them off with more property taxes. You say you spend the money on the reasonable things. No, in my municipality they buy a farm for over 6 million. NOK, where they have to tear the main house after they have bought it, because it is in such a bad condition that you cannot use it. It costs hundreds of thousands of dollars each year, which the residents have to pay, and then it's okay just to send the bill and print out a new property tax or higher property tax, and then you get that money. Or you buy a house worth over $6 million. kr. It is not primary tasks for a municipality to carry out, and one should use the property tax – and increase the property tax – to collect money for it. But that's what many politicians do because they think it's fun to spend other people's money, while those who have to pay look up in the wallet saying every single year and see that there's ever less money in that wallet, because there's someone who's going to skin them with increased property taxes. That's a big difference. In fact, we believe that it is possible to spend the money more wisely, and that it is possible to challenge how to spend the money in their own municipality. But unfortunately, there we are very much alone – we often see that – to look at opportunities to save and see potentials in savings. Or on the other hand, because you were so ideologically opposed to state-funded care for the elderly as you were in my municipality, you had to vote it down. All the red-green parts voted it down. If the municipality had joined in 2015, when this was introduced, yes, they had had tens of millions a year that they could spend on other things, without having to charge property taxes to pay for these services. But it's often about ideology. You're happy to spend other people's money, too many local politicians are. That is why we are promoting this proposal today. I think it's a crazy good proposal, and I hope we get a majority for it, it doesn't look like it. But it's possible to spend the money more wisely in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e311	First of all, to those who talk about municipalities going with profits: it's a very special term for a construction like a municipality. Municipalities have a positive net operating surplus if they are managed in a good and reasonable manner, and that money is set aside for pension expenditure, the repayment of loans and the provision of buffer funds for unforeseen expenditure, among others. The Progress Party operates in this matter and characterises the country's municipal politicians as being Greek and almost late, as if they don't have enough creativity to find other ways to cover their expenses. The vast majority of municipal politicians in Norway are leisure politicians. There are ordinary family members, including those who spend days and evenings working for their community, as opposed to well-paid policy-makers, who have this as a full-time job. Engen-Helgheim, Johnsen, Johansen and others from the Progress Party should apologize to their own colleagues after this debate when they call them Greek. In Bergen, where I live, we have of course our own perspective message once in the period, and in 2015 the Right and Advance Party City Council presented its own perspective message and said that the economic development of the municipality was not sustainable. There are strong words in a perspective message. The result was that the Right and Advance Party City Council, with the financial bureau of the Progress Party, introduced property taxes. There was no Left or Christian People's Party in the city council forcing them, it was the Finance Agency of the Advance Party. The Progress Party's own colleague here at Stortinget, Silje Hemdal, who is today a big-time representative, put in this city council, so it's just to expect her colleagues to go back from this case and apologize for her language usage that she was a Greek municipal politician in 2015, when the Progress Party introduced property tax in Bergen.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e322	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e339	At the request of the Finance Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: the Labour Party 25 minutes, the Right 25 minutes, the Progress Party 15 minutes, the Central Party 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Green Party 5 minutes, the Green Party 5 minutes, the Red 5 minutes and the Minister for Finance 5 minutes. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, there will be a reply to replies from the main figures of the parties and members of the government. Those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e348	One of the best things about Norway is that no matter what background you have, you should have equal opportunities, that there are small differences and high trust, that everyone gets treatment when they are ill, and that the elderly get a decent old age. We can't take that for granted. A prospective report shall take the temperature in Norway. It will tell you about the challenges and opportunities Norway has in the coming years. It can be difficult to see 40 years ahead in time while we are in the midst of the worst crisis in recent times. At the same time, the challenges are closely linked. The Korona crisis is the deepest setback in the Norwegian economy since the war. It has required, and will continue to require, powerful measures. Even after society has reopened, its aftermath will be there. On the way out of the crisis, we need to create more and include more. It is closely related to the grips we have to face with the three main challenges of perspective communication, which I would like to highlight: expenditure is growing faster. Income is not growing as much as before. We have to carry out the green shift. However, one of the most important things to take with you from the message is the need to get more people to work. There are few things that cost more or create more inequality than having a lot of people standing out from work. That is why we need to create growth in the private sector, to include more people in the labour market and to invest in education and skills in order to ensure a sustainable welfare society. Even though our oil fund is large, it's still 75-80 pst. of national wealth are people who work. There are warm hands in the old homes and strong arms in the construction site. The most important job for politicians in the time to come is to make sure that everyone who can work works. We have to make room for people with challenges in their working life, and we have to make it possible for people to work longer. The efforts we have to make as a society to increase our work are essential to ensure our well-being. We need to lower the threshold into the labour market and make it easier for employers to hire people with different challenges. We have therefore strengthened the supply of mental health and drug problems for job seekers, so that more people can take part in the work at the same time as they receive medical follow-up. For those who have not completed their education, or have an education that is difficult to use, we have strengthened the possibilities of taking other training. In order to increase the number of people working, early efforts, better implementation of higher education and skills levels are also important. With more in work, we increase tax revenue and save social security costs at the same time. The labour market is increasingly demanding formal skills. For those who do not undertake secondary education, the risk of falling permanently away from work is high. It can have major consequences for those involved, both socially and when they are going to work. That's why we've stepped up the early effort, peaked around the students, so that more people get through the entire school run, including high school. We owe it to our young people. The integration of immigrants is getting better and better here in the country, and we see clearly what a fantastic journey more people are doing in just one generation. Nevertheless, many stand out of work and education. People coming to Norway need to be integrated and become part of the community. Getting the most immigrants into education and work is one of the most important things to succeed in this. We have put in place measures to get more women with a minority background into work, so that more families with a migrant background can go from being single-income families to two two-income families. We have strengthened Norwegian training, and we must continue to work to ensure that the path from being newly-accompanied immigrants or refugees to a taxable citizen of society is as short as possible. I'm glad we live longer, and today's elderly people have better health than ever. But that also means that while there are now four people of working age behind each pensioner, by 2060 there will be only two. This means that fewer hands have to take care of the elderly. At the same time, expenditure on both pensions and health and care services is also increasing. Older people with long experience in the workplace have an invaluable competence. Almost every third employee in the public sector is subject to special age limits and must leave the job before the normal age limit of 70 years. Therefore, the government has proposed to remove the obligation to withdraw the post at the age limit, so that motivated workers can choose to continue. With our policies, no one is going to date. We'll always work to solve problems a better way than we do today. This means using the opportunities offered by better organisation, digitisation and efficiency. We need reforms that are both good and can save money for us. The railway reform is such an example. New Ways such an example. Such reforms release money we can spend on other important services — healthcare, good teachers in classrooms and the police who protect our community. We cannot treasure ourselves out of the challenges of the future. The problem in Norway is not that we have a poor state. In the pandemic we see that nine out of ten lay-outs come from the private sector. That's where the jobs have to be created. Therefore, it is important that we have a tax and tax policy that is in place with those who want to create Norwegian jobs, who are at work with those who work every day to save Norwegian jobs. The left side believes that the debate on tax is about yachts and luxury cars, but it is really about fishing boats and trucks. It's about people's jobs. In the next ten years, Norway will seriously establish itself as a green industrial nation. The pandemic forces the changeover, and the starting shot for the green shift has gone. Climate policy is linked to industrial policy and value creation. This is why we ensure that, at the same time as pollution is more expensive, other taxes and charges are introduced, tax relief for those affected by the charges, and good support schemes are provided, so that it always pays to choose green. It is with the deepest setback in the Norwegian economy in the post-war period that we treat a perspective message that points out the direction for Norway. In the last year, we've all learned the importance of having extraordinary government finances. Thanks to all those who have contributed to Norway’s largest oil and gas industry venture, the community has received huge revenues. And thanks to wise decisions and responsible management, we have used them to build up the world’s largest national savings fund – the oil fund. Even though we are in a crisis today, we have an obligation to think about the time that comes after the crisis. We have to make sure that the day others face similar crises, they should also have at least as good a toolbox as what we've had and have. This message is about the generation that is growing up, and the ones that are coming after it again. We have to make sure that they get at least as good a starting point as we've been given.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e382	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e387	The perspective message is a lot about the action space in the budget ahead, but if we look at the very short story backwards in time, we see that the representative Kapur's government has cut almost 10 billion. kr in the wealth tax, which goes largely to the richest of the country. They have also done this in the middle of the 2020 crisis. When we stood here last year, the right cut also in the property tax, and the 1,000 richest individuals in Norway got 260,000 dollars each at the time. Then the cut was repeated and increased in the budget for 2021, a total of 0.5 million. kr to each of the country's 1,000 richest – in the middle of a pandemic. My question is, when, in the next period, the Right undertakes to further cut the property tax by putting the stock discount at 100 pst, how will the Right fund this full stock discount, combined with the premise in the perspective statement that the Right does not see fit to get more young people into work?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e392	First of all, I do not accept the premise that in the perspective statement, we do not see ourselves getting more young people into work. One of the perspective messages is that we're just going to make sure that more kids finish high school, and that we're going to make it easier for more people to get into work. So I don't accept that premise. So over to the tax: it is absolutely right that we have reduced the tax on working capital, so that Norwegian companies should not lose out in competition with international competitors – and not just the property tax: the total tax relief with us in the government has been over 30 billion. kr. That makes us take care of Norwegian ownership. It's almost frightening to look at the Workers' Party: in the middle of a pandemic, when unemployment is record high and the companies are wondering if they're going to survive the next few years, the Workers' Party's recipe is to increase the wealth tax by 7 billion. kr per year. That's the last Norwegian working life needs in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e399	The premise on the employment of young people is quite correct. The Labour Party has asked the Minister of Finance about this, and the government assumes that employment among the elderly is increasing somewhat due to the effects of the pension reform. However, since it is not a similar reform for young workers, the government assumes that employment will remain in place. And then again, the representative Kapur was in his article short about the climate problem, which is our biggest problem as a nation and a world society. During the weekend, Right’s closest collaborators in Stortinget, Sylvi Listhaug, have committed their skepticism to an almost unified international research body, which says that climate change is real and dangerous. I know that the Right believes in climate change and is concerned about them. My question is how to implement climate policy right up to 2030, when budgets are to be settled with Sylvi Listhaug, which is against CO 2 tax, against carbon capture and storage, and against good collective projects in big cities. Is it a good climate strategy to lean on such a party in Stortinget, a party that has a programme commitment to climate change?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e407	Firstly, I think it is very nice to hear that the representative from the Workers' Party assumes that it will still be the civil parties that will settle the state budgets by 2030 at least. That, I think, is a good statement to make before we move on in the debate. So to our cooperation with the Progress Party: the four non-socialist parties have fully agreed on good budgets since 2013, where we have managed to find the good balance between how we can continue to invest in our main industry, oil and gas industries, and at the same time prepare Norway for the transition. Emissions have fallen in recent years with this government, in cooperation with the Progress Party. But it is not we who have partners who want to shut down an oil and gas industry overnight and who will take away work or place hundreds of thousands of workers in uncertainty. So I'm pretty good at the cooperation we've had in the last seven years, looking forward to good budgetary cooperation, which the Labour Party says will last at least until 2030.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e414	The representative, Mr Kapur, stressed the importance of the Norwegian oil and gas industry and also mentioned it in his reply to the last line. It is clearly illustrated in the perspective communication what oil and gas revenues mean for Norway's economy and not least for our well-being. So the situation is that two out of three government parties have actually decided to phase out Norwegian oil and gas, not to grant new licences on Norwegian base. I would like to ask the representative, Mr Kapur, what reflections do Right-wing over these country meetings, which can in reality mean endangering some 200 000 jobs and seriously weakening the income base of Norway in the coming years?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e419	No one shall be in doubt about the Right-wing Policy for Norwegian Oil and Gas. We are opposed to a political closure of Norway's largest industry. It won't make the world greener, but it will definitely make Norway poorer. That being said, it is a reality that demand for Norwegian oil and gas can go down in the years ahead – or will do so. Then it's our responsibility in a statement of perspective that looks 40 years ahead, to address these issues, that we are already starting to facilitate the green transition, which will definitely be on the shoulders of the industry that created the adventure for Norwegian oil and gas. That's something we also stood by when we worked with, among other things. The progressing party gave a rather strong package of measures to Norwegian oil and gas industries to get over the knee. One of the reasons was that that's what will contribute to the green shift. My main reflection on the points of other parties at this is what I'm saying now, but most of all I reflect on my own politics.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e424	The representative, Mr Kapur, said in his speech that it is important in a perspective statement to take the temperature in Norway. But what the Right should do is make sure to take the temperature all over Norway. After all, it is chemically free to recognise the strong centralisation that has taken place in Norway. In 2019, there were 300 municipalities in Norway that had a decline in the population. In northern Norway, over the last two years, the population has been reduced by 7,700 inhabitants, and so says the district industry committee, which announced a stopover to the government last autumn, that it is the state – to a greater extent than other actors in the public sector and to an even greater extent than the private sector – that is leading the way to centralisation. Why does the Right believe that it makes sense to centralise Norway in a state-driven way?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e430	It's almost charming when one of those lines comes from one of the biggest centralization machines on the Stortinget, now I'm talking about the party, not about the representative Geelsvik personally. What Mr Gülsvik is talking about is really the reverse of reality. When this government took over, there was a need for a municipal reform. Instead of having each municipality in Norway set its own municipal level, development plan, business plan or innovation plan, this government carried out a municipal reform so that we could gather the professional environments, create good power centers of the municipalities and thus bring about democratisation and further strengthening of Norwegian municipalities. Through our policies, we have seen that we almost have to go back to the last millennium in order to have an equally strong local economy. During this period of government we have seen that there have been record few municipalities on the ROBEK list. What this government has provided is democratisation, not centralization.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e435	Through this debate on the Perspective Communication, we will frequently hear the word ‘priority’ being used. It is clear that priority is important. An important political and economic priority from the Right in the last eight years has been cut off from the wealth tax, especially for the richest of the country. The cuts have not led to a single new job and have hardly solved other significant societal challenges either. But what the cut has given us is the entire containment need as the perspective message draws up towards 2030. Nevertheless, the Right will also remove the property tax on shares in the next period. Then my question to the representative Kapur is: what is the Right Priority? What welfare measures will the Right implement the next period? What will be cut in the budget just to meet the containment needs we have today, thanks to today's government, and which will be reinforced if the Right would win the elections in the autumn?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e440	When SV put in government, we had higher income taxes, we had higher corporate taxes, we had higher property taxes, and we had inheritance taxes. And yet the inequalities went up. The level playing field between a tax and tax policy that helps to strengthen business conditions and well-being is not at stake. Yes, we have cut taxes and taxes, but the representative forgets to mention that since the Right came into government in 2013, we have increased hospital budgets by 47 billion. NOK, we've got 3,000 more police employees, a normal family pays NOK 14 000 less in taxes, we've increased the child's contribution – and I could still have. We have also implemented – not to forget it – one of the most important reforms in the field of integration, which can contribute to less inequality. When we work to facilitate the conditions for Norwegian business, we have a complex policy, and that's why we always talk about the entire tax package that we have presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e445	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e450	Today's debate in Stortinget is perhaps the most important thing we have during the entire period. The message of perspective in itself may not be popular electricity, but the debate on our common future is engaging widely, even outside the large corridors. Over the last decades, we've had an adventurous development in the Norwegian economy. The standard of living has increased. Most people have received better advice, and the state is in a dream situation with a large oil fund because wise politicians have decided that the community's resources will benefit the population now and in the future. So it might be that the good times are approaching the end. Expenditure is growing and revenue is growing less rapidly. Then it is important to remember that the perspective message, which we are discussing here today, is a political document that reflects the policies and strategies of the current government for the future. This is why it is particularly interesting to look at how government policy has affected the future we are entering in recent years. The budgets need for tightening was estimated to be 5.3 pst in the previous report, in 2017. of the GDP of mainland Norway. After a new period of right-wing policy, up to 2021, this need for tightening has increased to 5.6 pst. There is something to think about for those from the government parties and the right to preach about financial accountability from this pulpit today. The action room that could have been there is gone, among others. with a cut in the property tax that accumulates to 50 billion. kr. Now the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance Party are choosing to cut this tax further – so that it is not taxed by large stock assets. With this policy, the right-hand side has no room at all to implement any new initiatives — underlined that they themselves assume that they will not get more young people into work. In the coming years, however, there is no doubt that several older, lower birth rates and lower growth in national incomes may weaken the space for action in government budgets. But for the Workers' Party, it is important to stress that most of the sizes of the Perspective Communication can be influenced by policy. Politically, the space for action can also be increased in the coming years. The most important thing we do to increase the room for action in future budgets is to get more involved. More people who work part-time have to work full-time. Several of us have to work a little longer before we retire, and not least we have to stop the development we've seen under Erna Solberg's leadership, with five new kids performing every single day, totally twice as many as when the Right took over responsibility. In front of huge tax cuts to the richest, the government should put all the cloths to invest in today's young people. If we can get more young people into work, we give security and freedom to the individual, but it also gives us room for action in the budgets. On questions from the Labour Party, the Minister of Finance himself answers that if the level of the number of recipients of disability benefits under 30 had been the same today as in 2013, we would have had 5.6 billion. kr more in budgetary space than we have today, as a result of both lower social security costs for the state and higher tax revenues, and now we haven't even talked about the human benefits of getting more young people into work. The perspective message also premises that since the space for action has weakened in the next few years, we cannot afford to invest in well-being. For the Workers' Party, it appears quite different. We view enhanced well-being as an investment that gives us significant benefits as a society. The public and private sectors are interdependent. It is the combination of services produced in government and goods and services produced privately, which will strengthen the Norwegian economy in the future, not growth in the private sector alone, which many on the right seem to believe. We've seen this clearly through the coronary apathy. Our public welfare has contributed to the fact that the fall in the economy has not been as steep as it could have been. Since the government shift in 2013, the use of oil money has more than doubled, and in 2020, every fourth quarter of the state budget came from the oil fund. This has happened during a period when oil money consumption should be adapted to the conversion needs of the Norwegian economy. Of course, we're going to spend more money in economic crises, like the one we're in now. What worries is that the right does not slow down the use of money in good years. In fact, an almost total opposition has proposed lower oil money use in the good years of economic recovery. One thing is the extent of the use of oil money, something else is what they're used for. Every time we talk about oil money, we should remind ourselves what it really is: it's the financial fortune of Norway's future generations. Spending this money on tax cuts for the wealthiest in the country is both unfair across the population today and unfair for future generations. However, the greatest challenge facing us as a nation and the world community is the climate crisis. In order to limit the harmful warming of the globe to 1.5 degrees, we need to take vigorous action now in order to target 2030 and 2050. For the Workers' Party, there is no doubt – climate objectives are to be achieved and they are to be achieved in a way that does not increase the economic and geographical differences in Norway. Climate policy shall be fair. This is hardly addressed in the government's perspective message, rather in the climate announcement that Stortinget dealt with earlier this year. An example of fair climate policy is how to deal with increased climate taxes, which – if any in this room were in doubt – will have to increase if we are to have a chance to achieve our climate goals. But how one uses the income from climate change taxes is what determines whether policy is fair or not. The most important thing in the tax policy for the next capitalisation period is to cut the wealth tax for those with large equity assets. So increased climate taxes that hit ordinary people must benefit the richest of the country. The working party has a much better solution. We say that the increased income from climate change taxes should be used to reduce the tax on ordinary employee income and to cut other taxes. At the same time, policy is fair and does not contribute to increasing the differences between people. In the debate on the perspective statement, we can certainly be fiscal politicians and others a little pessimistic when we are concerned about the economic future of the nation. And yes, that's enough to worry about. I myself am deeply concerned about all the young people who are not allowed to take part in the work and the costs it will have for individuals, families and the big community. But it's more than enough to be optimistic about meeting the challenges we're going to meet. Because in Norway, we trust each other and the authorities. We have solid institutions that are staffed with the best professionals. We have companies that see new opportunities facing climate problems. And we have social partners working together on common challenges. So everything is in order for the history of the happy country of Norway to continue over the next decades. But we're at a tipping point now. To create an even better society, we can't just preserve and preserve, like today. It's the recipe for a standstill and then a return. No, we need to reverse development and get more young people into work. We have to invest in welfare, not privatize it. Climate policy should be fair, not increase differences between people. The vision of the Labour Party is not that Norway should be like today in 2030 or 2060. Our vision is that we should have even more in work, a stronger state of public well-being, that climate objectives have been achieved, and that the differences between people have been reduced. With that, I take up the Labour Party's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e488	The representative Eigil Knutsen has addressed the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e495	The Labour Party is involved in many important issues in its contribution, and I agree with the representative Eigil Knutsen that there is no doubt that the challenges of the future are not necessarily already revealed. We don't know everything, but at least we know that many of the challenges we see today can grow bigger. I also fully agree with the representative that we are not sure that everything has already been done. It is nevertheless that when you work with a perspective message, it is important to learn some of the story, and there I want to challenge the representative a little in my own history. I was inside this in the previous line round. Does the representative of the Workers' Party really think that there will be more jobs and that we will help Norwegian companies create more jobs by taxing companies with a tax that their international competitors will not pay?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e502	The Workers' Party is going to vote for an unchanged company tax. We have said that it should be fixed at the level it currently stands at – in the companies, in the companies, and then we have said that the personal tax, the property tax, should be slightly increased. Now the Right has been in government for eight years and desperately tried to prove that the property tax is harmful to Norwegian jobs, but we have still not been presented with any credible arguments from professionals that the property tax damages jobs in Norway. But what we know is that cuts in wealth taxes give us are increased differences and reduced opportunities to invest in well-being. The government itself says in the perspective statement that the room for action in the budgets is so to say away if everything is as it is today. It's from the level right that proposes to cut the property tax by 20 billion. kr. The working party says it's going to increase something. It is both to bring down the differences between people, that everyone should contribute, and that everyone should contribute to investing in welfare in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e507	The right has always been clear that it is the overall level of taxation that has something to say for business, and it is also in the framework conditions that are generally laid down for business, including: promotion, innovation, knowledge, etc. So the Workers' Party is trying to turn the job debate into just a debate on property taxes – well, that's what we're going to get back to another time. But I want to talk a little bit more about the treasure. The working party now says that there is a guarantee that the tax and tax level will remain where it is. With what I want to ask the Workers' Party a little about their tax guarantee. They themselves have said that the tax and tax level should stay where it is, but at the same time you say that you will increase the property tax by 7 billion. kr. Once again, you just point out that this is about people, and you don't want to discuss the realities. These are people who put their money into Norwegian workplaces, we're talking about trucks, excavators, fishing boats. That's what the working capital is. Why does the Workers' Party believe that there will be more jobs to tax these funds?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e514	The Labour Party first discusses many more things than the wealth tax in the debate on jobs. We have tried several times to get the Right to a discussion about an active industrial policy, versus the passive industrial policy that today's government is pursuing. In response to the new challenges, it is important to have a more active state on the road. It also wants business, so that we get speed on the changes to take care of the jobs that are there today, but also to build new ones. Then the Labour Party is probably the only party that goes to elections on a clear tax promise for the next period. It is in our alternative budget for 2021. There is no unchanged level of taxes and charges, but for people and people's income there is no change in the level of taxes and taxes. But we're increasing the wealth tax. In 2021 it would have given 7 billion. kr more than with the government budget. It is not a tax on jobs, it is a tax on large equity assets, and that is what is greatly taxed on wealth taxes. 88 pst. of the valuation to be cut by the Right is shares and not other means of operation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e521	The Labour Party is now warning a new line in industrial policy: the state must own more to carry out political ambitions. We have high state ownership in Norway, among the highest in Europe, and state-owned companies compete with private ones. Access to capital in Norway is good, and we have an instrument that triggers private capital. What is the reason why the Workers' Party believes that increased government spending will contribute to greater value creation, more jobs and better welfare development in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e529	We can just take a look back in history at the beginning of the 1970s. If the Workers' Party had at that time heard of the Advancement Party, Norway had been a much, much poorer country than today. We had not been able to build up the financial assets we have in the oil fund. We had also not managed to create a large industrial locomotive like Statoil, later Equinor, was created. So I'm not going to accept advice from the Progress Party on how the government is going to engage in business policy. But what is at least certain and certain is that the industry and industry in Norway are also facing the enormous changes that are now taking place. It has to be electrified, and Europe's demand becomes greener. The Labour Party is committed to preserving the jobs that are there today, but also to creating new ones to meet all these new challenges. If you do as the Progress Party and just leave the market alone, you can't take care of the jobs, either today or in the future. This is why we strongly believe that the state should also engage in business and take a clear direction in industrial policy in the future to meet the climate challenges, including:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e536	The representative Knutsen says that climate policy must be fair, but it must also be effective. An effective climate policy today takes place to a very large extent in cooperation with the rest of Europe. We also have our own climate agreement with new targets by 2030, and the European greening will be important for Norwegian industry development. Although the Workers' Party is in favour of a strong EEA agreement, all the parties to the Workers' Party wish to cooperate with, contrary to the EEA Agreement and wish to amend it. Then my question becomes: is this something that the representative will reject that will be a problem, or does it also worry the representative Knutsen that so many parties now oppose the EEA Agreement and want to reconsider it?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e543	There is a large, large majority of the population and among the voters of all parties except Red that Norway should continue to be associated with the EU through the EEA Agreement. And just to start right away: the working party is not going to sit in a government that does not base the EEA Agreement. I very much agree with Elvesuen that, especially in the climate field, good cooperation with the rest of Europe is important. That's how we can speed up the energy transition and secure our jobs in the future. Then it's going to be important for the Workers' Party, if the voters form a new majority, to make better use of the EEA Agreement's scope of action than today. In particular, there is no doubt that labour immigration has some effect which needs to be met with strong legislation, a strengthened labour-environment law, strengthened supervision, which is the opposite direction of labour policy to the Left in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e552	One of the areas addressed by the representative in his post was the concern that the inequality was growing. It's a problem that many people can be in. But when you look at the Labour Party’s priorities, one of the measures proposed by the Labour Party is the one-time benefit – a benefit that goes to the families who have the least, who are not entitled to parental leave, and who are among the very ones who are overrepresented in poverty statistics. Does the Labour Party cut down there because they are concerned that Norwegian families have children too early? Or what is the purpose? Don't you see that this will just affect a part of the family that already has at least one member?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e557	Had the representative Storehaug and the Christian People's Party been concerned about this, they might not have been part of a large majority that over the last eight years have increased the kindergarten price by nearly NOK 3000 a year. The main priorities of the Labour Party – for these are priorities we need to talk about in this matter and in budgetary context – are among others. cutting the price of kindergarten for everyone and also providing cheaper SFO. It's an inclusive way to pursue family policies. We then gave Norwegian families and households a little better advice than today, because they had earned it after eight years when the nursery price, among other things, has increased steadily.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e562	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e567	The Communication of Perspectives is an important and exciting policy document, but experience suggests that developments do not always turn out to be exactly what the projections call for — perhaps fortunately. For this communication, like the previous ones, a rather pessimistic picture of the future of Norway and the Norwegian economy. It's hard, almost impossible, to predict evolution 40 years ahead in time, but the perspective message makes it clear what can happen if the Storing doesn't make the right priorities. Norway is a fantastic country with a solid economy and a high level of well-being. However, the Perspective Communication highlights some concrete challenges for Norway as a welfare society and for the Norwegian economy. Living any longer is not a problem. It's rather a positive development. The fact that pensioners have rights and deserve a good pension is not a problem either, rather, on the contrary. They deserve that. Norway’s challenge is primarily linked to low participation among groups other than pensioners. We have too many people who are not active in the labour market and who are on temporary or permanent public benefits. This is complex, and it has different reasons. But as the perspective message points out, many who are on temporary benefits end up being dissatisfied and not coming back to work. It's a big problem for the individual and for our welfare community. The Progress Party wants all Nav public services and municipalities to be reviewed in order to coordinate and streamline the process. It is not to hit individual cables, but to target them better. As a result of the political impact of the Progress Party, Norway now has a very strict immigration policy, but it is challenged by many parties who want to open up borders. This is political disagreement, but the perspective statement illustrates in a good way what future expenditure will be charged to public budgets if we fail to achieve full integration. Among many immigrant groups, participation is very low and the receipt of public benefits is very high. The results of integration policy are not entirely in line with the efforts and billions allocated. It is unsustainable, and that challenge necessarily requires more political parties to be willing to recognise and discuss. This perspective message, as the previous ones, shows the importance of the oil and gas industry for the Norwegian economy and for our welfare society. The industry employs almost 200 000 people. The ringing effects are enormous – not just in the South and Western countries. In the Oslo region including Akershus, the industry contributes to nearly 70 000 jobs including subcontractors. It's very difficult to predict the price of oil and gas, but the energy demand is quite predictable, and there's nothing to suggest that the world needs less energy, rather on the contrary. No industries can replace oil and gas for Norway in the short term. However, technology and competence transfer from this industry is crucial to succeeding in long-term and profitable investments, including: the renewable sector. That's why we have to pay attention to our most important industry. I record that the Workers' Party is warning a new line in industrial policy – an active industrial policy in which the state is to own more and state companies no longer operate with profitability as their sole objective. State ownership in Norway is already very high, and state companies compete with private companies in many sectors. At the top it seems that the Workers' Party will introduce good, old-fashioned state capitalism – by the way, not good, but old-fashioned. At the same time, the Workers' Party will increase the taxation of Norwegian private enterprises and corporate owners by many billions. Access to capital in Norway is good, especially for larger enterprises. However, access to risk capital and investment depends on predictability and long-termity of the policy framework conditions. If capital and jobs are not moved out of the country, the value creation in Norway is weakened. Small and medium-sized enterprises where owners do not have the same opportunity to adapt to tax increases and poor framework conditions will be left with the entire bill. At least it will not contribute positively to the Norwegian welfare society. Some characterize the growing choice of the harvest as a road map. At least it can be quite fateful for Norwegian enterprises and jobs in Norway. I would then like to raise the proposal of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e598	The representative Hans Andreas Limi has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e605	The Progress Party may intervene — including in the contributions of the representative, Mr Limis — to give the impression that they are engaged in industrial workplaces and businesses, but the commitment seems to be hollow. Now the Progress Party has just held its national meeting, and it turned out that industrial policy is completely absent from the party programme of the Progress Party. However, long discussions on identity policy from the United States took place at the national meeting. However, a passive industrial policy is not what Norwegian industry and business needs now, in response to global competition, climate requirements and technological changes. Also, parties that have programmed their climate skepticism have to deal with the green direction of money and capital flows. So my question to the representative Limi is: How does the Progress Party defend that they will leave the Norwegian industry alone – without political means, if we are to believe their own party program – in front of global competition, rather than taking a hold on Norwegian jobs, ownership and value creation?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e612	I understand that Knutsen was neither present at the national meeting nor has read our completely new and fresh party program, so I will leave it. However, what the representative is likely to want to do is, among other things, to: what is happening in the renewable sector and what is happening in the climate. What the Progress Party wants is that our companies should have the same conditions as other companies, in other countries, and they will not have that if we implement unilateral Norwegian taxes or climate action in Norway. It will only exacerbate the competitive situation of Norwegian industry, and at least they do not. What we want is that we should exploit the flexibility contained in international agreements, for example: with the EU, which gives us the opportunity to have a far greater cost-benefit effect of the climate investments being made, without the need to send the bill unilaterally to Norwegian companies or Norwegian consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e620	Now that we're discussing the perspective statement and looking into the glass sphere, it's also useful to see what the different parties actually did while they were in government. The accounts for the Progress Party were pretty clear: almost 7 billion. kr in increased taxes while Siv Jensen was the finance minister, who hit ordinary people, while the property tax was cut by 10 billion. kr. Now, in its party program, the Progress Party is going to vote to cut the property tax by 15 billion. kr. Everything's going away. The representative Limi talked about predictability in his post, that people must have predictability of the tax. Yes, the Labour Party agrees. The Labour Party will be elected, among others: that company tax should be like today, but the Progress Party is therefore going to vote for 15 billion. kr in further taxes on wealth. So my question to the representative Limi is: is it just those on top, who are currently paying property taxes, who are going to have predictability that the right side will continue to care for them with great tax gifts in the years to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e627	After all, the Labour Party is going to vote, at least according to its alternative state budget, on rather massive tax increases for the companies, because it wants to increase the wealth tax on working capital and thus affect the owners of the enterprises. We're still in a pandemic, and to get out of it, we don't need tax increases, at least on the contrary. I think what's important to see now – also for the Workers' Party – is that we need to free up risk capital. We need more people who are willing to invest in jobs, in new businesses and take risks, and we do not solve that by implementing tax increases, rather on the contrary. The Progress Party is proud of what we did on the tax and tax side when we were in government, and we are also proud of what we have achieved from tax reductions after we left the government, not least because it is important to limit border trade. I have not seen that the Workers' Party arranges to do something about taxes on goods exposed to border trade and secure jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e636	The fasitant after more than six years with the Progress Party in government is that Norway is less equipped to meet the future. We have a record trade deficit from mainland Norway. The use of oil money is record high, and we have a record state bureaucracy. On the labour market, all employment growth in the decade before the pandemic has taken the form of foreign citizens. 33 000 fewer Norwegian citizens are at work. This is not least due to uncontrolled labour immigration from countries in Europe with completely different pay and working conditions than in Norway. Does the Progress Party believe that full employment can be ensured at the same time as having uncontrolled labour immigration from the EEA?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e641	The question question is completely incorrect. Norway imports labour because we have a high level of capacity utilisation in the economy, just as it was before the financial crisis, when the Central Party put it in government. What we want is for us to train more skilled workers in Norway. According to statistics from the SSB, we actually need 100,000 more skilled workers over the next 20 years. We're not going to import them, neither from the EU nor anywhere else, we're going to train them in Norway. Then we need to take a further lift for vocational training, provide more places of study, even better apprenticeships and even closer cooperation with industry. That is why the Progress Party has also put forward a proposal to that effect. We have received a lot of vocational training while we were in government, but we have to do even more, because we are going to train skilled workers in Norway and not import from Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e646	The perspective message we are discussing here today shows that we have a need for containment by 2030. Earlier today, we debated the proposal of the Progress Party to remove the property tax. It amounts to approximately 14.8 billion. kr in lost income of municipalities. The Progress Party has also recently decided to remove the entire wealth tax. That's 16 billion. kr in lost income. Furthermore, the Progress Party will cut in and remove other taxes and taxes. Given just the great need for containment that we have up to 2030, and given the record record of the Finance Minister of the Progress Party, Siv Jensen, over the last few years, what is the Progress Party's plan to meet that need for containment? Is there still a high withdrawal from our oil fund, or is the concrete welfare that the representative here can tell us that the Progress Party is going to vote on?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e653	It is true that the Progress Party has decided in its entirely new programme to reduce taxes on wealth and to abolish taxes on wealth. We haven't said it's going to happen in a year or four years, but we want to liquidate the property tax. We believe it is very unfortunate, because it contributes to discrimination. As we have seen in our alternative state budget, we have many good cut suggestions. Among other things, we are calling for a reduction in the aid rate, which means between 11 and 12 billion. kr per year. We believe Norway should be on the agenda of the United Nations, i.e. 0.7 pst. of GNI. I took up the costs of non-integration in my post. It is not to draw the immigration card, for which we are often accused, but to point to a real problem. That development is not sustainable, and I had hoped that SV was also willing to discuss it. What are we doing to get more immigrants who are in Norway, into work, over to work and to contribute to the creation of value added? [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]] There are a number of areas where the Progress Party has other solutions that will contribute to containment.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e660	That's the line change. The President will stress that you stick to the minute you've been given. Here it's clubbed if you don't relate to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e667	A perspective message will be quickly marked by the perspective you have, and where you see the world from – if you see the world from the government offices in Oslo with a load of people communicating around you, or if you see the development of Norway from different places in our long-term country. The centre party is concerned that we should have growth and development throughout Norway. We are concerned that it should be possible to live, work and live a good life in the countryside and city, and that we should facilitate that everyone, no matter what kind of society a person lives in, will experience that one has a belief in the future in his life both for himself, for his family and for the community of which one is a part. Then it is important to provide good services to people, to ensure that both the social differences and the geographical differences in Norway are reduced, and to ensure that there is a change of direction in important areas, so that we can see all of Norway and make use of the rich natural resources that Norway has. If we really want to meet the challenges of the future, we need to address some of the major and negative developments that have been reinforced during today's government with the Support Party Progress Party. One is a record trade deficit from mainland Norway, which has only worsened during today's government by approx. 150 B.C.E. kr – a deterioration in the trade deficit of 150 billion. kr in a period of not more than eight years. Therefore, it is important that we make sure that we strengthen the basis for growth and development throughout Norway, that we use our history to build on the rich natural resources we have in Norway and build more jobs — increased value creation — and provide new and enhanced industrial growth in Norway. Then, of course, the state must be an active contributor to it through, for example, the important change we are going to have — from as much as today to using fossil carbon to use green and renewable carbon, ensuring a strong commitment towards areas such as broad forest industry and wood processing, towards maritime industry, towards the marine sector, and also strengthening the food industry and ensuring that we have both increased production and more jobs associated with food processing in Norway. We also need to ensure a development in which the state contributes to growth and development across Norway – not as we have seen in recent years, where the state has gone ahead in view of a state-driven centralisation. The district industry committee, which presented its report last autumn, demonstrated that it is in the public sector, and in particular in the state sector, a major contribution to centralisation, through a number of reforms that today's government and the support party The Progress Party has been at the forefront of – a municipal reform, a regional reform, a gigantic centralisation of Norwegian police, within the university and higher education sectors, tax rates and customs duties. In a number of areas, this has resulted in a development in which municipalities after municipalities around Norway have lost jobs. In 2019, there were 300 municipalities in Norway with a decline in the population. During the lifetime of this government, 260 municipalities in Norway have together experienced a decline of nearly 6 000 State jobs, while the 10 largest municipalities in Norway have experienced an increase of about 6 000. 13,000. Policies work, and today’s targeted centralisation — a political and state-driven centralisation — contributes to changing Norway. That's why we have to make sure to go in the opposite direction. The centre party today proposes that we should: ‘stop all ongoing centralisation processes in the country and present a comprehensive plan on how the state, through increased local presence, can contribute to strengthening service provision and preparedness near people throughout Norway’. We must not least have a powerful force in North Norway, where one of the last two years has seen a decline in the population of 7,700. It is dramatic what is happening in many communities in Norway, and then we have to make sure that it is profitable to do business around Norway by providing better facilities, and we have to make sure that the state and the municipality can contribute. Then we have to make sure to reduce the differences in Norwegian society – with the policy that has been pursued in recent years, with large tax cuts to some of those who have the most from before, at the same time many people with normal and average income have both received increased taxes and have been deprived of some of the benefits they have had, for example reduced commuting allowances, set-aside supplements and rent supplements. Instead, we need to take care of a society of small differences – not a society where one is getting more and more directors with more and more wages, a society where we make sure that those who are at the bottom of the Norwegian community are lifted. That is why we are proposing today that you have a payroll freeze for high-wage managers in the state and set up a low-income commission. It is important to ensure a working life that includes. With regard to the trends we have in working life, a major challenge is to include more, of course now under the pandemic with over 200,000 unemployed for long periods, but also those who in an ordinary situation have problems getting into working life. There are many who would like to contribute, many who may have partial working skills, or who have full working skills, and who want to contribute. Then we have to do more than what has been done, for example. through the system of wage subsidies for persons with reduced working capacity, through the training of more people, have a better career in the education system, so that more people get through the training and more are trained in the practical professions. We need to take action in view of the overall framework for the labour market in Norway, because it is the Stortinget that is to control and have overall authority over the Norwegian labour market, and that it is not the EU and the EEA. In terms of having uncontrolled labour immigration from such a large area in Europe, the impact over time and what this means for pressure on pay and working conditions, for exclusion from the labour market, and in practice it is impossible to ensure full employment. That is the consequence of the policy being pursued. Then we have to have a policy for the future where we take care of and know our history. What has been involved in building Norway? Well, it's that we've made sure that we have a national ownership of our natural resources, had concession laws, had concession laws that have made sure that the rich natural resources we've had have been managed and given income to the community and income to the community. The blue-eyed belief in market right, sales and the increasing presence of foreign interests, also from countries with which we do not have safety cooperation, which are to own strategically important enterprises, infrastructure and natural resources in Norway, is an unwise policy. That is why we need to ensure a policy that goes in the opposite direction and that facilitates growth and development across Norway, ensures preparedness and services close to people throughout Norway and ensures national ownership. I'd like to take up with it the proposal of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e702	The representative of Sigbjørn Gülsvik has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e709	The centre party is concerned with optimism, but kept an article with a very pessimistic undertone, I must say. It is not so good to say what the Norwegian business community is waiting for with a red-green alternative. What we know, however, is that the Center Party is going to cooperate with parties that will increase taxes by between 7 billion. DKK and 22 billion kr a year, that the Senterpartie itself will reverse the property tax by 50 pst. for holdings and, worst of all, scrap EEA Agreement. You might wonder why the Center Party believes it's good district policy to put chains in the wheels for the profitability of Norwegian Forest on Forest in Trøndelag, a corner stone business with 400 district jobs, which exports 85 pst. of the paper they produce, and most of it goes to the EU. Why will the Senterpartiet block for an equivalent, safe and predictable market access in Europe for the products produced by Norwegian Forest?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e718	Here it was very different. In the case of tax and tax levels, the Centre Party is approximately at the level of the current year’s government budget. We want lower charges for both ordinary people and businesses in Norway. With regard to the EEA Agreement, for example, in the case of exports of timber – well, there has been no customs duty on exports of Norwegian industrial products since the late 1970s in Norway, long before we got the EEA. The centre party is concerned that we should have both good market access to our closest trading partners and at the same time have trade relations that ensure that we can be more masters in our own house, for example by not giving up the right to dispose of vital parts of Norwegian energy and industrial policy, as one has done by submitting to the EU Energy Union.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e728	Now it's paper Norwegian Forest produces, then. Another example is from another Turkish municipality. Røros has a company called Flokk. They produce office furniture, and 80 pst. exports go to the EU internal market. The export income from Flokk gives revenue to the municipality of Røro each year, which is the same as Røros receives in framework transfers from the country. Could the representative Gülsvik explain why it's good district policy, and why it's good for the Røros community to miss 140 million. kr annually in the municipal welfare fund?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e735	I'm sorry if I expressed myself unexplained. Thus, there has been no customs duty on exports of any industrial products, except processed fish, since the late 1970s in Norway, neither on paper nor on other types of industrial products. The centre party is committed to having good trade relations with our close trading partners. We have a long tradition for that. What is interesting is that since Norway concluded the EEA Agreement in 1994, a number of countries have entered into trade cooperation with the EU. Not a single country in the world except Norway has opted for the EEA Agreement – there are only a few hundred thousand Icelanders and Prince Hans Adam II of Liechtenstein. Making it so that the only option to ensure exports abroad is to have the EEA Agreement for the future is a rather simplified picture of reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e742	When I hear the representative, Gülsvik, the perspective message becomes almost an optimistic document in relation to listening to Gülsvik about what this future will be like. But I get it, because, in the event of a change of government, the Senter Party is going to deal with the Workers' Party, SV and the Environmental Party of the Greens. All parties have adopted a policy in which CO 2 taxes and air charges are to be greatly increased. SV will increase the CO 2 tax by 50 pst., increase the user fee on fuel and significantly increase the flight fee. The Green Party will increase the fees by 13 billion. kr and the fuel charge of 5 kr. And the Workers' Party supports a policy that makes it more expensive to drive a car and fly. MDG will lay down 36 major and important road projects. That policy will make it more expensive and more difficult to live in District Norway, and it will be more expensive for those who live north to fly. Can the Center Party accept that they do not want to join a possible future government with the red-green parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e755	It is fantastic to hear Bård Hoksrud, as a representative of the party that has provided record fees in Norway while sitting with the Minister of Finance, stand and be concerned that the fees in Norway will increase. The Centre Party has provided an alternative budget year by year in the United Kingdom, which means lower charges both for people and business in Norway. Unfortunately, the Progress Party, as a support party to today's government, and before that time, with the Minister of Finance, has ensured that the fees have increased and increased. It's been unwise. It has been unwise to increase the electricity charge, it has been unwise to increase the charges on flying, on travel, on transport in Norway. This has been unwise – a policy that must lead to lower taxes in Norway in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e762	The great advantage of the EEA Agreement is that it is a dynamic agreement. It's constantly changing, so Norwegian companies always have the same conditions as companies in the rest of Europe, which a trade agreement could never give. The special thing is that the Center Party disagrees with this. It is really not good for Norwegian business to get through. Now I asked the representative of the Workers' Party whether they would be concerned that parties they will now cooperate with want to withdraw from the EEA Agreement. He then said that they themselves would not sit in a government that would not have the EEA Agreement. Then the question is asked to the Centre Party and the representative Gülsvik: is it willing to accept such a reality that, in cooperation with the Workers' Party, the Centre Party will dispel its opposition to the EEA Agreement and not create this uncertainty for Norwegian business?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e771	I think it's important when you go to elections, that each party expresses what is one's policy in different areas. It is absolutely right that the EEA Agreement is a dynamic agreement. As a result, the EEA Agreement in the area by region becomes more intertwined and makes us less masters in our own house. Over recent years, as part of the government, the Left has ensured that Norwegian financial supervision is subject to EU financial supervision in important areas. It was an important area for Norway, and a lost national freedom of action there. The same applies to the EU Energy Union, where one, together with the Progress Party, the Right, Workers' Party and the MDG, made sure to notify Norway into the Acer, so that we were subject to EU governance on vital parts of Norwegian energy and industrial policy. The centre party thinks it's unwise, and that's why we're calling for a change of direction. That's what we're going to vote for.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e778	In his speech, the representative, Gülsvik, spoke well and warmly about listening to people and communities and municipalities that have come up with different decisions. In the statement of intent, which we are now discussing, the Centre has presented a proposal, proposal No. 30 saying that one shall restore the stocks of Troms and Finnmark as his own. One of the issues that arises is that Alta has a significant proportion of the population that wants to be part of Troms County. Will the Central Party respect it, and does it also follow the proposal put forward by the Central Party now?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e783	I thank you for the question. The first thing that has to happen is that one has to listen to the referendum that has been in Troms and Finnmark, who by overwhelming majority said that one will split this state up again. It was very unwise, the decision that, among other things, The Christian People's Party was in on the coercion of Finnmark and Troms. After such a resolution has occurred, of course, Alta must be able to go through the processes that are formally in place to ask for a separation from Finnmark. But the way forward there is pretty long.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e788	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e793	The perspective message is not a fascist in the future. It makes political choices visible – political choices such as: Should we cut taxes, increase the need for detection and thus cut welfare, privatize it and let people buy the services they want? Or are we going to redeploy from private wealth to community, strengthen well-being and give us more leisure time, while the Nordics also get more purchasing power? Both parts are possible from this message. It's political choices. But these are political choices that the Right will try to misjudge when they almost ideologically repeat that the sustainability of the welfare state is threatened. We are told about the responsible budget framework and the future need for containment, when, in reality, the Right message is that it needs to be tightened up, and we cannot afford the welfare of the future. This is how a narrative is built that we have to make our welfare so-called sustainable, a sustainable welfare society, as the Right says, because we can't name the state, which is going to be smaller, where private forces are going to take over and we can buy care for the elderly, kindergartens and school ourselves. They would call it freedom of choice in the Right House. A reduction in the welfare state and a recipe for increasing differences I call it. An important political and economic priority from the Right in the last eight years has been cut off from the wealth tax, in particular towards the richest of the country. The cuts have not led to a single new job, perhaps rather on the contrary. Nevertheless, the Right will remove the property tax on shares entirely in the next major period instead of spending money on something useful for the Norwegian population, such as better well-being or more targeted incentives towards Norwegian business in transition. Now new figures that SV has obtained from the Ministry of Finance show that these tax cuts have had a high price. The entire so-called containment need of the state budget in 2030 can be met if we reverse only half of the tax cuts carried out by the Solberg government. This need for containment has been created by the government's own policies. So the numbers show us to 2060 that it's going to be a long term containment need, and that's not so weird. We know that welfare services in general have lower productivity growth than private business, because it is limited to how much we can or should increase the efficiency of the job of looking after our kids or taking care of our parents when they get old. Therefore, it is both natural and, in fact, absolutely necessary that we spend relatively more money on welfare in the future, and thus reap benefits for the community of the value creation that takes place in the economy in general. This is what the Norwegian model has provided in the past and should also take care of in the future. So it's also that there's pretty much uncertainty about these numbers in the perspective statement. We know that the need for containment can be greater or less, depending on how climate change develops, how the oil fund returns, or whether new pandemics – or something else. There, we should equip ourselves as a society to deal with future challenges. The climate crisis should be at the top of that list. Unfortunately, the perspective message presented by the government contains incomplete assumptions about, among other things. Norway's oil production and our climate commitments. It is claimed that the ‘expected fall in production on Norwegian soil is thus greater than the global case considered by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change to be in line with a successful follow-up to the Paris Agreement’. Unfortunately, it underscores the need for increased climate action in the future. Researchers from Cicero have pointed out very problematic assumptions behind these calculations. The government has, among other things: used the median of the scenarios from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, but each scenario is a separate story and cannot be compared in that way. Each year, the government also provides estimates for future oil production. Every time it has been shown that those estimates have been for conservative purposes. This is about oil companies getting more oil and gas out of the fields than we thought, but also that the bulk of the population with the Workers' Party, the Right, the Advance Party and the Center Party in the head have a tradition of making the estimates a shame by promoting new explorations and new allocations and finally by providing large, very poorly-founded subsidies to the oil companies. Nor in climate terms is the announcement of perspective a fasit, rather – in this case – wishful thinking. With that, I'll take up SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e814	The representative Kari Elisabeth Kaski has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e822	The SV's response to the challenges of the Perspective Communication consists of, as we can hear, either minimizing the existence of the problems, or proposing to do things that reinforce the challenges: the resolution of the oil and gas industry and the end of exploration – there are 11,000 new unemployed first year, 100,000 in the long term. There are losses of large tax revenues. Regulations are in place that make current aquaculture impossible and the future unprofitable, with consequent losses of investment and jobs and future growth. At the same time, there is a tax increase as if it were a starting point for Keynes, which at least has to be described as very restrictive, at a stage where we will be proactive, a first year tax increase corresponding approximately twice the corporate tax in a normal year for fisheries and aquaculture combined. There is the introduction of a six-hour day, which will require over 100,000 new public employees. And that's making Norwegian exports less competitive. In other words, fewer enterprises, fewer jobs, lower tax capacity of those to fund well-being, larger public expenditure and more public employees to be paid on the same tax basis. How does SV get this calculation to go up when one aims at lower productivity where one needs higher, and that people should work less when we need more jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e829	I began my speech by saying that this debate is about political elections. I must admit that I would have appreciated it if the Right Representative too could have followed up on actually having a real political debate on those elections. SV and Right have different policy solutions. I get a bit tired of constantly having to discuss based on false assumptions and with representatives who have not read the figures contained in the perspective message – with respect to reporting. Because if you go in and look at those surfaces, you get the trouble at all to go in and see what is the starting point for the perspective message numbers, you'll see, first of all, that the coverage needs will vary, based on a wide range of assumptions. If you just turn up or down a little bit on the yield from the oil fund, the whole need for coverage is gone – with a pinch. If you even care about what the average level of taxation will be for the population, it can go up or down, based on the different scenarios. It would have been healthy for the debate if we could rely on the numbers in the message.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e834	I'm based on the numbers in the message. What I am hearing now is that SV will continue to base its policy on whether we have enough luck or not. But the question was not what the basis of the perspective message was. The question was, how is SV going to get this calculation to go up when one aims at lower productivity, considering the baseline, where we need higher, and that people should work less when we need to create more and include more? It's not like the choices we make are inconsequential, even if the coincidences happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e841	It is under this government that more and more young people are still unemployed and out of work. This government has not helped to get more people to work. It's also under this government that you've just wasted subsidies on the oil companies that you don't know about the final bill, but you know that at least it could be a couple of tens of billions. That's actually what happened last year. It is this government that has created the entire containment requirement by 2030. So when the representative comes here to accuse SV of having an irresponsible economic policy when we and the next majority are going to have a great need to cover up to 2030 because of the political choices this government has made, while setting a high record in oil money, it is with respect to notifying what helps us to now face the political elections. At the very least, SV is honest that we are going to increase the taxes for the richest country in order to meet that need and to be able to finance and expand welfare in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e846	It is important to create new jobs, but it is also important to take care of the jobs we already have. Therefore, it is frightening that SV, but also other parties in this room, want a policy that threatens tens of thousands of jobs in this country. In my home district, Agder, the oil industry employs 10,000 people directly and indirectly. Some of these people I know. They live in vulnerable communities where there is no rush with public jobs to follow, like here in Oslo, and many are afraid because someone wants to shut down their industry. I know SV is going to create many new, so-called green jobs instead, but I would like the representative Kaski to tell me, my constituents and the 10,000 people in my county who have a job to do because of the petroleum industry, what they are going to do in the future, which creates as many values as the petroleum industry is doing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e853	We know that the demand for oil and gas is going to fall in the next few years, and it's going to happen either way, whether it's SV or the Progress Party that controls. If you fear that, the Progress Party must work against the climate solutions that actually make us independent of oil and gas in the long term, against electric cars, against the electrification of society, against the development of renewable energy. I note that to some extent there are representatives in the Progress Party who want to go that way, but the Progress Party has also sat and controlled the Ministry of Oil and Energy and has facilitated the development of renewable energy. It's good for us to succeed in that transition. I am absolutely convinced that there is a far greater threat, a real risk of conversion for all the thousands of people working directly or indirectly in the oil and gas industry, if the market alone is able to control that transition, where a hard wall of demand is suddenly faced, where one no longer in Europe, for example, will demand Norwegian oil and gas because one has come so far in this transition. Then political governance is better.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e858	The representative Kaski knows that we need a much stronger international cooperation to achieve the climate goals. Today, the EU is a driving force for a stronger climate policy. Norway has very close cooperation within the EEA Agreement to be part of this. The question then arises: why does SV not want Norway to be part of the drive for climate change policy in Europe, within the EEA Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e865	SV wants international cooperation and closer international cooperation in climate and other areas, but it does not have to go at the expense of national self-determination or democracy that we have in Norway. Just the international efforts in the climate field, I believe, underline and build under it. As a nation, Norway has played a crucial role in international climate negotiations alone. It has been extremely positive in those negotiations that Norway has not been part of the EU and that we have been able to take a different role. The same applies in a wide range of other areas as well. So it is possible to strengthen this cooperation without being part of the EEA Agreement and the EU. I think there is now a pretty exciting international work going on, especially after the presidential change in the United States, with the new initiatives of the Biden administration for international cooperation. I wish we had a government that wants to be in front and forward there, and that takes several initiatives in terms of both inequality and climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e872	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e877	The most important sentence in the perspective message, in my opinion, is on page 54, where it says: ‘Climate change and a deterioration in the natural environment stand in a special position when we try to outline future global developments.’ So it says a little bit further down: ‘The climate challenge has no historical parallel.’ Maybe that's the most important thing we have here. To address our future and our economy, we need to reduce climate emissions, and we need to take care of nature. It requires global cooperation, where Norway must continue its efforts in global cooperation to reduce emissions, whether that is the rainforest effort we are leading to largely international, or the follow-up to the Maritime Panel, where the Prime Minister has led the work. We also need to take the lead in driving forward the technology development the world needs to achieve its goals. The government's commitment to carbon capture and storage with Longship is one of these. We have many green shipping measures in Norway that help to drive the necessary green transition. We're looking at sea wind and the support the government gives to it, and you can also see the opportunities we have to have a more environmentally friendly aviation, just to mention something. As was pointed out, it is also about taking care of more nature. In the autumn, the Convention on Biological Diversity is to be negotiated internationally, and Norway has become part of the High-Ambition Coalition against that negotiation, where we say that we should follow up with 30 pst. protection in Norway and 30 pst. protection also of marine areas, in line with the rest of the world. We need a good management of 100 pst. of our areas. We need to follow up on climate action in Norway. We have just adopted a climate communication and presented a climate plan, and we are going to reduce emissions in Norway by 50-55 pst. towards 2030, in cooperation – close cooperation – with Europe. To be able to achieve those goals, 50 pst. reduction in Norway, we need to have reductions in all sectors. It will be within the petroleum sector at least 50 to 60 pst. reduction by 2030. Then you have to have electrification, and you have to look at how you can also reinject emissions directly into the seabed. Industry needs to reduce in the transport sector, and land use changes need to reduce emissions. In order to reduce emissions, we need to be part of international cooperation. As the perspective notice shows, the EEA Agreement is absolutely fundamental to Norwegian business, which is essential for the green transition we need in the years to come. We need to be part of Europe's green give. I have to say that it gives cause for concern when so many parties want us to get out of the EEA Agreement, in a situation where the Left believes we should rather go into the EU and become a very central part of the cooperation. One thing is whether the EEA Agreement comes into play, but when we look at the discussions in Stortinget over the last few years, there's a continuous discussion about which directives you want to veto, whether it's Acer or it's railway packages or others. I think it would be a great advantage if in the years to come we were able to hold those discussions to the Storting and that they would not become a reality. In the perspective statement, there is a good basic tone, pointing out that we have a very good state financial situation. SPU is one of the world's largest financial funds, and we have high employment in Norway, we have low unemployment, we have a high level of education. At the same time, there are challenges that the room for action is expected to be smaller, and that we are growing older and need more in work. We have to meet that by building skills. We have to do it from kindergarten, through growth, through school. The left has built up under this with free core time in the nursery. We have now presented a completion reform by the Ministry of Knowledge. It is important that we be able to develop skills throughout our lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e904	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e910	As Elvesuen was aware, Norway has a high level of employment compared to the vast majority of countries. One of the reasons is that we have an inclusive working life, where the parties take responsibility for more people having the opportunity to work. A support bar in it is the health pay, which makes you have a security even if you experience a disease. The left wants to cut the sick pay, and of course it has made strong reactions. Especially unmusical is that it happens in the middle of a pandemic. At the same time as the government encourages people to be at home if you experience symptoms, you have to cut your salary if you stay at home instead of pushing yourself to go to work. I have trouble understanding the logic of it, but perhaps the representative of Elvesuen can explain: Why did this proposal from the National Conference of the Left come in the middle of a pandemic?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e917	No one's going to suggest cutting off the sick pay now in the pandemic. This is a programme proposal, and sick pay is not part of the government cooperation that we are part of. But it is now that we have far more on health-related benefits in Norway, including people who get sick pay, while there is nothing to suggest that we have a population that has a worse health than countries that we can compare with. Obviously, the health pay system in Norway is very good, but it is also very expensive, and it makes us have far more on sick pay than countries we can compare with. Then left is a party that believes that we must actually discuss this. We have to be able to go in and discuss how we can better arrange it, so that we get the expenses down, but also that there are more people who are at work and are not caught up in such a situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e926	We would like to take that discussion, because one of the reasons why we have a high level of employment is that you also have a security under disease. We also have a high level of employment for women compared to many other countries, and we know that sick leave is higher among women than among men. We also hear many tell about the late effects of the pandemic, of covid-19 infection, and that it can take a long, long time before you get back – if you come back again. Several people say that it varies greatly whether you feel good or bad – maybe you can try out a job, maybe you have to go out again – and that it will change. Although the pandemic one day is over, it may be a process of several years for some. Does the representative of Elvesuen think it would be fair for these people, in addition to the problems they experience, to be punished with cuts in wages?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e933	There is no one in the Left who believes that we should have a poor sick pay scheme. We're going to have a very good health pay scheme. But what we need to look at is whether adjustments are needed there as well, because we have so many more on sick pay in Norway, and there's nothing to suggest that we have a population that has a health that is different than in the societies we compare with. This is also about giving priority to those who need it the most — especially those who have a long-term picture, who need it the most — rather than all having the same scheme. Here, too, it says that we have high expenditures, and we need parties that have the courage to look at what adjustments we can make.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e940	I'm going to raise another matter that I know is very important to the Left, and I respect the Left for that. It concerns the settlement of refugees. We're going to receive 3,000 refugees every year. Estimates show that the cost per refugee through a lifetime is about 20 billion. kr. That is, we incur life-cycle costs of about 60 billion. kr every one year. For such sums, we could help millions of people elsewhere in the world. At the same time, we see that many of those who are accepted here live in permanent poverty. A survey we have received shows that about half of those who have come with a refugee background live with low income in Norway. Then the question to the representative is whether he thinks it is a sensible policy to spend so much money on helping a few in Norway when we could help so many more around the world, while many live in poverty in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e949	I think it's important that we look at the whole picture. It is important for the Left that we are part of a cooperation in Europe, the Schengen Agreement, that we have free flow of work, and then we have it with refugees and migrants. We are also involved in a cooperation in Europe on Europe's external borders, and there are fewer people crossing the border now than it did in the past. But as an answer to this, it is important for us that quota refugees, people stuck in a desperate refugee situation, also have the opportunity to get out of it. Taking 3000 of them to Norway has been an important breakthrough for the Left. It gives a new opportunity, and it gives opportunities in Norway for a lot of individuals, but we also give a lot of support in the areas where they come from. That's why it's also important for us to maintain 1 pst. in aid, so that we have a whole set of policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e954	The representative of Elvesuen used a lot of his articles on the need for conversion, both in Norway and internationally. At the same time, we see that in recent years Norway has become more oil dependent than before. We have a trade deficit from mainland Norway other than oil and gas that has gone into an increasingly negative development – from minus 248 billion. I guess it was in 2013, to minus 401 billion. kr. in 2019. Strong efforts are needed on the mainland to facilitate new jobs, value creation and new industrial travel related to renewable resources and green carbon. The Centre Party has proposed a green state investment company in order to invest, enter into equity and facilitate woodworking, marine or food processing. Why has the Left not taken a positive view of such a measure in order to make it more effective in the field of renewable solutions and value chains in mainland Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e959	What we've done is we've made that transition easier by getting a green tax shift. There has been a lot of complaint today that we have increased the fees in Norway by 7 billion. kr. There are environmental taxes on the one hand, and there are taxes on both individuals and businesses on the other. Otherwise, we have strengthened the whole instrument towards a green shift – both the Research Council has received increased funds, Innovation Norway has increased funds towards the green shift, Enova has doubled its support scheme from 2013 to today, and we have also put Nysnø in place, which is helping to invest in green conversion. So I believe that there is one field where we have really delivered on measures, that is because the state supports under environmentally friendly industrial development, which has lower emissions, and which helps us to achieve the climate goals by 2030.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e966	As I was in my post, the conclusion in the perspective statement regarding Norwegian oil production is crazy, because it is said that the expected fall in production on Norwegian base will be greater than our commitments to the Paris agreement. Researchers from Cicero have pointed out that these estimates are highly uncertain, albeit not problematic, both because they misuse the median from the scenarios of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, because they have very optimistic estimates of carbon capture and storage, which depend on political action, and because they use the global average of oil production rather than the one more relevant to Norway — the OECD median.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e971	So my question to the representative Elvesuen is whether the Left agrees with Cicero that these estimates are highly problematic, and that therefore we have to draw a different conclusion as to the future of Norwegian oil production, than the perspective statement suggests.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e974	It's probably 65 pst. reduction by 2050 – these are estimates. I think it's going to go faster, that the reduction is going to be larger and will have to get bigger by 2050, also because the Paris Agreement is dynamic. By 2020, countries have notified their new targets. New targets have to be notified again in 2025. That also applies to us. And as the impact of climate change becomes more obvious, I am absolutely sure that the pace of reducing it is also going faster. For the Left, it is important both to take advantage of the tax advantages now enjoyed by the petroleum industry, also the package from last year that was far too good – we have to make sure that we do not have a subsidy on the petroleum industry – and to go into the new allocations on new expansions, which we believe must be drastically reduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e982	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e987	I thought I'd start with one of the better quotes about perspective in politics, and it comes from an American named James F. Clarke. He said that what characterizes a politician is that he thinks about the next election, while statesmen think about the next generation. At least I'm going to try to put a little bit of heaven over the debate we're having right now. The perspective message is one of the debates we have during a big period, where we can take a little longer perspective, where we can stop and say what works well, and which we are forced to manage wisely because we have a lot to be thankful for, and what challenges we as society face – and not just in a perspective where one thinks four years, but where one thinks 30, 60 and 90 years in advance. I mean, the perspective message that's made up does just that. She can both draw the historical lines of what makes us as well-developed a welfare society as we do in Norway, and show us some of the challenges we have if we're going to be a generation that, when we look at our children and grandchildren in the eye, can tell them how we manage the welfare community in a good way. Many of the things that are good, there is reason to thank and act wisely. One of the good examples of how one in Norway has managed to develop that perspective is above all the oil fund, where one in principle has established that it does not belong to the current generation, but is something all the Nordics should have a right to. That is why we also have the rule of action, which must ensure that the fund will in principle last forever. But we also have a country that has relatively high employment, and we know that even though our oil fund is large, the value of the North's work is considerably higher, and we are forced to manage it wisely, where we make sure that everyone gets involved and no one gets left behind. We have a country that has small differences, and this is above all about having a country where we've managed to make sure that there's trust between people and authorities, and that there's trust between people and authorities. This is one of the things that I think is the basis for thanking and thinking wisely about how to manage, but when we do, we also have to recognise the challenges we face. In the notes, there are several of the parties that saw many question marks as to whether one is too pessimistic in some of the projections underlying the perspective message. What I mean is a little scary way to go. We know that we're going to have an ageing population, and that the proportion of those who are at work is going to be smaller compared to those who are going to be cared for. There's something we're forced to take seriously. What we also know is that the expectations we have for the welfare, standard of living and supply of the public are not going to be reduced by the generations that are now getting older. That's the one challenge. Another is, of course, the climate change that we are forced to go through, and in the long term, they are also an increasingly falling birthplace perspective that is at home in a debate on how to manage our welfare society. So this is something more than just managing our wealth -- it's also a debate about what we want with all of our money, what we're going to live for, and not just what we're going to live with. When we deal with the perspective message now, it is quite clear to me and to the Christian People's Party that we are also forced to point in one direction for how we can create a viable welfare society. The main headline for how we're going to do it is that we're forced to include more, and it's about being forced to make a green transition, where we invest the big money in the ones that are the least. In the perspective message that was presented now, it's the first time that it mentions the need for early action, and it's one of the areas that has been raised and strengthened through political priorities, once we've had the plurality that has created state budgets in recent years. What you've done is to step up your efforts to make sure that everyone has the best possible start to life, and what we know is that there's money that helps people get stronger in the meeting with life later, and that's the most sensible investment we can make. And then we're forced to have a debate about how we can turn some of the negative trends that we've been through for too much time. One of them is increasing inequality. Then it's about spending the big money building up small differences. It's also about using the money early in life and making sure the employment is high. And it's – in such a debate – just about making sure that the perspective is far enough, that we're not just thinking about four years, but thinking about 30, 60 and 90 years in advance. It's about the next generation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1004	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1009	Again, the Christian People's Party has taken a step away from the line of work, at its national meeting. Expensive plumbing and missing calculators are many now connected with the Christian People's Party – also threatening that the welfare state will be strengthened by people's being at home. Does the representative think that this is in line with the message from the Christian People's Party's own government: that more people have to work and spend less?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1014	Through the contribution to the Christian People's Party in government and once we have created the state budget before, we have strengthened the employment and the measures that will make it pay to stand in the job, often to criticism from the Labour Party – when one goes through some welfare arrangements and ensures that they are set up in a way that allows those who are willing to work to gain a financial gain from it. But it's also possible to think more about employment. When we see a steadily falling birth rate in a country that does not lack prosperity, and when we see some of the priorities that the Labour Party and others do – yes, I get a little worried and a little worried. Earlier in the debate, I addressed the Workers' Party's proposals to cut back some of the family members who have the least. The answer then was that the Labour Party would strengthen some of the familialists who had the most! That's the opposite of what we need if we're to turn some of the inequalities that our society is in the middle of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1019	Strengthening the nursery economy is precisely giving all children equal opportunities to go to a nursery. But what I want to do a little bit about is the income of the municipalities in the future, because they're very important, and it's also clear from the perspective. According to the government party, the local economy is both very good and strong under this government, but nevertheless the property tax, which we also discussed in the previous case, is increasing from 8.9 billion. SEK in 2013 to SEK 14,7 billion. kr in 2019. Also in municipalities that are run by representatives of the government party, the property tax is increased. What is the reason why the representatives of the government around the local government also vote for increased taxes on property?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1024	The reason why people vote for something in local municipal government, regardless of what the question is, is that they think it's best for their municipality, and those priorities I think the individual local government representative should be allowed to make his or her assessments and vote on the basis of. But the image that the representative is drawing is not correct. It has been a long time since there have been so few municipalities on the ROBEK list as it is now, and measures taken by this government strengthen the income of the municipalities. And not only that: one has also introduced some longer and structural grips, most recently in the RNB where one has announced that one will bring a wind power tax that will strengthen some municipalities’ finances a lot. It shows with a concrete example that a part of the image that the representative paints is wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1029	Last weekend, the Christian People's Party had its national meeting, and we all know that can be expensive happenings. There were concerns about costs and all the pious desires that the national meeting promised the party that they would bet on in the future. Some of the participants indicated that they woke up to angry notifications of the decision of the lot. I expect the representative to know the situation. What worries me even more was the desire to limit that part of the business that has given us the most jobs, values and incomes, and limit the largest district job we have, namely the Norwegian base. The representative is probably painfully aware of what a decision to stop oil exploration, stop exploration will have an impact on the sector. In addition to thousands of jobs, the nation will miss out on large revenues. How has the Christian People's Party intended to finance its own policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1034	We have shown that in the alternative state budgets over and over again, and we show it through participation in a government that is capable of prioritizing and capable of building a welfare state and aligning our arrangements in such a way that we build the welfare state of which we are proud. We're also doing it in a way that strengthens Norwegian business. It's a project that we've managed to do – once we've created the state budget for the last time. Then I have to say that I am happy that I am not able to accommodate all the expensive national meetings of the Progress Party, which they also take directly into the main hall when they promise the North Norway Railway and come with oversupply in different pension schemes. I think we can easily find the balance between income and expenditure, but we have to do it with the right perspective. And in oil policy, I think it's time to ask questions when it's about some of the most external areas that are least mature – if the real time is in order that it's the areas we're going to base our well-being on in the future, with the great uncertainty that's attached to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1041	The representative, Mr. Storehaug, stressed in his speech that we need to look far ahead – 30, 60 or maybe 90 years – and on what is sustainable over time. For people around Norway, either a dwelling along the Vørdefjord, in the Inland, Trøndelag or North Norway, the perspective of the development of the community is a part of. What one has seen is an alarming development within is a decline in the population of very many municipalities in Norway. In 2019 there were 300 municipalities with a decline in the population. What one has seen under today's government is that one has had a state-run centralisation, one of which has reformed reform, which has helped 260 municipalities have lost 6,000 jobs in decline, while 10 municipalities have had almost 13 000 in progress. Does the representative see that this development can continue over time, or does the representative consider that there is a need to turn and go in the opposite direction?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1046	Thank you. This is a big and good question, and I can't give the representative an answer as well as he can, in a minute. But I can draw up some perspectives that I think are important. We have to be able to make sure that we have a policy where the state is not a centralizing force in itself. It's both about how to strengthen all three levels of government we have in Norway, but perhaps more about how the state allocates its own state jobs. The centre party has had some proposals in connection with some government budgets that have contributed to cutting jobs at Leikanger and in Förde. I think that's the wrong policy. But I think that the representative and I actually share a common commitment that we're forced to do something about a part of the negative population trends. When you see the Norman selection and the NOO they presented, there's one thing I think is particularly worrying. It's that before, the trends were that one had large children's coal in the countryside, but the challenge was that more people move to cities. Now the challenge is that people move to cities, but one no longer has large children's coals. So the demographic challenge that we're facing then hangs on to those degrees of family policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1056	The sum of the proposals proposed by the Centre Party is that a kutter in state bureaucracy, especially in the major cities, facilitates more jobs around Norway. What I asked the representative, Storehaug, has as a basis the development you have seen in recent years, partly when the Christian People's Party has been a supporting party to the government, partly when the Christian People's Party itself has been in the government. One has seen a very strong centralisation, and the district industry committee points out that the country is perhaps the main player in centralising jobs, to a greater extent than private business. Does the representative of Storehaug not see that there is also a challenge for local business and housing in many places around Norway when the state is so far away, instead of being able to participate and contribute as an engine in ensuring new development and growth in different areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1063	However, in the proposals put forward by the Central Party in connection with the former state budget, a proposal has been made to cut government jobs in Lillesand, Förde and Leikanger, and there are not large cities. There are places where the workplaces mean a big difference, because they make it possible for people to move home again and, in the best case, bring someone home again because there are jobs there. Some of what this government has done is that one has continued the important work of moving out state agencies, so that we ensure that the state workplaces are distributed throughout the country. It is a policy that we are forced to continue – not like when the Center Party and the Red-Green put in the government offices, when they hit the handcuff and finished this important work. State workplaces are a little dirty, to take a nice picture. It gives you the most fruit when you spread it evenly.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1070	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1075	The future image painted in the perspective message is well known. The population is getting older, health and care expenditure are increasing, oil revenues are falling, and far from it threatens the so-called need for funding. The government's solution is to plan in the public sector and ask people to work longer. But then there is something going on, because the message also estimates that Norway will be much richer. We've seen a doubling in productivity in the last 40 years. It will continue to grow in the decades to come. If we read the message, we will also find the following: ‘As we have become richer, we as a society have made choices to get more leisure time.’ Then it's a little strange that the Right insists that well-being is threatened, and that none of the future growth can be taken out in terms of reduced working time. Sanner has even waved a warning index finger in the media and said that: ‘A six-hour day will break the welfare of Norway. Regular families can get 170,000 kroner in reduced wages and salaries, in addition a tax bill of about 40 to 50 thousand kroner on average for the family.’ It was a gloomy prediction, so we asked the department to get a fact-finding of Sanner's doomsday claims. The answer was that Sanner did not tell the whole story. The message shows correctly that a normal family in 40 years of age will be able to earn and consume 60 pst. more than today, if we work as much as we do today. So far, so far. But at the same time, we also see that the same family will earn 25 pst. more after tax than today, even if the working week is reduced to 30 hours a week. If Sanner had asked the Norwegian people if you want to work 20 pst. less in the week and at the same time earn 25 pst. more after tax, I also think many Right-Choosers even in Bærum would answer a clear yes to that question. A six-hour day won't break the welfare, as it's said, as little as the 10-hour day did, or the eight-hour day 100 years ago. There are different perspectives on the road ahead, but the figures show that there is a large political space to give priority to different combinations of strengthening common well-being and more leisure time, if we switch parts of estimated growth in private consumption, and that is a policy choice. That's good news. Red therefore suggests that estimates be presented in the next state budget showing the consequences for a normal family, what people will be left with in the account if we implement various reforms to reduce working time, or if we want to strengthen well-being, rather than just a single-eyed focus on continuing growth only in private consumption. The number of class distinctions in Norway has increased over a long period of time. Red's main issue is to reverse this, but then the debate on differences must be conducted with open cards, not empty talk. We know, for example. that wealth inequality is growing strongly, and many agree with Red that this deserves a political discussion, because collecting wealth on a few hands also leads to the accumulation of power over society in a few hands. The 300-page notification mentions only in passing that the distribution of wealth is more biased than the distribution of income. It bears witness to a fear of touch. As a reference to new research which, according to an SSB researcher, shows that income disparities in Norway are on the way to American levels when taking the ownership income of the country’s elite, it is only quite dry that this study assesses how the distribution of income is affected, and nothing about the actual findings of the research. The government’s presentation of the differences in Norway is ironing out. Red has several proposals today that could contribute to greater transparency about the real differences in Norway. I am pleased that an overall opposition is behind the proposals – with the exception of the Progress Party, which does not want the knowledge of the class divisions to emerge clearly as the basis for an informed political debate on this. With that, I take up Red's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1105	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1112	Our most important task in the future will be to get more people to work, create more and make Norway the best country in Europe to start and run a business. Red on its side wants us to work less and tax more. I have previously tried to get an answer to what Red will do for private value creation – without luck. But now Red has read the perspective message, which states that we need more jobs in the private sector. That's why I'm optimistic and hope that it's going well at last, that we actually get answers, because everyone can't actually work in the state. Does the representative share the goal of Norway as the best country in Europe to start and run a business? What are his three most important, concrete measures to help more private entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1119	President, do I get an hour? - It has to be the short version. Red wants a Norway with value creation, with new activities, with more justice, less differences and also a climate-friendly transition. We believe that some of the key to it is to put an end to the state allergy that has been embossing the Right and other parties for very many years. Our own history shows that it has been a great success to achieve growth, industry, technology and innovation that the state is in the leadership of new industries. We saw it in its time with the creation of Statoil, which was a forward-looking political decision. The ten oil bids, which we want to mark the 50th anniversary of here in Stortinget, show that one can have strategic, long-term ownership of the state's government, which in turn gives jobs and value creation, and not least that profit falls to the community rather than that it goes to the enrichment of a few private owners instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1126	I heard ‘state’, and I heard ‘oil’, which Red will otherwise lay down. I note that finding out until Red's businessman's policy is a bit like looking for a needle in a maximum shaft, just that the needle isn't even there. Many are betting everything they have on creating jobs in the community, but are being met by Red with a shoulder pull. As Red's first candidate in Rogaland, it said: ‘Whether it is risky to be an entrepreneur is unprofessional. First, there is probably not one group in Norway that is more state-aided. Secondly, we need to understand what the risk is: you didn't get to start the business. You lost 100,000. Search’. With those attitudes, it may not be so strange that Red has no business policy, so I want to give the representative a new chance to put on the table some concrete measures for more entrepreneurs and not least to distance themselves from these cutting-edge opinions on Norwegian entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1136	I can come to point two of the reasoning. One was that we've been successful in putting the state ahead of creating new jobs, new technology. Today, there are very few politicians and parties who want to learn from our history. What we need is an offensive industrial policy that ensures work and value creation in the future, not only a vision of being a tenant, living on the yield of the oil fund, but also using some of the oil fund to invest in new industry, new infrastructure in Norway to equip us for future value creation. What is really risky in Norway is not being an entrepreneur. That's where I agree with Kristjánsson. But if you, for example, Depending on the welfare state's services, Nav, it can be very risky. Then you can go to jail, you can't do it, you can't do it, you can't do it, you can't do it, you can't do it, you can't do it, you can't do it, you can't do it. Risk is likely to be unevenly distributed, but mainly affecting the most outlying and not those who are entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1143	The perspective message points to the importance of our being more at work, and that more jobs are created in the years to come to finance public expenditure. Red also points to it in its comments in the setting. Nevertheless, Red proposes to increase taxes by 30 billion. kr. The huge increase in taxation is mainly to be financed through increased taxes on wealth, a wealth tax that we believe is unfair. It only hits Norwegian farm owners. Foreign capital is free of charge. Had Donald Trump owned an industrial enterprise in Norway, he would have avoided taxes on wealth on working capital. If the owner is Norwegian, he would have to pay a property tax, and it is independent of whether the company is making money or not. This is money that could have been used to invest in businesses and to secure and create new jobs. So my question to the representative of Moxnes is, why does Red think that Donald Trump or Chinese owners are going to get billions in tax advantage from investing in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1159	It is almost touching to hear the defence of the wealthiest in this country, which they very often go out and defend – a party that is in addition to letting the Chinese or Trump buy up and own most of the Norwegian forest, if they get what they want with their primary policy. We have seen that for many decades the Progress Party has been following both Thatcher's and Reagan's policies that tax cuts to the rich will lead to huge growth in the workplace. They've been trying on this for six to seven years in government. They cannot prove that there has been a new job due to cuts in the taxes of the richest. If you want new jobs, you also need investment, not least from the state, to get new industries up. There's the Progress Party state allergy, we're aware of that, but it's more effective than just cutting the taxes on the rich. Then the rich get richer, but there won't be any more jobs for that reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1168	As far as taxes on wealth are concerned, it is not the richest ones in Norway who suffer from it. They're the ones that have small businesses that are going to be able to do so far. They have enough to pay wages, they have enough to charge themselves, and then they get the property tax, and they have to use the overdraft to pay it. But my question was – and now I want to answer it – why Red believes that Donald Trump or Chinese owners will get billions of dollars in tax benefits from investing in Norway. That was the question, and I want an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1175	Red has never been in favour of tax cuts, either in China or in the United States. That's what they have to do in China and in the United States, and as far as I'm concerned, Biden is doing this with the United States. We are not to use insanely low taxes on the rich in other countries as arguments against fair taxation in Norway. In our scheme, we're increasing today's base deduction from 1.5 million. NOK to SEK 1.7 million. kr. Then we'll go for those who have over 100 million. kr in wealth, and that, President – and the Progress Party – is not the most people. Most people have either negative wealth or less than 1 million. kr in wealth. Most people get less tax and less taxes with Red's arrangements, while they get more with the Progress Party's arrangements. I am very sure that Red stands for a fair tax policy, unlike the Progress Party, which wants to give tax cuts to the richest – year after year after year.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1184	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1189	The perspective message gives us an opportunity to raise our eyes on current issues and see the long lines of social development. Fortunately, there is broad agreement on the objective of maintaining a strong and well-being society for future generations as well. We will take care of a society with little differences, trust and cohesion. If we are to succeed, we must be willing to recognise both challenges and find solutions that guarantee well-being. In the decades to come, there will be fewer working age behind each pensioner. Government expenditure will rise without increasing revenue as much. At the same time, we have to implement the green shift. Oil and gas activities contribute to revenue, jobs and technological development and will continue to do so for many years to come, but the golden age of our petroleum activity is soon after all the sun brands. We can no longer expect an ever-increasing flow of oil money into the state budget, nor can these revenues finance an ever-increasing share of public expenditure. The government's strategy to address these challenges is to create more and include more. Our main resource is the value of our workforce. For each of us, participation in the world of work is essential in order to contribute, participate and live an independent life. Work is the best insurance against poverty, social differences and exclusion. Therefore, one of the government's main steps towards a sustainable welfare society is to include more people in the labour market. Inclusion is primarily about giving everyone a chance to succeed in creating a good life. We therefore prioritise early school and kindergarten activities and provide better follow-up for vulnerable children, young people and families. We have put mental health and drug treatment at the top of our priority list and provided faster and better help. We make sure that more young people, adults and immigrants can acquire the skills they themselves and work needs in the future. We have started an inclusion program to give more people who are outside, a chance to get into work. In this way, we do something about the causes of exclusion and social differences, so that more can be included. Some try to tell a story that inequalities in Norway are now increasing strongly and are in line with the situation in the United States. It's obviously wrong. In fact, the inequality measured by the official Gini indicator is significantly lower in Norway and declined slightly between 2017 and 2019. In fact, we have a fairly stable redistribution through the tax and transfer system that reduces the income inequality by about 40 p.p., and publicly funded services that reduce the inequality by about 20 p.p., according to figures from 2015. Norway is among the countries of the world with the lowest social inequality, and so we want it to remain. I agree with those who point out that well-being is an investment and not just an expense. But that's exactly why it's so important to make sure we have something we can invest with. Private sector value creation is not the opposite of, but a prerequisite for, well-being. We need a strong and diverse business. Competence, good framework conditions for business and efficient infrastructure are important to achieve this. Some think we can solve the challenges of the future by forwarding large extras to taxpayers and businesses. But this will reinforce the challenges, not solve them. We have to create more, not more treasure. Norwegian business needs to have room to invest, innovate and create new jobs. When we need more labour in the future, the solution is to do it more, not less, profitable to work. Although a strong public sector has served Norway well, we must constantly ensure that we use the resources effectively. The government has implemented a number of measures to renew, simplify and improve the public sector. One of the main measures is digitisation, providing better services and efficiency gains. We have implemented an ABE reform that has released significant funds for priority welfare measures. We have provided new solutions, such as: New roads, which open the way faster and more cost-effectively. I note that some parties criticise the modernisation of the public sector, without even coming up with a credible alternative – how they themselves will ensure that public resources are used more effectively in response to new challenges. We can't steer into the future by looking in the rear-view mirror. If we want to maintain a strong public sector, we still need to be willing to develop and improve it. The alternative might be that it's getting confused. The perspective message is not primarily about us sitting here today, but about ensuring a welfare society for our children and grandchildren. In the vote, some parties show that the increased burden of dependants in the coming years will not be a problem, because we were in the same situation in the 1970s. But we have to remember that society and well-being have evolved considerably since then. The 1970s cannot be the ideal for society in the 2040s and beyond. If we're going to create a good society for today's children, we're going to have to look forward, not backwards. It requires not least that we succeed in implementing the green shift in a way that ensures both climate and nature and provides new jobs and opportunities. In the perspective statement, we show that a policy of value creation and follow-up of our ambitious climate goals is not opposed to each other, but can go hand in hand. We must manage our values and our common wealth to the best of future generations. The pension fund and the action rule ensure this. Overall, the government has spent less oil money than the long-term guideline of the rule of action in the period 2014-2021. The government has prioritised knowledge, growth-promoting tax relief and infrastructure. It provides the basis for future value creation. When, in the last year and in times of crisis, we have used more than expected returns to secure jobs and good living conditions for those affected, it is also in line with the rule of action. But there is no doubt that when the crisis is over, we have to bring down the use of oil money. If we don't push an even bigger bill to our children and grandchildren. The Perspective Communication shows that in the coming years, we cannot simply add new public expenditure to the top of the budget. We become like other countries and must give priority to tougher. Nor can we just pass the bill on to others, hope that the challenges pass, or bet that an unlikely large profit in the financial markets will save us. Sustainable development requires policies today to ensure the well-being of future generations. It will require that we provide a good school, close follow-up and good health care that gives all people the opportunity to succeed, participate and contribute. It will require that we learn our whole lives, so that we can stand longer at work, and that the idea of a six-hour working day be scrapped. It requires that we give businesses and businesses greater space to create values, not less. It will require that we follow up on the pension reform and not undermine and erode it. It will require that we not only propose new and millions more for good, but that we ensure that the billions we already spend provide the best possible public services. It will require major changes to succeed with a green shift that creates jobs and opportunities. It will require us not only to be tight with money to solve today's problems, but that we are also rusty enough to hold back to give our children and grandchildren the same good opportunities that we have had. Yes, there are some major challenges ahead of us, but then we also have the world's best starting point for success.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1227	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1232	The perspective message presented by the Minister of Finance shows that the space for action is shrinking to nothing within a short period of time until 2030. It is sad news for politicians who have ambitions for Norway. However, it must be particularly demanding for the Minister of Finance and his party, who will vote on the use of 7 billion already in the next major period – by 2025. to remove the property tax on shares. At the same time, they shall cooperate with Sylvi Listhaug and the Progress Party which will devote a further more than 7 billion. kr, a total of 15 br. kr, to completely eliminate taxes on wealth. My question to the Minister of Finance is how to fund these cuts in the wealth tax – if the cuts are between the tax policy of the Right and the Advance Party, which fiscal policy has largely done in recent years – between 7 billion. kr and 15 br. kr in budgetary impact over the next few years, with budgets that are already out of action.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1239	It is quite right, as the representative points out, that the space for action will be reduced in the future. It will require tougher priorities from all parties, and there is no room for the great tax relief in the years to come. If we are to finance the welfare of the future, we must also facilitate the creation of value in the private sector. It is in the private sector that growth has to move forward, and it is quite interesting that the Workers' Party has given a tax guarantee to foreign owners. The working party guarantees that non-resident owners will not receive a higher tax. At the same time, they have given a promise to Norwegian private owners that they will pay more in taxes. Yes, it is right to drop the tax on working capital for the fisherman who owns his own fishing boat, for those who run the yard and hotels. We need strong private ownership to finance the welfare of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1246	I'm recording that the Minister of Finance thinks 7 billion. kr in taxes on wealth is not a large tax cut to be implemented in the next few years. An answer to the question could be to step up ambitions to get more young people to work. On questions from the Labour Party, the Council of State and the Government respond that they do not envisage increasing employment among young people in the years to come, among other things. because developments have been so negative in recent years of right-wing rule that it is an optimistic assumption in itself that employment among young people should not be reduced. But because of this, there must be other plans to finance this planned continuation of a weakened budgetary balance sheet, as the major wealth tax codes are, and a deterioration in government finances. The question is what welfare goods are to be cut. The right said nothing about sick pay in the party program last I checked. Now the Left Cooperation Party is going to vote on it. Er on the menu for the next ageing period to cut sick pay in order to finance the cuts in property taxes?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1255	No, the right is not going to cut sick pay for the employees, and the representative knows that well. We've been holding on to that for eight years in government. We have also shown in the government that we can facilitate value creation, while at the same time providing a good community economy and not least good welfare arrangements. The representative becomes a little too simple, because the government's strategy is not to get more young people into work. He confuses what are technical projections in the basic option and what is political strategy. If we look at the proportion of young people unemployed, it grew the last working party in government, and it has continued in our period. It says that this is not an easy challenge to turn around. However, we have put in place many important measures, not least the priorities of mental health and drug care, and the implementation reform that we are about to implement. I have faith in that will help more young people get to work and fewer young people go into disability.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1262	Over to another challenge. The finance minister said in his speech that we need to create more, and we need to get more at work. That's exactly where we agree. So the situation is that we spend about 15 billion each year. kr on integration. The results so far show that there are very many immigrant groups with a low labour force. It is a challenge for those involved, but it is also a challenge for the financing of the Norwegian welfare society. I see in the comment in the perspective statement that it is assumed from the government that this will turn around and make a positive contribution, and that we are dependent on continued immigration. There are different perceptions of it, and then my question to the Minister of Finance is: What are the main measures that the government is looking at in the future to really realise that conclusion?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1272	The representative Limi is quite right that it has been a challenge for too few to get into work. That is why I took the initiative in an integration reform, which is the second reform of integration policy. The first was Erna Solberg when she was a municipal minister, the second I took the initiative. It's about knowledge, it's about Norwegian training, it's about competence. We see that Norwegian babies with immigrant background make an impressive journey through the Norwegian school system. Several complete high school, more take higher education, we see that Norwegian babies with a migrant background have far higher participation than their parents. It tells me one thing, that Norwegian knowledge and knowledge are the way to a successful integration policy, and we were involved in starting up. I am pleased that we are going to implement it, so that more people can participate and contribute to the Norwegian community.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1277	The council said in its statement that it is important to raise your eyes and see the long lines. Of course, for people around Norway, it is important what kind of a future perspective one has on the development of their societies. What we've seen in recent years is a powerful centralization. In 2019, there were 300 municipalities that had a decline in the population. There are many different reasons for this, but one important reason is an increasingly strong state centralisation. The District Industry Committee has pointed out that the centralisation of the country — and of other parts of the public sector as well — is greater than that of private business. The right-wing rapporteur in Bø in the Vesterålen, Sture Pedersen, said that 'the state has left us'. Why has it been reasonable, the Council of State, to make such a strong state-driven centralisation, which means that even right-wing rapporteurs believe that the State has left them and does not lay the foundation for growth and development in their areas in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1282	To facilitate ‘growth and development in their areas’, the Inland and North Norway have had strong growth during this period, with low unemployment – not least North Norway as the engine of growth they are. The representative doesn't look very far back if he claims and believes that centralization is just something that's been going on for the last eight years. No, there have been long, long trends backwards. If we are to facilitate housing throughout Norway, we need to facilitate good public services. Therefore, we still need community reform and to ensure good welfare services where people live. That is why we have implemented a police reform to ensure a strong and good modern police force that can solve today's crime challenge throughout Norway. And that's why we need the EEA Agreement. And we need a strong business life that contributes to growth and development across Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1289	It will not be growth and development when the state withdraws as strongly as it does today, when even the Right-Rapporteurs say that ‘the State has left us’. And what's the challenge with that? Well, of course, it also weakens the basis for those communities that are there to facilitate growth in both the public and private sectors in the future. That is, of course, the big challenge of the powerful centralisation, targeted, as the government today has done, both municipal reform and regional reform – and a police reform that led to a strong closure of Länsmann’s offices, removed the police present and led to an increase in response time in many places around Norway. This leads to increased insecurity, leading to job losses, leading to enhanced centralisation. Why does the Council of State think that one should continue this development instead of having a plan to develop the whole of Norway, as one has had at several crossroads in previous times?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1294	I simply believe that there are not many who recognize themselves in the black paint that Görlsvik is now using. We have good growth and development across our country. We work with the public services to make sure they're stronger where people live. Many Senterparti rapporteurs took the lead in the implementation of the municipal reform. Many Central Party rapporteurs have joined other municipalities precisely because they see that they need a stronger municipality to deal with both today's and not least future challenges. We in the government have helped to move out more government jobs because it is important that we have good skills jobs across our country. I hear the representative says the state has left us. But it's not the state that's going to save a highly developing District Norway. It is about making value in the private sector, ensuring that you have skilled jobs, and ensuring that you have good welfare services. This is the way to develop Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1301	The Minister of Finance took the time to stress that Norway is among the countries with the lowest inequalities. But the reality is that it's wrong. It's wrong to include retained company income, and you should, because that's the income of these people. Then you see that the 1 pst. The richest in Norway receives about 20 pst. of all income. It's on the level with the United States. But the claim is equally wrong if you look at wealth inequality, because then we're on the level with the United Kingdom. The revenue growth has in reality been extremely uneven since 2013, and it is the gap between the 1 pst. The richest in Norway and the rest of us are increasing dramatically. They have been helped by a regressive tax system for them at the top. So shouldn't the Minister of Finance worry about the increased inequality rather than use the figures that suit the government to tell a story that inequalities don't grow?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1306	I am concerned that we should address the causes of inequality, not the symptoms. That's why we prioritise a good kindergarten, good care for those who need it, and a good school to ensure all equal opportunities. Then it's true that the wealth in Norway has increased. That's the result of a good development in private business. We should be happy about that, because it makes it more money to invest in new jobs. But this comparison with the United States is going to be completely wrong, because it is not possible to say that for Norway, withheld income is to be taken into account, but in the United States, it is official statistics. This compares apples and pears. And to add retained profits: if that money is taken out – yes, they are taxed on dividends. The fact that the money is kept in the company allows the company to be better equipped to deal with recession and crisis. That means you can have muscles to deal with future challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1313	What we're discussing here are inequalities and whether it's a problem for Norway itself that we have very high and growing inequality, and especially that 1 pst.-- one subtracts from the rest, 99 pst., at the top. In that case, kindergartens are not an adequate answer. Retained profits in companies, you're going to have to count on looking at inequalities, and that's not just in companies. It is largely in holding companies that this has been withheld, and then it is completely irrelevant for the differences to be taxed on dividends. The reality is that wealth and income in Norway are extremely distorted, and it has become much more distorted over the last few years. This means that Norway has an increasing inequality. We know from all available research that it is very negative for today's social development, but also in the long term, and it should upset the Minister of Finance. I have to say I get worried, because I hear here a government that has gone back to recognizing that the inequalities are growing, and are less interested in actually taking it over than before.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1320	That's not at all the basis for that. But I have to say that I am surprised that SV is more concerned that someone has built up a fortune by investing in Norwegian jobs than we have poor children, and that we have many children and young people who do not get the follow-up they need. If we're going to create a society with opportunities for everyone, we're going to have to start with the kids and make sure they get a good school so they can make it to work. It's wrong to take in retained profits in the company when you look at the differences in our society. This is when companies that have retained profits. It helps companies to have bigger muscles, to invest more and to be in a crisis. If the money is taken out, dividends are also paid out of that money.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1327	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1332	The news of perspective never becomes a newsstand, but it's interesting reading, and I get to congratulate the Minister of Finance as a sort of editor, we get to say, of this message. That's a lot of interesting facts. Much is uncertain when you look into the decades ahead, but there is still something we can say with certainty: most of what we want in our society depends on people working. The most important figure in this perspective message I found in the pie diagram that shows that three-quarters of our national wealth is made up of people at work. So it's not the oil, salmon or hydropower that has made Norway a rich country – there are people at work. And if we were to point out a bet that really counts, it has to be this: that work for everyone is job number one. Behind us we have a period of greater economic space than we've ever had and probably will never get back. What has the right-wing government done in these years? In this area, I would say too little, and it shows their own perspective message. It's warning of clouds, not in the horizon, but here and now. We have lost both the tet position and the pallet space in professional participation in the OECD. While participation in employment has increased in the countries around us, it has remained silent in Norway. Erna Solberg would make Norway less oil dependent, but the trade deficit outside oil and gas is more than doubled on her watch. The number of young people on disability insurance has also doubled under Erna Solberg. It's not good for the individual, of course, but it's not good for the community's calculations either. In the future, there will be a need for stronger leadership and a new policy course if we are to be able to solve the major challenges ahead of us in the 2020s. We're going to take care of the elderly, we're going through a comprehensive climate change, we're going to preserve a society with little differences and high trust in a world that integrates and digitizes at a high pace. These problems must and should be solved in a fair way, and that puts ordinary people first. It's about creating jobs, about enabling people to take the jobs, and about making sure that the jobs are whole and firm and give a living. This requires policy. It doesn't come of itself. The right-wing belief in tax cuts for those with the most passive industrial policy and cuts, flat, in our common well-being, does not get us there. If we are to create more jobs together, it requires a much more active industrial policy with ambitions and action. We need to achieve targets on emissions reduction, export growth and jobs. In that case, the State must be an active participant, such as the demand for goods and services, actively exercises ownership and supports the development of technology. If we are to jointly qualify people to take jobs in a constantly changing working life, at each crossroads, young people have to meet a community that provides more for them, with several skilled employees and a team of professionals around the children in kindergarten and in common school, and in their youth a quality promise in secondary school, an apprenticeship guarantee and a promise to young people that the help will be readily available when butter – in the health sector, in the education system, in the education system – early efforts are also needed when it improves mental health. Throughout your professional life, it must be easy to get the skills required when the job changes or disappears. Should we jointly provide for full and permanent jobs in a serious working life? The report shows that if we succeed in full positions, very much of the unrest the Minister of Finance is using every opportunity to underline, is well relieved, because then we reach our goals. But if we're going to get there, it requires a major cleaning in parts of Norwegian working life and a government that sees the significance of the Norwegian model, which does not recognise the unorganised working life and cuts evenly in the trade union deduction. The perspective message shows very clearly that work to everyone has not been the number one job for this government, even though I read at TV2 that two of the Right National Councils use the Workers' Party's good old slogans – well, they say something about the quality of it. But they've understood little, because none of our major challenges are solved by the market alone or by hard work or tax cuts to them at the top. A new and more fair course is required, and it has the Workers' Party's ambition to strike out.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1352	The crisis we have been facing in the last year has reinforced the underlying challenges in the Norwegian economy, trends that challenge the financing of well-being in the coming years. The Korona crisis has, if possible, made the need for conversion even more urgent and has also shown us the value of a competitive Norwegian business, the importance of jobs in private companies, for nine out of ten lay-outs have been from private enterprises. Fortunately, we had strong economic muscles and reserves to resort to when the crisis struck us, and we will continue to have powerful measures as long as it lasts. Today, there are four active persons per pensioner. By 2060 that number is going to be halved. Oil and gas will no longer be the main engine of the Norwegian economy that it has been in the last decades, nor will it be the main source of saving for financing future pension expenditure. That is why we must continue to convert the Norwegian economy from an oil-powered to a green economy and ensure that we have more legs to stand on. If we do not take active action and facilitate increased value creation, the tax burden on businesses and ordinary households will have to increase significantly in the years to come. The handles we have to do now while we have time, don't wait until we're in a forced situation. It is a responsibility we have for future generations. That means that if we are to maintain today's welfare level, more people have to complete the school. We have to include more, we have to get more out of work, and more people have to do more work while getting more out of the resources we use in the public sector. Furthermore, we need to facilitate increased job creation, value creation that can contribute to the state budget, not jobs financed by the state budget. Then we must have good framework conditions for the business we have, and for those who have new ideas, entrepreneurs who want to take risks and create new, profitable, smart green jobs. We will do this through early efforts, through increased quality in school and by ensuring that more students succeed in school. And we're going to take a boost for vocational training. We're going to use the world's leading expertise in oil and gas industries as a springboard into a green economy. We're going to reduce emissions, but don't stop progress. A green policy should not give a red bottom line to businesses, nor should it give people concerns about their own private economy. That's why it's important to say that we don't turn off the oil taps. Oil and gas industries will continue to be an important part of the Norwegian economy for many years to come. Nor is it that more taxes automatically mean more well-being, as some believe. We've reduced taxes and taxes by 34 billion. kr to facilitate increased activity and growth in jobs across the country. We've been simplifying business for 28 billion. kr. A normal family has received NOK 66 000 in tax bills since 2013. It also provides more well-being. At the same time, the number of teachers has increased, the number of secondary schools has fallen, there are more policemen than before, the defence has been manned up, we have doubled the appropriations for transportation and build more quickly and reasonably than before. The right also wants a society with small differences. The biggest difference is between those who have a job and those who are outside. And of course, those who have the most should contribute the most, and so do they. They contribute more now than under the red-green government. The good policy works, because it is still such that the values must be created before they can be distributed. It seems that several of the red-green parts have forgotten. It is alarming that several of the red-green parties go to elections to increase discrimination against Norwegian ownership. What it will lead to is an increased trend in which the state and foreign capital are dominant in Norwegian enterprises. The left-hand side's response to the challenges is more country and more tax. It's the last time a crisis-capped Norwegian working life is needed to get out of the kneeling after the corona. For the right, there is a tough course and safe management that applies, a policy that ensures growth and jobs, that ensures companies access to markets outside the world, that has a generation perspective, and that ensures that we are at least as well prepared economically the next time we are put to the test.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1371	It has become very common to point to a more limited space of action in the coming time, a more uncertain and more challenging future in the perspective messages. There can be much in just the awareness of the need to always strive to be better, smarter and more effective. Norway should have all the opportunities to win in the future. We see that we have an innovative business life, while having a highly educated and highly competent population. That's a good starting point. But then the authorities must also show that they can be smart, innovative, and more effective. Climate is an area where Norway and Norwegian business can have good opportunities, but cooperation between authorities and business needs to be facilitated. We have now decided to impose excise duties on Norwegian industry. In the negotiations, we refused to make any premises that would serve Norway, because we believe that we are getting away too cheaply. We want to carry out the electrification of Norwegian base – even if we see that this is expensive, even if we see that it prevents the creation of new business, even if we see that it can lead to higher power prices, and that it has an immaterial impact on climate. This is not smart, it is not innovative, and it is not effective. Through cooperation with the EU, which is our main trading partner, we should be as coordinated as possible to provide Norwegian business with the same framework conditions as our competitors in the EU. We will also be able to take advantage of Norway's advantages in cooperation, not just its backbones. It seems to me that the government does not see the same effect of climate action as the EU does. The EU is talking about introducing a carbon tax because they see that climate action they want to implement can result in the closure or relocation of their own business. That debate is absent in Norway, but that is the debate we need now. The Progress Party has delivered its own climate plan, which shows that it is fully possible for us to meet all our international obligations, while at the same time providing good framework conditions for our business. The petroleum industry is among those who may feel uncertain. It's rare they're referred to as part of the future. It is important that we support our main industry, create security and predictability for an entire industry. Then it's no use that we have government parties and members of the government running around and talking about exactly that – end date, changed framework conditions or limited access to land. When we see that the youth chooses away from the industry, it's very serious. This not only poses major challenges for the industry, but also efforts to establish more bones. If we are to succeed in sea breezes, marine farms or minerals on the seabed, we are completely dependent on the knowledge and competence of the petroleum industry. The desire to electrify Norwegian capital is very expensive – not necessarily for oil companies. Actually, they can make money on it. Equinor has probably suggested a cost of about 50 billion. kr on their installations, and then it is not good to know that the bill of 40 of these billions is sent to the taxpayers. On land, we now experience an explosion in demand for power, and using our power on the base could prevent the start-up of industries on land — in addition to the fact that less power can lead to higher prices. I see there are several creative parties that are going to solve this whole problem of establishing sea windmills. MDG alone plans to establish around 2000 wind turbines by 2030. It is the average of 15 to 20 sea wind turbines each month up to 2030. I actually refuse to believe that they believe in it themselves. In addition, when we have an NVE to grant concessions to the wind turbines and believe that the first wind turbines can deliver power at the earliest in 2029, one might like to challenge both the Workers' Party and the Center Party: what do they want to do to realize what they themselves are writing about? If Norway is to contribute to climate change work, we should first of all forget electrification and rather strengthen the work on the action that has the greatest climate impact in European cooperation, namely the supply of gas to Europe. It is the largest contribution Norway can make in order to contribute to the implementation of the Paris Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1394	A message such as this should primarily point forward so that we can take the necessary steps along the way to avoid the actual reality of the most dangerous outcomes. That is why a message like this is very important because there are also some of the nicest bureaucrats in the Ministry of Finance that help to raise and direct the road further. But just as well, even the very best professionals we have, can't know everything about what's going to happen in the future. We know something anyway. We know that we have to make dramatic reductions in CO2 emissions. There, the Stortinget has also committed Norway to reduce or actually halve emissions by 2030. The second thing we know is that technological development makes our everyday life change in a lot of areas for the better, but also that many are going to experience a new kind of insecurity around the job they've had for years, and they're proud to do. That's why it's also that some of the most important answer to just dealing with a situation where we know we're going through these changes is to bet on knowledge and competence. In a working life that changes, it must be our clear goal that no one should go out to date in Norwegian working life because of lack of knowledge. That's why we really have to do three things. First of all, we have to make sure that our children get basic skills in place early in school. It's always been important, but it's going to be even more important in the future, because that's how you also have the prerequisites to acquire new knowledge. The second is that we have to train more people for the jobs we know we're going to need in the future. In the public sector, there are particularly health and care professionals, and we need to train more teachers. But also in the private sector, we're going to need more good trade union workers. We're going to need more technologists, and we need more people to train in real science. The third thing we have to do is to make education available to more people – both flexible and decentralised. If we believe that people should learn throughout their lives, it must also be possible to learn, no matter where you live, and no matter what phase of life you are in. To take the first, the basic competences: it's very difficult to be critical, to acquire properties, to learn what you care about, if you don't have the reading, writing and calculating skills in place. That is also the prerequisite for completing and passing high school. I find in Norwegian policy that politicians across the political scale have been committed to increasing implementation. But just as we know that we're going to need more skilled workers, we should be further concerned that we know that the drop-out is the biggest in the professions. That is why we must ensure that we also train more skilled workers. If we do not deal with the needs we have, we will lack 90 000 skilled workers in Norway in 2035. But we're also going to make sure that the professionals can create new businesses or work with completely new and exciting things that we don't even know the content of right now. Therefore, technology, innovation and research will be important. One of the big issues to decide on very soon is whether to continue to participate in the very important research cooperation we have with the EU through Horizon Europe. If we participate in it, it will also give our technologists, our researchers and our companies access to a fantastic market – not only in money and customers, but also professionals who can help develop Norway further. The third thing we have to do is – as I said – to make education available to more people, because when the world changes, more people will also need to take new education even if they have a great education at the bottom and are proud of the job they do. That's why we've been focusing on everything from Competence plus, which makes employees like, for example, have poor Norwegian or weak knowledge in digital skills, can learn it while they are at work. Together with our partners, we have developed an industry programme that allows us to develop the competence of the industry's premises according to what they think is necessary. And we have created more and more flexible and decentralised education services. Now during the coronary crisis, 4,000 more students have signed up for this type of education, which allows people to take education throughout their lives. Finally, the fact that we have now proposed a permanent regulation on how to combine education with daily allowances also allows more people to gain the skills they need to get back into Norwegian working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1425	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1430	The Council of State stated that we must have dramatic cuts in CO 2 emissions over the next few years. Of course, the Labour Party fully agrees. One of the main instruments of the government of Asheim is part of, is to increase the CO 2 tax strongly in the years that come. One of the main criticisms of the government's climate communication that was presented earlier this year is that the communication so little mentions how climate policy should be fair. It is interesting to hear a member of the government’s view of how to use the revenues generated when increasing climate taxes in the years to come, as one must if one is to achieve the climate goals. For the Workers' Party, it is clear that there are ordinary employee incomes and other taxes to be cut, while we see that in the programme to the Right, which Asheim has had a lot to do with, a cut in the property tax is numbered a little over 7 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1443	I can inform the representative that I now have the pleasure of chairing the editorial committee in front of that national meeting. It's a job, too. But to start there. That's quite right: our main approach to reducing CO 2 emissions, and not isolated to it alone, but a main approach, is of course that emissions of CO 2 are going to cost more. It has to be compensated with both lower taxes on income – we have done that in our period of government, and that is what we say we will continue to do if we are re-elected – and the second is, of course, to ensure that we use the income we receive, for example. to compensate in such a way that we have capitalised Enova, and we have Nysnø, who invests in new ideas and businesses. The sum should be such that if you choose environmentally friendly, make the environmentally friendly choices, you will be left with more money because we have a tax exchange. What's my impression of the left-hand option is that they're going to increase both the green fees and the red taxes, and then there'll be less to people most.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1458	With the Workers' Party's tax arrangements, ordinary employees will be left with several thousand dollars more per year than today. Otherwise, I would like to express my condolences regarding the editorial committee that the Council of State has been entrusted with. - No, of course not. I'm going to go on to some of the points the Council of State was in on in its article. He talked about knowledge and competence, basic skills and training more to jobs we need – good points, so far, and policies that will get more young people into work in the long term if we succeed. But now we've seen the last eight years — and it's been a long-term development — that we're getting more and more young people pregnant. We get an increasingly large group in our society that doesn't get into the world of work. It is negative for each individual and for the community. My question to the Council of State is whether he has a strategy for getting more young people into work in the short term – in the next major period and up to 2030, and not just the long-term measures, which are very important in themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1469	Let me just start by reminding the representative that it is possible that his party is proposing 7 billion. kr in tax increases, but with the tax increases from the lots with which they wish to cooperate, the increase in taxes far exceeds what the representative suggests. So how to get more young people back to work. On the one hand, I sincerely believe that increasing secondary school education is very important. Just to get a diploma in place, we also do – we know – a lot to get to work. But in addition, we have e.g. the obligation of activity imposed in such a way that Nav is to initiate action after eight weeks for young people entering the Nav system. It means meeting expectations, but also offering activity, varying levels of competence, etc. And that's point three, that when we change the legislation permanently to make it easier to combine benefits with education, for many young people, it can be what they need just to get the first job and thus get into the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1476	The Council of State mentioned the need for more skilled workers in its submission. The figures from the SSB and the NHO expectations barometer show that we need 100,000 new ones over a relatively few years. We have to train more, and we have to get more through the education cycle. The Progress Party has just proposed a new profession to train more skilled workers in Norway. Does the Council of State agree that we need a new profession for vocational training?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1483	Yes, I am absolutely, and I think it is important in several areas. Now it is important to remember that we have done some things, even in the time when the representative's party was in government, for example. making the common subjects in the professional field more practical, more labour-related, simply and simply. In addition, on the one hand, more young people are choosing a profession now than before. It's very good, but the drop-out in the profession is far greater than in the preparatory study. On the one hand, I think, it may indicate that the advice on which line you choose is too weak. I think too few people pick the right line when they're going to pick high school. The other thing I think is very, very important to get in place, is to make sure that more young people get interest in the professions earlier in school, for example. the possibility of learning a little more about what offers are available and what opportunities are there. For perhaps the safest education you can take is to become a Norwegian skilled skilled worker. Then I can guarantee a job, I know that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1492	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1498	When the Workers' Party says it's now the turn of ordinary people, there's three important reasons for it: It's fair, it's good for society, and the Workers' Party is the common people's interest party. While rich people have earned a lot on the right side's tax model, people with ordinary wages have had more expensive kindergartens. It has become more expensive to be a member of a trade union, and it has become more expensive to commute. We pay taxes and tolls like never before, and people with challenges have been burdened with petty cuts in, among other things. clearance of work and support for children's glasses. It's unfair. The working party wants everyone with income below NOK 750000 to pay less in taxes and the millionaires more. We want cheaper kindergarten and SFO. We want to double the union deduction, strengthen the commuting deduction and introduce the pension from the first crown now. With the Workers' Party, ordinary people get to keep more of their own pay. That's fair. It's also good for society. If we're going to get the wheels back on after the pandemic, one of the most effective things we can do is to make sure that people with normal wages get more to walk with. It creates greater demand for goods and services, which brings up employment. Taxes on wealth waste the Community's resources and reduce the contribution of the rich to the Community. The action space is disappearing. The government has weakened the community by over 34 billion. kr. The country's richest tax rate is 10 billion a year. kr. By 2030, an action room of DKK 0 is expected, and by 2060, according to the government itself, there will be an unmet financing need above the government budget of about SEK 5 billion. kr annually. The legacy of Erna Solberg is that the financial robustness of the state is significantly weakened. The right-hand side leaves a record high unemployment rate. They'd rather blame this on the pandemic, but the truth is that the right-wing government before the pandemic came, at all, didn't give priority to increasing the effort to get the whole people to work. Labour market measures and efforts to create jobs stood at rest on the ground. The government even has a large cut in Nav – about half a billion dollars. Nav was in crisis before the pandemic. Worst thing is going on with our young people. Under the right-hand government, we've had a double in young people, and 110,000 young people are out of work. The most daunting thing is that 60,000 of them are outside of everything. They're not in education. They're not in social assistance, and we don't know how they feed. It's a scandal, and for those affected, it's a tragedy. It's people we'd like to have in our working life, people who would have liked to have started their lives. The Labour Party will therefore have a large-scale reform to bring more young people into the labour market, where everyone has a real opportunity to complete secondary education, and everyone who starts a professional course is a guaranteed apprenticeship, and where young people who are outside work or education are followed up and not left to themselves – alone. When they get to work, they will meet a working life that offers full, permanent jobs and a salary to live on. Then we have to bring the employers with us, because it is a paradox that while working life is screaming for labour, there are 200,000 Nordics without a job. This shows us that Norway needs to become more self-sufficient in labour. The way out of the country’s crisis must therefore be the way to the entire permanent jobs of our young people. After eight years of right-wing majority, Norway is heading in the wrong direction. Increased differences destroy the trust we rely on, and have made Norway one of the most successful countries in the world. In addition to the fact that it is wise social development to work for small differences, the Workers' Party believes it is a value in itself to have small differences and that we have the whole people at work. That's what Norway is dreaming about, and it allows each one to follow their own dreams. Therefore, work for everyone has always been the number one job for the Workers' Party. After eight years of wrong politics, we need a fairer Norway and a government that says it's going to be common people's turn.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1521	Knowledge is crucial for politicians when we're going to make good choices, and the perspective message can give us a lot of useful knowledge to get the course going. But getting a good knowledge of the costs of immigration has been a year-long struggle. Many years ago, Carl I. Hagen began to ask for good estimates of the effects of a long-term, high-level immigration into Norway. It's been countered from all teams from the very beginning. Unlike all other policy areas in which politicians fully agree that it is necessary to calculate costs, to determine, to calculate the impact of the policy on immigration, it has been considered as a right view to know as little as possible about the impact of immigration policy. Fortunately, this has improved. We have put in place good calculations now, and in the perspective report, there is a lot of good news about the long-term consequences of high levels of immigration. It is clear that the subjects in the Ministry of Finance have done a good job and continued the work that we got started at the Brochmann II Committee. But it looks like there's a difference in the perspective communication between the experts in the Ministry of Finance and what politicians have come up with from editing and conclusions, because under the chapters on immigration, the conclusion is totally crazy. It has been estimated that an average non-Western immigrant will cost society about 11.4 million. kr from a life-cycle perspective. However, the Ministry of Finance is able to conclude that overall, long-term high migration and associated reduction in the demographic distribution burden contribute to slightly lower coverage needs. This means that persistent high levels of immigration are better than the opposite, contrary to what trades union economists in the Ministry of Finance have expected. This has contributed to debate on a number of different media in retrospect of the presentation of the Perspective Communication. The answer from the Minister of Finance has been that all immigrants who come in the future will not come from poor countries. Some will come from countries that are more similar to Norway, and that is probably quite correct. However, there is no evidence that future immigration into Norway will change significantly from today. Then we once again have to base our knowledge. The SSB has calculated this many times and says that net emigration will increase from the countries most similar to Norway, while 85 pst. future immigration will consist of non-Western immigrants, which, according to the Ministry of Finance, costs 11.4 million. kr per person. Then it's strange to conclude that way. It is not just the Progress Party that has reacted to this. Espen Henriksen of the Institute for the Financial Economy at BI said this: "It's like we're out for a cold winter night on Thinset and freezing. Then someone comes with the same professional weight as the Ministry of Finance and asks us to pee in our pants to get warmer. And without telling us that we'll get even colder. When that happens, the answer according to their ‘logicals’ will only be to pee more’. – It is a very good description of the disproportionateness between the experts in the Ministry of Finance and the conclusion and solution of the Ministry of Finance. It is also quite different from the line that was led when the Progress Party directed the Ministry of Finance. We then aligned the policy with the professionals. Now you want to decorate a little bit on that truth and come up with things that don't add up. I find it quite alarming that the Minister of Finance is trying to present a picture of the future that is decorated, perhaps trying to influence the policy until we do not take into account what the professionals are saying. That is why I understand very well that more people with the Advancement Party have reacted to this very chapter, and I hope we will hear another tone from the Right in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1541	Last spring, the chairman of the Right Programme Committee, State Council Linda Hofstad Helleland, said that when they were writing the Right New Programme, they were going to take less account of the green shift because of the Korona, to talk about the green shift came from a time when they had the luxury of saying no to tens of thousands of jobs. What tens of thousands of jobs this government has said no to is probably the 200 000 unemployed in Norway, but above all this statement shows that the government does not keep up with the hour. There is no contrast between work, climate and nature. On the contrary, they are mutually dependent. If there's something we're going to learn after the Korona, it's that we have to be better prepared for the crises that we know are ahead of us. The climate crisis and the natural crisis are the two major crises the world has been warning against for years, and we have few years to act. The climate crisis is not future scenarios; it is here and now. We need to adapt to a wetter and warmer weather, with all that gets to say for our agriculture, for fisheries and aquaculture, for water and sewerage, for flood protection and perhaps most of all how this will affect the world and help more people to escape, that we have more crises and more conflicts. The Climate Risk Committee concluded that an uncertain world is the biggest risk facing Norway and that Norway has to complain that an increasing proportion of the action space will be eaten up by climate adaptation by 2030. The positive thing is that there are many people who have understood this. There are many who have understood how much time we have. Norwegian industry and Norwegian trade union movement have understood this for the most part and are calling for much more active policies. The European Union has its green hands, and with Joe Biden in the White House, we have really got a president who's going in front and wants to decarbonize the American economy. The same thing happens in many countries in Asia. The world economy is becoming renewable, circular and sustainable. It is only positive, but Norway must also stick with it. If Norway doesn't come with us, we'll come back. That's why the Labour Party says that we want a more active state, as we see the countries around us, a more active industrial policy that leads us to where we are going. We'll bet on hydrogen, on the capture and storage of CO 2, on the cleaning of our industry, on sea wind and on green shipping. We want to join in creating new Norwegian industrial adventures. This is becoming particularly important as there are other countries that do. It is bad for the climate, it is bad for the workplaces, and it is bad for the Norwegian economy if we are not on the road that is now going at a fast pace. This means that the Progress Party is so fundamentally wrong when they say at their national meeting that we should not meet the climate goals because Norway alone cannot save the world. No one has claimed, but we are going to achieve our climate goals. We're going to do our part of the job to keep Norwegian business going in a rapidly changing global economy. The Labour Party wants a fair climate policy that cuts emissions and creates jobs. Climate policy must be fair because it is an objective in itself, but also because it is fair, can help to increase popular support. This government is pursuing a policy of increasing disparities. When government policies are targeted at increasing the differences between people, it also makes Norway less adaptable. The Labour Party believes that the social partners need to have a more central role, because they are the ones who are out of business and know their everyday lives the best. In the government’s climate communication, the social dimension was not mentioned in a word, nor is it the responsibility of the social partners. The Norwegian model has been a success recipe for creating jobs and well-being. It must also be the recipe for meeting climate change. The Labour Party today proposes a national Climate Change Fair Council. Here, the parties will contribute with knowledge and be involved and take responsibility. So we put the climate around everything we do. When the Workers' Party has made government budgets during this process of expansion, we have created two alternative budgets. We've created a budget that shows how we spend our money, which shows how we put welfare ahead of tax cuts, and then we've created a climate budget, which shows how we're going to achieve our emission targets. In many ways, the climate budget is even more important than the economic budget, because a wrong priority in the money budget can be made a year later, but a discharge has been made forever. That is why, in the government position, we want to create our own climate budget and climate accounting, and we want to ask for every decision we take, just as we are today asking about the economic impact, about the climate impact. It's meeting the most important challenge of our time. Every generation has probably felt that you live in a time of destiny, but rarely has it been as true as it is now. The world is facing many crises, but they're only solved if we solve them together.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1563	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1568	The representative, Kaski, was somewhat indignant about the fact that SV's policy was often misinterpreted. I listened to Mr Kaski's contribution: more well-being will reap the benefits and value of the economy. This new theorem of Kaski looks smooth beyond the assumption that welfare can be strengthened and further developed, we need to ensure that we have a private sector that is capable of carrying this. Public investigations and forecasting of the future economy are to be read with great interest. In 1988, the Norwegian economy was transformed by the public investigation, led by Professor Erling Steigum. It was very important to establish the rule of action, a rule that has served Norway well, where we have had a sober and responsible withdrawal of oil revenue. Now we're facing a new time and a new phase to begin. Oil revenues will be reduced, and the potential to close oil revenues into the State budget will be reduced. Politics is not just about fulfilling promises. Politics is also about explaining what you can't deliver and what you can't fulfill. Our wealth is largely based on our open economy. It's the exports we live on, not the imports, that can sometimes be led to believe. The EEA Agreement is central to our export industry’s access to the European market. Under the domestic market conditions, we have access to a market of approx. 430 million people, even after the United Kingdom has signed up. It's worth your while to work. The working line is fixed for this government. However, it is alarming that Norway is at the top of the OECD context when it comes to the proportion of the population who are unemployable and who are not participants in the labour market. That is why it is so important in the future to ensure well-being that private value creation is facilitated. At that time, it is also important to promote a tax policy that contributes to this. When one hears the left-hand attack on the property tax, one ignores the absence of capital that over many years will arise from the fact that Norwegian owners will become foreign owners and cannot reinvest in Norwegian companies. Instead, we have to live with the fact that there can actually be a few more rich people – people who have pledged farm and land and were willing to take risks and thereby create jobs. If we do not accept it, we may create a basis for more poor people over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1581	I heard knowingly that the representative of the Progress Party, Halleland, said that we would have the same framework conditions and agreements with the European Union as today. And that's good. But why did they then propose a week ago to notify us of the Acer? It's a little confusing. In the government’s 2017 forecast, there were up to several formulations that are actually repeated in the year’s notification, e.g. these: Norway has a good starting point, but the Norwegian economy is still facing significant challenges. In the last decade, productivity growth has been weaker than in the past and therefore needs to rise again if wealth growth is to continue. – Has productivity growth taken place in the last four years? No, no, no. The government has failed here. In 2017, the government wrote that for the next 10–15 years, the scope of action in fiscal policy will be much smaller than we have been accustomed to. Revenue must be raised or expenditure reduced. But what has the government done in the last four years? Well, it's weakened the income side through huge tax reliefs to those who don't need it. A total of 34 billion less, we now have to spend on better well-being – every year! We have a government that has not listened to itself, but done the opposite of what it itself said we had to. So now the need to tighten up is greater than it was four years ago. We all remember ‘new ideas and better solutions’, which were the right slogan in 2013. A weakening of the community and a larger armstroke for private people are not new ideas. It's a policy with deep roots in old, conservative thinking. The new one is an attempt to mask right-wing policy with a new rhetoric. Now they're talking about how important work for everyone and a fair distribution is. However, for eight years, the care of the rich has affected policy — lower taxes for those who are best placed here in the country, lower welfare benefits for those who are struggling with income and everyday living. The solutions offered by the government have not been better. What is left of this government of so-called reforms? Indeed, a fragmented rail sector and a regional reform with which no one understands the necessity or point of either, and an ABE reform that has cut budgets for establishments and prevents rational development and renewal. The modernisation of the tax base came through targeted investment and money for a demanding project, not through flat annual cut in framework appropriations. Now we have a new perspective message from this government, with an old message: we need to get more in work and fewer out of work. Productivity must rise. We need to transform business and strengthen the welfare community. That's a correct description of what we need. If we are to succeed, we need to meet the challenges of a completely different policy from what this government is leading, a policy that makes it easier from where we are, to where we are going, not heavier.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1609	The perspective message speaks its clear language. The pressure on welfare services is high, but will increase in the future. The economic framework conditions are getting tighter, and we are getting fewer to bear the Norwegian welfare. We therefore need a greater innovation capacity and willingness in the public sector. Innovation is about change and development. We have to think new, not just improve what already exists. Research provides a basis for new opportunities, but innovation can create a new reality. As politicians, it is our most important task to ensure that the population, including the future generations, receives the welfare services they expect and are entitled to. In the government's innovation message, it was revealed that there was too little research in Kommune-Norway. We need to know what we have in order to create what we want. The right-hand goal is to create more and include more. We cannot then be locked down as to who should be allowed to provide the services. Needs and opportunities must outweigh tradition and custom. Several actors have to let go. An organisation's capacity for innovation and development is about being able to and would combine different competences, resources and networks. Without a policy that facilitates innovative culture also in the public domain, we do not exploit the resources and competences of society for the benefit of the community. An innovation-friendly culture requires curiosity, openness and courage to learn from both mistakes and successes. Local action spaces, incentives for cooperation and dissemination of knowledge are required. That is why the Right's aim is so important to strengthen the local space for action and democracy. A stronger public innovation culture requires better back coverage in the big community for municipalities, county municipalities and other public institutions seeking innovative solutions. Without such support, we are barely able to bring up the pace of innovation in the public sector. There are good examples of offensive municipal bets. In Right-Handed Asker, the welfare lab is such an example. Asking the local authorities, what if Asker thinks that an investor is investing in people and not just managing matters? Ashes welfare lab is about moving focus from things to people. It has resulted in a concept that includes all welfare services in the municipality. It has shifted resource use from repair to prevention, where municipal resources are assessed collectively and not by sector, and where the inhabitants, the families are considered as co-investors. In the Right, we want sustainable welfare services. Then there is little use with the red-green recommuneration policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1622	The perspective message draws what I want to call a sober and realistic picture of Norway by 2060. It's not a doomsday prophecy, as someone has said. Norway has a small and vulnerable economy. When we heard the Governor's comment on the good results for the oil fund in 2020, we should hear carefully. The central bank manager was concerned that the yield from the oil fund could be significantly lower in the next few years. He said, ‘we cannot assume that the gain will be equal in the future’. Nevertheless, several parties choose to listen to this and rather bet that returns will increase rather than slow down by 2050. When Norway and the world open up again, we will not meet the same everyday life that we had before March 12, 2020. We know, for example. not exactly what the international markets will look like, and we are totally dependent on them – for both exports and imports. I talked to Odd here a day. He owns and runs a company that produces garage doors. He could tell me that the commodity price has gone straight to heaven. The wood went up by 10 pst. in March and an additional price increase of 20-25 pst has been announced. from 1 June. The steel price has increased by 60 pst. He now has to buy raw materials at a completely different price than the price he paid in the autumn, which means that the margins are falling on the products he has already agreed to sell, and for which he knows the market was willing to pay. As a result, the profits of the holding are much lower than those of the budget. The raw materials, which now cost much more than before, he has to put in stock to have something to produce from. This warehouse he has to pay taxes on. In order to pay the tax on working capital, he must use liquid funds or make dividends, on which he must then pay dividend taxes. The tax on working capital, which affects only Norwegian owners, will increase several of the parties in the opposition. I cannot, with my best will, see how increasing the tax on working capital can secure or contribute to a single new job in small and medium-sized, preferably family-owned enterprises, which we depend on. In 2035, Norway will need about 90,000 trade union workers. These trade union workers need apprenticeship space with entrepreneurs such as Odd or as carpenters, plumbers or agricultural mechanics, in the private sector, in order to obtain their professional letter. Then we cannot impose an unfair criminal tax on them because they are Norwegian owners in Norwegian companies. In order to minimise the differences in our society, we believe that one of the most important things we can do towards 2060 is to facilitate more jobs and include more in the labour market. Creating more and including more is no speck for the Right, but that's the way to live a good, long life.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1644	In the wake of a recent party meeting, the government has been criticized for viewing the older wave as a problem. This is, of course, a deliberate distortion of a statement by the Prime Minister. Let me therefore quote from the perspective message page 31: ‘It’s a good thing both for the individual and for us as a society that we live longer.’ I assume the quotation is representative of the Prime Minister's point of view. However, it is a fact that the proportion of the population over 80 years of age, which today accounts for slightly over 4 pst., will increase to 12 pst. by 2060. No government that does not recognise the challenges of this age development could claim the term ‘responsible’. This demographic development will obviously trigger demands for healthcare on a scale that we today hardly know the contours of, although we can already see the initial effect of the wave that hits us today. It's just asking our teammates. During this period, the government has presented the message Life throughout its life – otherwise with a Advance Party Council as a birth aid. This creates a picture of a new way of dealing with care for the elderly. The Prime Minister has every reason to be proud of the message, and I have at least not discovered that she intends to deviate from its content. We need to meet the mentioned wave of instruments that can be financed through growth, without cutting the contribution to the world's poor, while maintaining and developing the level of welfare. An example of such a measure may be the increase in the number of ergot therapists in municipalities, which have the possibility of postponing hospitalisation by several years. The government has also invested in preventive welfare technologies, and the potential to reap health benefits from such investment is significant. This bet must continue. In the near future, we will have to pay more attention to the psychosocial conditions of the elderly. A perspective of increased drug use could be a separate article, but I should just briefly mention that the use of psychopharmacies among the elderly is increasing in particular. In addition, the generation that is now losing a pension seems to have a surprisingly small idea of the adverse effects of, for example: alcohol. We're talking about the generation that grew up under a significant liberalized drug consumption, and there are now many who, in the absence of a meaningful everyday life, bulls for cardboard, tranquilizers and sleeping pills like self-medication. Harmful effects of drug use also among the elderly are to a large extent a symptom of mental illness. Therefore, we need to focus on new forms of housing, meaningful activity for the elderly, the fight against loneliness and good advice. Those who want to stay longer in work must have a chance to do so. Focusing on this is not making the aging wave a problem. I would rather use the word care – or the Left translates into freedom and opportunities for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1662	It's clear that one can put on a troubling my concerns when reading the perspective message. One can choose to focus on the problems. There is no mentality in the Right. We choose to focus on opportunities and development – developments that include the whole country, that involve and innovate, and that provide new, green jobs across the country. Thus, we have the greatest investment in history in green workplaces based on sustainable value creation. For this reason, we are reporting on long-term value creation from Norwegian energy resources, and therefore we are adjusting the tax egiment for hydropower. We roll out a hydrogen strategy with the corresponding roadmap that comes with the Energy Resource message, and we're busy keeping taxes low to secure jobs in the districts. There is also a historical commitment to catapults and clusters, and we are committed to transport and infrastructure that will bind our long-distance country together – from mountain to fjord, from north to south. We're strengthening the digital infrastructure, and we're lifting green maritime shipping. We use the technology potential that exploits our marine wind resources, and we rely on sustainable use of our marine areas through innovation in fisheries and farming. We present the circular economy in our own strategy, which provides business potential and sustainable development, and we put forward short-term food production, which ensures preparedness and job creation – throughout the country. We work for a training system that brings the skilled worker into close dialogue with the business community. Koronacrisa has taught us new ways of working. When the department now announces new jobs in Norway, one can sit anywhere in the country and be attached to a directorate or department. It will open up more flexible working methods, which will give jobs to two where the one must be localised in their work. All in all, we are equiping Norway for tomorrow. And Norway as a whole needs to be put into practice, because we see that competence and creativity are well distributed throughout the country, and the natural resources as well, and the districts become major contributors to the green shift. I'm glad that Right is a game that defines problems, but also looks for solutions. If we are to take Norway into a future, we cannot reverse, oppose and degenerate, as some here in this room seem to have as a recipe. We must continue to innovate, streamline and integrate. It takes Norway into the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1677	It's hard to see into the glass sphere. The working party's solutions to the challenges of the perspective message are primarily work. Work for everyone is job number one, and it applies in theory, in words and in practice. For this reason, the Labour Party will have an employment reform aimed at bringing more of the young people in today's jobless and educational system into the labour market. In this case, the taskbar must be continued and its strength strengthened, not weakened. The government should also have invested in today's young people instead of weakening the community of tax havens to the richest. The Labour Party will reduce the economic differences with lower taxes to most people, and then they with high incomes and high wealth will have to pay something more – a fairer tax that will help reduce differences. Welfare is an investment, not an expense. Public and private sectors are interdependent. It is the combination of services produced in the public sector and goods and services produced in the private sector, which strengthens the Norwegian economy in the future, not alone the growth of the private sector, as Right seems to believe. The Coronapandemic has really shown us the significance of a good and strong public sector. Setting up your own business over consulting and providing a whole set of options as well as the proper use of digital tools will further strengthen our public sector. Adding them needs more time and trust. Now the common people's turn. We need a fairer climate policy that is socially and geographically fair, where a cut-off emits and creates jobs while climate policy has legitimacy and can be implemented. Good example is an electric car policy that involves the development and charging infrastructure of the whole country that we finance with VAT on luxury cars. And we're halving the ferry prices along the coast. The fees are high for those with low and normal income. For this reason, we have launched our tax and tax promise, which leads, among other things, to: increasing the CO 2 tax is used to reduce the tax on labour income for those with normal and low incomes – because it is fair, because it is now common people's turn.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1702	The long-term challenges we had before the Corona do not disappear after the Corona. In the future, the perspective statement shows that expenditure is growing faster and revenue is slower, while we know that we are going to carry out a green shift. Before the virus outbreak, the government was about to correct the shooting. Unemployment was low, and more and more of the population came to work. New jobs were created in many different industries, four out of five in the private sector. Climate change emissions decreased, and the transition was under way. Then came the Korona crisis, the greatest trial for the Norwegian economy since the war. It has been demanding for many, but at the same time it has shown some of the most beautiful things with the community of Norway, that we stand up for each other when it storms. That is exactly why the perspective message is so important. It gives us important answers on how this should be possible also in the future, when we know that the space for action is getting smaller. One answer is left: Get more jobs. The value of our current and future labour input represents three-quarters of our national wealth. People in jobs are simply Norway's most important resource, and therefore we need a policy that in the future facilitates activity and growth, not more taxes and bureaucracy. Our clear goal must be Norway as Europe's best country to start and run a business: have a competitive tax level, better option tax, have TaxFUNN, strengthen Innovation Norway. In addition to creating more, we need to include more of the jobs we have, because today there is too much outside. For example, the socio-economic loss of one youth who never got to work is 16 million. kr. It's a huge loss for society, and it's the bigger loss for the young person involved. Therefore, the inclusion period must continue, we must bet on early efforts and get up to completion in higher education. And then we have to spend the money smarter. New roads and railway reform are two grips of many that make us get more out of the money, which we need more of in the future. As one of the generations that is strongly affected by the challenges we are now facing, I would like to thank you for the debate. With the Right, we're going to create more and include more.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1713	On the right, tax money will be used in such a way as to maximise the Community's return, in which case public sector resources will have to be used well and prioritised for the most important purposes. The resilience of the welfare society is challenged if the proportion of the non-working population increases, while others need care. Almost no matter how effective we are, age development will require significant growth in public money consumption in the future. This will be required. If we are to be able to achieve good and equivalent well-being in the municipalities in the future, we need strong municipalities with good and proper competence. The government has therefore started work on a more forward-looking municipal structure. This work must continue. So we have to have more people at work, as the previous speaker said. The most important thing for government finances in the future is increased employment. One increase in employment of 10–15 pst. by 2060 will be able to meet the challenges of funding welfare schemes. In this context, it is important to increase employment in several groups. Immigrants also have to contribute wherever they can. Good language training and good Norwegian skills are central to enabling immigrants to come to work and participate in society. Therefore, we are now demanding that they learn Norwegian more strongly. It's no longer enough just to attend some hours on a course. The competence of immigrants must also be better monitored and exploited. The new integration law entered into force on 1 January 2021. The introduction programme has been changed, so that a greater gap between the competences that one has when one comes to the country and the competences that are required in the world of work. It will also be important to limit the proportion of immigration resulting in a significant increase in costs for the country, rather than distorting resource use in order to help more and thus reduce the size of migration. Immigrants from Africa, Asia, Latin America and Eastern Europe outside the EU accept much more economically than they receive through the life cycle, from a purely government financial perspective. Immigrants from countries that are more similar to Norway, such as the United States, Canada, Australia, New Zealand and EU countries, spend more on taxes than they receive in the form of transfers from the public during life. These conditions are also well illustrated in the perspective message. It is important to clarify that the calculations in the message do not reflect a political objective, but are a way of showing how changes affect the development of the economy and public finances. For the Right, it is important that we help the poorest and those in need of protection, in the best possible way, to reduce the need for migration.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1734	Later today, the Stortinget will be considering a proposal from the Labour Party for a reform of trust for a strengthened Nav, and one of the main reasons for the proposal deserves to be raised in this debate. As several speakers from the Workers' Party have pointed out, the high level of unemployment gives cause for serious concern. There are more than twice as many registered unemployed at Nav compared to before the Koronakrisa hit the country. With trust reform, we mean, among other things, to give increased confidence that local Nav offices are best placed to take the necessary decisions to get people to work. Cooperation with local business is best done there, locally. In addition, Nav offices must be open. Those who stood far from the labour market before the pandemic are now, if possible, even further away. Digital solutions are good and good for simple tasks, but how data tools should be able to find accurate job-oriented measures to suit individual needs in a local labour market is beyond our understanding. So do the Nav employees. The Labour Party is particularly concerned about today's young people. There have been five new young people running out of work every day during the right-wing government. The number of young unemployed has doubled. According to researchers at the Frischsenteret, there is ‘tendence to an enhanced two-way division of the labour market, where the tendency to ‘fall out’ is quite stable, but where access to it is becoming increasingly difficult. [[again]] The working party believes that a take-off is now needed to halt this negative development. In the last ten years, participation in employment has increased in the countries around us, but remained still in Norway, making the way into the labour market particularly demanding for these young people. Well-functioning mental health services and lowthreshold services are essential. There are many good individual measures, but they have to be put into the system. The working party believes that diagnostics need not be required in order to obtain the necessary assistance and assistance. Some of these young people have failed to protect their children. Eight out of ten young people with developmental disabilities are left without anything after completion of education. The working party will give them 100 pst. job guarantee. We also want a job guarantee for young people with work skills who today end up with social security. Education works, but there must be several ways to achieve it, along with local work. They themselves will lack labour in the future, yes, they already do. And it has to be done now, in the local hub, with authority enough, before even more young people stay standing outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1745	There are many important and good qualities with Norwegian society. I would say so that I think the future is the light of Norwegian society if democracy retains its power and influence over development and we make the right choices. One of the fundamental choices that were made many decades ago, and that have contributed to the entire post-war period, I would say, is that it was generally accepted throughout this hall that there should be no great difference between people, that the future should be built on strong communities in Norwegian society, in this country that lies on the edge of Europe with its backs to the ocean. This has contributed to the success of ordinary people in Norway. It has helped to ensure that workers in Norway have their rightful share of social and economic development. It was these choices that were made in this room many decades ago, which left this foundation. What's the big perspective in today's discussion is that we now see that consensus cracking up. That's the big challenge. What has happened over the eight years we have now had a clearly right-wing dominant government is undeniable – even if the Council of State says what he says from the pulpit here – that the inequalities have become greater. I am, of course, disturbed by the economic development of workers in Norway, but I am also greatly disturbed by the cultural development of the Norwegian society for the future. The chairman of the committee, Kapur, said earlier in the debate that we need to learn from history. Yes, through the President, I turn to Kapur and say, "Yes, let's do that, Kapur." And then we have to learn that inequality creates unrest and weakens the value creation of society – for workers, but also for the owners of capital. It is and will be impossible for me to understand that the mantra on tax relief is what will create the basis for value creation and a secure well-being. That's the combinations. If we do not prevent the development of inequality for the future, Norway will not be a trust society, nor will we be able to maintain community and value creation for the capitalists, who are the Right Heartchild, obviously, as I hear this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1756	The perspective communication – the long-term programme of the former government – is important. Perspective comes from Latin: see clearly. People elected must have work capacity and the will to get a cant above the situation in Norwegian society, and then people elected must have leadership skills to streamline human and financial resources on what is most important to be done with. What works well, there's no point in spending a lot of time on it. So cant and total power. For the Centre Party, full employment, the fight against unemployment and the decentralisation of labour, power and capital and the use of the whole country are important slogans. Enterprise policy is central — creating more modern and profitable jobs. Norway has a unique opportunity to process renewable natural resources. Real green industries process primary industries’ products, whether cod, timber or thymote – fish processing, wood processing and the food industry can certainly account for at least 40 pst. of the industrial employment. We have to break the nutrient neutrality of the government. The Central Party has proposals for a green state investment company with drawing rights of up to 100 billion. kr to secure ownership with private – risk loans. There's something quite different than what the red-green government presented, the Investinor, in connection with the Tofte defeat. It's been a failure. The second point is to control the labour market in general. Elections must control labour immigration from outside the Nordic countries. A well-organised work life is a prerequisite for a safe family life. Demand for workers must be greater than the offer. Uncontrolled labour immigration from countries with poor pay and working conditions, as well as high unemployment, is like a torpedo midship on the main social-democratic base value. The centre party is a party to market economy and private ownership, but elected parties must govern the market forces and the content of this ownership. Throughout the history of the Centre Party, from 1920 until today, there has also been a position on all major issues, whether in the field of industrial and agricultural concession laws, the right to fall back on power plants, the law on the no part of the law on the working environment, the position of the European Union or the law on agricultural sales. In 1994, we got the EEA Agreement, without giving the people the EEA Agreement as a matter of fact in the 1989 Grand elections. Now we see the consequences. A new government must inform the Storting about what could have been the political solution if we had not had the obligation of the EEA Agreement, that is to say the exact opposite of the Gro Harlem Brundtland directive to the departments of 13 June 1988. The size must become more important. In the fall's decision-making process, there must be a choice of recruitment representatives who are willing to give all employees, with full or partial working capacity, the opportunity to live on labour income. It requires a system change, not a spell within today's political course. I would like to call for debate and public information, not least in the trade union movement, on these fundamental contexts.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1767	The government's policy over the last four years has made the way from where we are, to where we're going, longer and heavier. The government's policy has reinforced the negative trends. Community revenue has been reduced. There have been more and more out of work. The number of young people on disability benefits has doubled over the lifetime of this government, from 10,000 to 20,000. The proportion of persons employed is falling. We were at the top of the world. Now we're on the score slot in Europe. There is no smart fix to break such trends, but precisely because it is difficult, it should be a problem that a government turns large and small stones to solve. The working party has set the task for all at the top of its work programme. More jobs in a decent working life become the marshy soil from a new government to the autumn. The government has too easily understood the oil fund to get the budgets into port. We're going to use what's needed to overcome crises, like now, but the government's spent a lot of money all along, crisis or not crisis. It is our workforce that is the only sustainable way to secure and strengthen our welfare services. That's why it's creating new jobs and getting more jobs the main job in the future. The time for new welfare reforms is not over. It is an ongoing task to develop and strengthen care for children and young people, the elderly and the sick. These are tasks that are best and most effectively jointly managed. There is an urgent need to break the link between economic activity and climate change emissions. We have a big job ahead of us, but fortunately, the task also offers great opportunities. It is possible to cut emissions while at the same time creating jobs if we think about partnership between state and business. Finally, about the political landscape ahead of us: the Prime Minister's vision in 2013 was civil cooperation with four parties to provide a sustainable direction and safe governance of the country. What have we got? One of eight years of majority government — the political law of gravity no longer allowed several billions of masks from the pension fund to large and small heart things. In the last year, the government has barely sent a single matter of importance to the Stortinget, which is not bald and chosen. Even the Korvald government, on its narrow parliamentary basis, was not inducted into the Storting as this government has become. The authority is gone. That's why we need a new government if it's going to be ordinary people's turn.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1786	I will use my article on vision, hope and fear, of which most have enough in these days. Most of us here today are talking about the state's invasion needs. This containment need can only be met by others other than the State. Therefore, a policy that leads to growth and profitability in business, profitable businesses and jobs will be the solution. Then there is something that can give more jobs, higher, no lower profitability, greater income to the welfare state, no greater subsidies from the state. We don't have wands, but the seafood clusters have this potential. Estimates are forecasts, but many suggest that 60 000 new, additional jobs can be created in seafood clusters by 2050. If it happens, you might be able to talk about more, not less room for action – if you're lucky. This means that we have to have a competitive tax system, that we have to provide a good framework for aquaculture so that it can grow. We need to focus more on new species in aquaculture and fisheries. We need to put in place new technologies to make the processing industry more competitive and to increase Norwegian processing and to manage the stocks in view of future increased harvests. If we do this, we can quadruple the farm and increase the catch by 50 pst. To this end, the opposition is holding up four fs which can stop development before it is launched: ban, distortion, engulfment and confusion. Prohibitions, such as: against all emissions from aquaculture, will stop growth, make aquaculture impossible or unprofitable, and it will have a completely different standard than other activities. For example, distortions are: The Workers' Party's proposal to make the concessions to aquaculture on loans, or the Centre Party and Redtt's proposal on quota concessions for the fisherman if he sells the fish to them, is to resell it to the rest of the world unchanged. Experiencing is increasingly imposing new, expensive demands and new taxes that make the industry less profitable, making it less profitable for the owner to be Norwegian and better foreign. Confusion occurs when a request for a new notification of allowances is made just after the size has adopted one, and suggests the transfer of allowances between groups of vessels without being able to say what one has actually thought about, or when three out of five opposition parties will leave the EEA and a fourth is involved in assessing alternatives — what it is now. It's time to focus on simplification, not distortion, on research, not confusion, on improvement, not prohibition, on future and growth, not extermination and stagnation. Tooth control doesn't make sharking less, but more seafood can make people, state and sharks hungry.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1799	We have already been here for a long time and have been here for a long time discussing this perspective message – at the end of a big period in which we have had four different government constellations in a little over three and a half years. Things are constantly changing in politics, but one thing that is fascinating constantly is Right's creative argument about wealth taxes. There were some very good examples during the debate here today. The representative of the Rivers said that we had to accept a few more kingdoms to reduce the number of poor. The representative Linnestad argued that since there are so many apprentices who lack learning space, we have to cut the wealth tax – a very fascinating argument. And while we're sitting here, we see who's delivering the goods for. The evening item can tell that the country's richest turns up to ensure that tax cuts to those with large equity assets will also be the main priority for the next majority period. In contrast to this, the democratic bodies of the workers have been committed to supporting a new large number of people, so that policies can benefit the wider community. It's time for it to do after the harvest's choice. The right-wing prioritisation of cuts in wealth taxes, both in real policy and in the argumentation of this debate in the United Kingdom, clearly shows the need for a new majority to benefit the wide range of workers in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1810	The 2021 Perspective Communication is about the challenges Norway faces up to 2060, and government strategies to address them. It's about which society our children are going to grow up in and take over, and to me, who is now 64, it also applies to my grandchildren. When I read the perspective message, I started thinking 40 years back, until 1981. What happened then? Well, it was very eventful years for me. I had just completed my education as an engineer and had been employed by Statkraft. That's how I made 60 000 kroner. I bought my first apartment, and the interest rate was approx. 15 pst. The bus in Trondheim cost NOK 3 That's the same thing as 14 dollars today, if we had consumer price-linked it. I don't think so many people in 1980, 40 years ago, would've tipped right at how we're doing today, but it's going very well. Most people have had a good life in the last 40 years, and it's going very well. In 2060 the government believes that it will still be alive – there is no doubt about it. But there is one thing that needs to be solved, and that is the climate challenges. Maybe that's the most important problem. Several — most, in fact — in this room have mentioned the climate challenges as a major task to solve in the future. For example, within the transport area it is not just electric cars that we need. No, we need electric planes, we need boats – everything has to be electrical. We have to stop using oil and gas for transport. It's the visions and perspectives we have to put forward now, given that the future is electrical. We know it doesn't just pollute, but the technology is so much better. In fact, electrical technology is superior to an internal combustion engine. I'm very excited about the future as something changes, but something's going on. For the next 40 years I may not be able to experience, but at least some of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1823	We have a historically high unemployment rate in the country, and there are many who have had a long period away from social life. At the same time as we're going to fight the pandemic, we also have to start preparing for how we ensure that as much as possible get out of the pandemic and be included in common as schools, jobs and social life. It's going to be tough thanks for many. Experience both in Norway and internationally has shown that long-term unemployment can have a self-enhancing effect and lead to more out of work. There are considerable differences in the individual’s situation now, depending on whether or not you have a job to go to. The labour force is still our main resource, and it is the value of the work effort that will give us room for action in the budgets ahead. We have to make sure to build a good bridge back to a society that looks like what we left in March. When the unemployed remain available for a long time, they stop being part of the job offer. Then they also lose valuable opportunities to stay up to date, and as a result, they may fall even further away from society, because much of the empowerment takes place in the workplace. Six out of ten companies lack the right skills according to the NHO competence survey. Then we have to be better at connecting people and employers and giving them the opportunity to fill in with more skills. It will require increased cooperation between the education sector and working life in the future, and the mobilisation of the unemployed will require wide-ranging efforts. The Government has increased the appropriations for labour market measures and extended the possibility of combining daily allowances with education. Substantial funding has also been provided for study places and training courses aimed at the out-of-work and unemployed, as well as wage support in order to obtain leave to work. In order to increase the number of people working, governments need to make greater use of the involvement, competence and innovation capacity of private actors. Today, there are a number of actors who are building teams around the individual and investing in their success. They look past the diagnosis and look for what the youth can and wants. On the way, they provide support for mastering life. However, social entrepreneurs who achieve good results will not be able to move forward. They must be given the opportunity to qualify and be approved as action suppliers at Nav. The bidding rounds must then avoid favouring the large and professional. Innovation and innovation must be the foundation of a sector that needs to see individuals to succeed in their work. Getting more people to work will be crucial for the sustainability of our welfare society. Together, we must create a society with opportunities for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1841	It's a little special to listen to representatives from the opposition almost describe the perspective message as a conspiracy from the Right. The left-hand side also has to assume that we are getting older, the oldest are living longer, and that fewer are at work, and that this could mean that the action space in the Norwegian economy is getting smaller. Then we have to be dry to discuss how we can solve our welfare problems in new ways, because tax is not an exhaustive source. Tax revenue assumes that there is innovation and creativity in business, that businesses are able to change, and, most importantly, that they are able to hire more. What surprises me most in this debate is not that the opposition is talking about taxes, but that there are very few who have gone up on this pulpit and talked about the importance of a good school to just ensure sustainability. There is rarely talk about how good teachers can work in a professional professional community. There's a little talk about basic skills. There is no mention of the importance of following up schools and municipalities with poor school outcomes. This is quite surprising, because we know that the schools that work systematically with good reading and computational education also ensure that more students complete high school. They're able to balance social differences, and they're getting more into the world of work. Because we now monitor and have transparency about results in Norwegian school, we also have the opportunity to learn from the schools that manage to balance social differences. It could be anything from Stovner primary school in Oslo, which is one of the best in the country reading in the fifth grade, to Sandnes and Bjørnevatn school in South Varanger, which in recent years has managed to lift their students from a much, much harder starting point. The left-hand side may well increase taxes, but at the same time, it is contrary to teachers’ skills and spending the large school money on very many measures other than what is really important for students’ learning, whether it be school food or physical activity. You agree to prioritize reading, writing and billing in the early school years, and you want to weaken a limit of absence that just tells young people that it's important that they meet: we see you, we'll follow you. If you vote against it, you help not only to increase inequalities in Norway but also to weaken the sustainability we are discussing here. Right-hand know that a sustainable welfare society requires that we have a school policy that prioritises first. This presupposes that we have a big teacher's vow in school, that we work early on reading and writing, and that we have a course of education that ensures that more people, even though they may have one foot in the workplace and have not received their letter, have the opportunity to complete. Is there one thing this perspective message should show us, is that we need politicians who in the future see the value of what a good school can do, and who never stop talking about the importance of school for sustainability.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1858	First briefly about the property tax, as Eigil Knutsen was so lovable to talk about again. The Labour Party and the parties on the left cannot respond, and refuses to respond, is why Norwegian owners have to pay a tax that no other owner that Norwegian owners compete with pays. It's impossible to get an answer. Instead, you only get this common rhetoric that colleagues in other parties in the Stortinget don't care about solving important societal challenges. I wonder what it's like to argue at such a low level in the fiscal debate year after year. But I'll talk about climate. I think everyone who has been part of the climate debate agrees that there can be a bit of a frustrating debate at times – a very claim debate, with claims like to be totally disconnected from what is actually happening in climate policy. Today, for example, we have. heard a lot about the decision of the Progress Party at the national meeting. I agree that it was a strange decision they had on climate policy there, but the fact is that cooperation with the Progress Party has given greater emission savings than the Workers' Party and SV managed together when they were in government. Or, as representatives of the Workers' Party have previously said today, they want a commitment to carbon capture and storage. To that it's just to say welcome to the club. We spend billions on the Langskip project launched by this government, where we don't do what the red-greens did, which just gave a blank mandate from Norwegian taxpayers to business. No, you share the risk, so that business has real incentives to succeed. But there's such statements that are just thrown out: we want a bet on this, and we want a bet on this. It sounds as if nothing is happening in the policy on climate in Norway. It's unfair, of course, but that's the way it is. That's what you make friends for when you're a climate politician for the Right. What else is going on? Well, it is that the government has put forward a climate plan to achieve the reinforced climate target for Norway by 2030, based on a major investigation work, the 2030 Climate Action Plan, which shows that climate targets can be met. It shows us how to reach them, and that's what this government's policy is. So we know that if we continue in government, when we reach the 2030 climate change targets. If we get a red-green option, we actually don't know what kind of climate policy we get.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1869	This government has led a policy that has speeded up centralization, and it has turned out hard for those who live extremely. Geographical and social differences are increasing. Now Norway needs a power cap to reverse centralisation. NOU 2020:12 ‘The importance of industry for living and sustainable communities’ and NOU 2020:15 ‘It’s about Norway’ make clear recommendations that more of the value creation in the districts must remain where it is created, in order to obtain a desired demographic development with living communities. The Youth District Panel has also made its recommendations for sustainable social development through recommendations in 10 points. It appears that the government has ordered a new package before the elections to hide the policy of centralisation. I would like to contribute to pointing out a solution for better development in the districts too: more relocation. Nature is important to people, and that our national parks represent something of the most beautiful of Norwegian nature, we know. 17 pst. of the mainland of Norway is protected and some municipalities have up to 70 pst. protection. Nevertheless, national parks are only mentioned once in this perspective message. The Protected Site Management, Visitor Centres, National Park Municipalities and other actors have different roles related to the protection values, with opportunities to cooperate in order to achieve a reasonable use. Local management of the protection areas and a new visual identity based in Norway’s national parks open the door to new experiences. National parks offer opportunities for both economic, cultural, social and environmental value creation, but it is important that local management leads to a greater degree of work being done in the areas where national parks and protected areas exist. It is therefore necessary to stimulate local value creation, business development, viable enterprises and full-time jobs based on the National Parks Administration and the Norway National Parks Brand. On 6 May, Innovation Norway adopted a new national travel strategy for the Minister of Economic Affairs. It points to broad value creation. The UN's sustainability targets and the ten sustainability principles do the same. It is in line with a strong commitment to local nutrient development in relation to the protection areas. It is also important to shift more State jobs and functions to new or established environment and institutions, for example to the nodes of the protection area management. It will strengthen the professional environment and community where the protection values are.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1882	In the decades to come, there will be fewer working behind each pensioner. That's a fact we can't choose to ignore. It's not an attempt to characterize the elderly as a problem, as someone's accusing us of. The government's expenditure will rise without any increase in revenue. At the same time, we have to implement the green shift. Despite this somewhat challenging picture of the future, Norway has the best starting point for dealing with this. What creates the greatest inequality and exclusion in Norway is the distinction between those who are at work and those who are out of work. The government has concrete measures to reduce the effects of short-term inequalities. At the same time, we have started a comprehensive inclusion process in working life and an early school effort. The reality is that Norway is one of the least unequal countries in Europe. Nevertheless, we see that the differences are increasing, and that is mainly due to increased immigration, especially after the refugee crisis in 2015. Then the answer is better inclusion and more jobs, not higher taxes that limit economic growth to be distributed later. Norway has a large public sector that provides good services to the population. If we had taken this into account, the income inequality would be greatly reduced, and we would have come out with the lowest inequality among the countries of Europe for which there are figures. The government’s policy is to address the causes of exclusion. Our main action to prevent inequality in society is to ensure more knowledge in school, better integration, to help those who end up outside the labour market, to reenter and give business framework conditions that make them dare to bet. At the same time, we shall have targeted actions and mechanisms for those who need the welfare society most. In kindergartens, we have lowered the cost of low-income families. A total of 45,000 children today have a free core time. It means a lot to those who have little. In the budget for this year, we again increased the amount of child benefit by NOK 3 600 for all children up to the age of 6 years – a total increase for the smallest children of DKK 8 200 since 2019. It means a lot to those who have the least. Small differences and equal opportunities build communities and contribute to high trust in Norwegian society. That is why we must ensure this in the years to come. The right-hand goal is just to give people equal opportunities to succeed. We're going to create a safety net that doesn't catch you, but that gives you a jumpboard to get back to work if you fall outside. This is why the Right in School and Knowledge spend their entire lives — just to meet the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1893	The message of perspective and this debate is a fine opportunity to free us from the short-term political debates, to pull up the long lines and perhaps to see both one and two generations ahead. We have been building a good welfare society in Norway for decades. Compared to the vast majority of other countries in the world, we have developed a society that enables most of us to live a good life. At the same time, no system is perfect. We always have to be careful to put the individual ahead of the system and constantly want to improve that system for the benefit of the inhabitants. An important foundation in our welfare society is the values created around the communities and businesses. It's a value creation we never have to take for granted. We need to create more jobs in the private sector to finance the welfare society of which we are so proud, in the years to come. In my meeting with the business community, many of the same arguments go back, and I think it's important to listen to those who have the shoes on. Firstly, there is a clear desire for us to ensure that our young people acquire the skills that society and businesses need. The most important value we have is the competence of each one. Therefore, the knowledge school is important to the Right. We need a diversity of skills. In More and Romesdal, we see, for example, an increased need to train more skilled workers in the industry. Secondly, it is important to build an infrastructure that allows value creation throughout Norway. Investments in roads, railways, airports and the sea are necessary for the safe entry of people and the entry of goods into markets. Doubling the transport budget and implementing the necessary reforms is an investment in future value creation. Thirdly, there is more than ever a focus on industrial research and innovation. It's a long-term investment in conversion. The development of new technologies is necessary both to improve productivity, to maintain competitiveness and to convert to a zero-emission society. We have to cut emissions, but not progress. Fourthly, we must also have a tax system that is growth-promoting. A company tax that is proportionate to our competitors is an important foundation for value creation in Norway. The reduction in the taxation of working capital is primarily to eliminate a cost-free Norwegian enterprise compared to its competitors. It is difficult to understand that the red-green parties are gathering to increase the taxation of Norwegian-owned jobs at a time when there is a need to create more jobs. Finally, I receive increasing concerns from our export-oriented business community about the EEA Agreement and that it is now being challenged. It is incomprehensible that both the Center Party and the SV will play this game.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1914	It is true that when, for my part, a long life in active service in politics goes to the end, one sits down and does his reflections. When I hear this debate, I want to say from the Parliamentary Chair that I am a little proud that I have managed to oppose the Progress Party and up against the Progress Party since the early 1980s. There have been many people who have thought that I have been exaggerating and should not use so much force on the Progress Party, but I believe that it has been right, and that it is right. It is true that once the Norwegian society has become so innovative and forward-looking, it is because we have collectively respected technological development in politics, and we have respected science. There are many ways to discuss the political effects of respecting science and technology – that's clear, and that's quite legitimate – but you have to accept some facts. When I say this when I comment once again on the Progress Party, it is because if we are to cope with the prospects for the future, the Stortinget will do so, with the transition from industrialisation to the green economy, we must reject the attempts of the Progress Party to say that this is hysteria. It's very dangerous for the political culture if it's allowed to sit down. Here we should take collective responsibility, all of us others, to deal with this very thing, because it is easy for the people to create the impression that there are light solutions to such heavy transitions as we are facing here, and as the government, in the communication to Sanner, correctly points to as the greatest challenge. But notice that we have a party in this room that thinks it's a gross exaggeration. It merges into the sequence of this. It almost doesn't belong to me to say it, but I say it anyway: the gross, incalculable abuse that the new party leader, Sylvi Listhaug, made of the Prime Minister's statements about the elderly in society, is an example of what I'm talking about. It almost doesn't matter. That's something that shouldn't happen. It poisons political culture, and it ignores political conversation. One of my last posts in one of the big debates here in this room is to warn the Storting against biting at that bait. It must be rejected collectively. We're not going to have that kind of populism in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1925	When the representative Kolberg himself says that this was one of his last posts in one of the major debates, I have to try not to sum up in a way that makes him have to break that promise right away. I didn't mean to take the floor either. It's always the way to be a little careful in summing up such a long debate. I have sometimes experienced that more people have drawn themselves while trying to sum up. I'll try anyway. First of all, I would like to thank the members of the Committee and all the representatives who have taken part in today's debate. I think it's a health sign, a good sign, in Norwegian democracy that we have exchanges, look forward – not just now to the election struggle, but until 2060 – and spend time discussing solutions, policies, for the generations that come after us. These are not solutions that are just about us. I think it looks like Stortinget to have such a debate in such a case. It's going to be hard to answer all the individual posts that have come through the day, but if I'm going to get it together a little bit, I'm going to say that sometimes it seems as if individual representatives mix up pointing to a challenge and that it's going to be a failure statement. So pointing out that you have challenges doesn't mean you've given them up. On the contrary, we point to these challenges because we want to solve them, and because Norway, compared to many other countries, is very well placed to do something about these challenges. I am among those politicians who honestly believe that the best stories are always ahead of us. That's why I think we should continue to bet on the work on integration, so that my generation or someone else's generation was not the last generation with a minority background that made a class trip in Norway. I believe that we should continue to bet on education, early efforts, help people to complete high school, so that we make sure that no more falls out of work. The biggest difference between people in Norway, what really contributes to inequality between adults and their children, is that people are out of work. That is what today's debate has been about – from the Right. There will always be many different opinions about the way to the goal. But I hope, and that's not an accusation, that we can have these debates without importing an American inequality debate, because we don't have that in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1942	The centre party, believe in tradition, has been accused in this debate of seeing gloomy prospects in Norway. But Norway is a country with great opportunities. We have huge resources, we have skilled workers in incredibly many businesses all around Norway, and we have a long tradition of building on. But precisely based on the great potential that we as a nation have, it is necessary to measure the results achieved by Norway as a nation in some important areas and in what direction it is going. With today's government, by today's majority with the Support Party, the Progress Party, we are going in the wrong direction in important areas. Before the pandemic started, economic growth was low. The employment rate in Norway was low — yes, it was also lower than in Sweden. Too many people were out of work, too many were out of work, too many were out of work, too many were out of work, bureaucracy had grown year by year, and productivity growth was low. When we point out such factors as this, for example, that the real disposable income for residents in Norway has fallen below today’s government – from 2013, when it was NOK 599 000, to NOK 570 000 in 2017 and NOK 522 000 in 2020 – there should be concern. When the trade deficit is record high, i.e. the trade deficit from mainland Norway, where we are really going to build values for the future, use the rich resources that we have, it is an alarming signal that the trade deficit under today's government has increased by approx. 150 B.C.E. kr. There is a need for a different policy, which helps to reduce differences in Norway, both between those with little and those with a lot, and also to reduce geographical differences. The centre party has repeatedly in this debate challenged today's majority of massive centralisation, the state-driven centralisation of Norway, which we must turn around. We need to facilitate the use of Norway as a whole, to ensure growth and development throughout Norway, to ensure good services and preparedness wherever one is, in the countryside or in the city, and to facilitate new growth, new industrialisation and positive developments for Norway. For that, a new majority is needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1953	The representative, Eigil Knutsen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1958	Thank you for a good debate. First to those who say that it is either immigration or whether one is inside or outside the labour market, which increases the differences in Norway: it is about – and this has been written by the government itself – that it is the richest that withdraw from it, which largely increases differences in Norway. Then the representative Heggelund came up with a challenge and was indignant because the Right's policy on both tax and climate was met with arguments in this debate. However, it is a reality that Norwegian owners are subject to lower capital taxes than the average in the OECD. Then you have to answer if you want the tax system to be redistributive or less redistributive, which has been evolving in recent years. It's about building further on the values in Norway that make me optimistic about solving the challenges of the Prospective Communication, that we have confidence in each other, relationships across population groups, cooperation in the labour market and small differences between people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1969	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1987	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, no lines will be given, and those who have to sign up on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e1994	Today's joy for large parts of Coast Norway is that the Stortinget will treat the construction of the City Tunnel. There are probably some of the biggest enthusiasts who think that the modest proposition on barely two sides is not in line with the innovation and profiling potential of the construction works, far beyond the Western borders. Where the proposition is a relative word button, it delivers what it needs. The proposal proposes a cost framework for the City Tunnel of 4090 million. kr and a steering frame of 3450 million. kr. The town tunnel requirement is primarily anchored in maritime safety. It states that the State Sea is a ‘barrier for maritime traffic’ between West and More and Romesdal. It is a bureaucratic description of a location with real storms that can cause delays and land for different fleet types. For me, who was born and raised in a fishing force in Finnmark, the Stadhavet was one of the first geographical areas I became aware of, except our local geography. The reason was simple: the city was notorious because it was difficult to provide in bad weather. The coastal people knew that. It is one of the most severe seas in Norway, with severe wave conditions for 90–110 days a year. In addition, it's a piece of sea that has taken many lives over the years. This is not just a matter for the West. It's a national case. Now seafarers are going to have their tunnel in several smelting waters. It is 1 700 meters long and has a sailing width of 21.5 meters, depth of 8 meters and a sailing height of 33 meters. The Kystruta may use the tunnel. The same may be true of the ring-note boats to pass through the State, but also of the smaller boats, the City Tunnel will provide a guarantee of safe and safe passage of the State Sea. Project responsibility lies with the Swedish Coastal Agency. Such expansion will have ring-effects for the surrounding world. It'll take out 3 million m 3 solid mountains, which equals 8 million tons of blasted mountains. Masses are important resources that any municipality would like to be able to use for its own projects. I allow myself to say as case rapporteur that it is a historic day today when the Stortinge will deal with and probably unanimously adopt the development of the first ship tunnel in the world. Sometimes it is possible to realize even the greatest dreams.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2016	City ship tunnel is probably a unique project in many ways. It's, like, the ship tunnel, the first of its kind in the world. The project is also a little unique because of all the investigations that have been made to get to where we are today. I have not tried to list the number of investigations, but at least one thing is certain: it was time for a decision. I would also like to thank the Progress Party for the budgetary agreement, which has ensured that we are now getting funding for this initiative, this project, and that we can deal with the proposition in Stortinget and get the final start of the City Ship Tunnel. There are many good arguments for building this ship's tunnel. The rapporteur pointed out maritime safety as being quite obvious. It's an exposed sea area. There is a need to ensure safe travel past the City, which is, to say the least, a very weather-hard area along our coast. In addition, it can be said that it allows for a number of other possibilities — the possibility of establishing increased local and regional traffic using the sea route. Building up the region in this area using the seaway and this tunnel will provide a very nice and beautiful opportunity, because it simply becomes possible to sail past it in more or less all sorts of weather. So it's pointed out that this is the first of its kind. Already now we see that there is considerable attention to this project. I think it's a significant travel potential in the City Ship Tunnel. Had I been a tourist who came along the coast and there lay a ship's tunnel there, which is the only one of its kind, I had paid some money to get allowed to run through. Here there must be a potential to exploit the fact that this is the only one of its kind — an attraction in itself. So this opens up some possibilities. There's a lot of rock that's going to blow out of this -- I almost said -- hole. This way, it's a valuable resource at all. I think it is incredibly important now that the Coastal Works and the actors involved in the implementation of this project have good dialogue with local and regional authorities and ensure that the surplus mass that may be there can be exploited and used in the best possible way, also in order to create new business opportunities in the neighbourhood. This is a day of joy, as the rapporteur said. I am very pleased that this marks the start of the City Ship Tunnel. I look forward to the opening date and getting the opportunity to sail through.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2029	Since the civil side won the elections in 2013, one of the most important tasks for the Progress Party and for the four non-socialist parties has been to start the construction of the country. There has been solid growth in the transport budget, it has provided better maintenance of the infrastructure we have, and it has given massive construction of new infrastructure that binds the country together. According to a number of national transport plans where the City of Ship Tunnel has been mentioned, but were forgotten every time the priorities were to be set in the annual budgets, it is therefore when the four parties that won the 2013 and later 2017 elections actually implement their own NTP, that the project is realised. It's not random. It comes from the fact that one actually has the ability to make the tough priorities that have made us have room for action to invest in infrastructure, because we know that when people in central Austland, well assisted by the press in Akersgata, often enjoy projects like City Ship Tunnel because it is wasted with public money, we have seen that it is precisely this type of infrastructure project that builds the country stronger together, as the developer of new construction and labour market regions, which open up new opportunities for business to create money, create new businesses and start new activity. Seventh and last, that's what we all live on. Civil and labour market regions mean something that district policy should not only be important in some speeches on the pulpit in this room, but actually mean real opportunities for people to develop activity in the region where they live and will continue to live in generations. The town of the ship tunnel gives people along the coast new opportunities — to travel safely, to get the fish ahead, to make larger commuter regions in what is seen in some of these areas as nutrient-poor areas, to increase the growth power of the sea in areas characterized by extremely strong maritime clusters. This is simply a happy day. I would like to thank the Government Party for its cooperation as a direct consequence of the budget agreement. I would like to thank the Swedish Coast Guard Agency, which, after the last installment, re-applied the cost of the project to what NTP proposed, which makes it possible to realise. I would like to thank all those who have been at home for years on Sunnmøre and in parts of Nordfjord to realize this project.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2040	It means "stop" and it's probably what's happened once. Some people say there's been a stop in the project, but what's the origin is maybe that there was a physical stop for those who travel on the ocean. The aim of the project is to improve the accessibility and safety of maritime transport services to pass through the City State. In this proposition, it is proposed to initiate the construction of the City Tunnel, and that is incredibly good. It is such that the project has been identified as socially unprofitable. And then you could probably have framed all of the parameters that someone has figured out to get to that answer, but this project is about something completely different. It's a unique project that matters to the safety of people, and it means something to the regularity of those who are at sea. The township is very busy. There are ocean currents, winds, challenging wave conditions and seagoing conditions for shipping. There has been a large and long-lasting pressure from different teams to realize the City Tunnel, and the aim of the tunnel is to improve the accessibility and not least increase safety and safety. Furthermore, it is intended that ship traffic should be able to pass City according to scheduled times and without unnecessary delays. The risk of injury and loss of life may be the main cause of the decision now being made to implement the town tunnel project. The centre party is very pleased that the development of the tunnel is finally under way. The ship's tunnel will make traffic safer, and, as has been said here before, this will not least develop into an exciting travel life project. In our proposals for a government budget, we have for several years proposed the launch of the project. The City Ship Tunnel is a project that has been planned and explored for decades. It is therefore high time that it was realized. It is important to clarify that although the project is considered not to be socio-economically profitable, the situation suggests that the benefits are high. I have mentioned safety at sea, but at the same time there is an opportunity to get more goods on the keel because of regularity, predictability. It is important for local and regional shipping, especially in farming facilities, transport from mercenaries to slaughterhouses. Tourists I have mentioned before, unique experiences, and it is not least a prevention of natural disasters with oil spills, which will have major consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2059	It could be SV was the party that needed some postponements, because it wasn't a hundred percent sure that we were going to land there. We are now in the unanimous position of the Committee. Township tunnel is not an unconditional environmental project. I'm sure the President knows that the undersigned has some contacts in the environmental movement. They are also somewhat frustrated with this project. But now we're not in any doubt that we've done the right thing. The reason for this is primarily what is now referred to by arguments, in particular maritime safety. It's so obvious. It is not a coincidence that meteorologists at all times have talked about being north and south of City. It's not just because it's kind of broken in Norway right there, but it's also because it's pretty hard to pass there. So it might have been natural to have two geographic areas: north and south of City. It is also quite obvious that this can be a proper boost for maritime transport, especially smaller vessels, and transport of goods. Now the assembly here, especially the Transport Committee, has long dressed in its head to get more goods off the road on the sea and on the track. This is one of the measures that can help. I also believe, as has been said from the Chair, that this can be exciting for the tourist industry. Of course it is. See, if it's a man-made cut, it's exciting enough. It's going to be a deep intersection of parts of it, and it's exciting to go through there. And you can only imagine what creative souls can create from tourist products and additional products around this – it can definitely happen. As I said, it can be exciting to see. It will be very fun to follow the development of the project and not least see how this can help to create new transport lines for goods by sea. It's going to be very exciting to see.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2074	Yes, City Ship Tunnel I think actually has the future ahead of me. Several speakers have mentioned safety, and we must also look at efficiency. When it's bad weather, you have to get out of the sea to avoid these difficult waves and get around. Now you can take the shortcut up all the time, all the year. It is clear that we have received some feedback from Hurtigruten and other of these larger ships that have been a bit like this: Yes, we will be fine without it. But I think it'll be an attraction. This is going to be a tourist attraction, it's going to be exciting for tourism. And my hope is that we get a zero-emission speedboat between Bergen and Ålesund. This was absolutely necessary in order for a proper collective year to be achieved at all on that stretch. Then it'll be exciting. When I'm in the West and I'm a little enthusiastic about the railway, they say, "But we don't have any railways here!" But now maybe they get their 'railway' with a speedboat along the coast that can carry them. In the left, City is like the great municipality for us. There we have Alfred Bjørlo as rapporteur, and that is where we have the leadership. They are very pleased today that they are now getting the City Tunnel. So in the left, it's a big day.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2085	This is a great day, and I congratulate you on the City Tunnel! It's been working on the tunnel for a very long time. At first one did not believe it was possible when Sogn and Fjordane made the proposal in the Western Council. One didn't quite see how this was supposed to be. But they were the same arguments then as now, with weather, with death, with great sorrow over all they lost at sea. The Western Council was a cooperation body between Møre and Romsdal, Sogn and Fjordane, Hordaland and Rogaland, and we had City Ship Tunnel as priority in the NTP at the beginning of the 2000s. So it's been working on this tunnel for a very long time. That's why it's a great pleasure today. Thanks to the government and thanks to the Minister for Transport for making the tunnel a reality. It's very fun for an old county spokesperson in Hordaland to be present when you've been working for this tunnel in another forum. That's what I thought. So congratulations to the mariners and to the shoreline along the whole coast!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2096	The Government is adding Prop. 97 S for 2020-2021, Construction of City Ship Tunnel, proposal to build City Ship Tunnel, setting out the cost and management framework of the project. Only the title - Building the City Ship Tunnel - is historical, for the issue of City Ship Tunnel has a long history. There are many plans and arrangements. With the government's proposal, City Ship Tunnel moves into a new phase, which means that this important transport project can finally be realized. This proposal also follows the National Transport Plan 2022–2033, where the City of Ship Tunnel is in the process of completion for the first six-year period. The project background is the special sailing conditions around Stadhalv Island. This project establishes a new inner sailing path from Moldefjorden to Vanylvsfjorden. This will establish a coherent inland waterway along the Norwegian coast, which will protect about 80 pst. of the coastal fleet with regard to storms and waves from the Great Sea. The aim of the project is to increase the emergence and safety of ships passing through town, and to reduce waiting time, improve regularity and reduce the risk of accidents. These objectives will help to strengthen short sea shipping and facilitate better coastal business transport services. The ship's tunnel will also open for the creation of new speedboat routes, which may have a significant impact on an enlarged bus and labour market region. In 2019 and 2020, the City Ship Tunnel project has been through an optimisation round. The objective has been to reduce costs as much as possible within the framework of realistic budgeting. Both the original project and the optimised project have been through external quality assurance. I therefore feel confident that we now have a good basis for decision. On this basis, the government is asking for the Storting's consent to the construction of the City Ship Tunnel through a comprehensive cost framework of 4090 million. kr including VAT. Construction time is expected to be five years apart. With the construction start in 2022, this means that the project can probably be completed in 2026 if the Stortingen joins the government's proposal. And I am pleased to note that a joint committee is in favour of this. Finally, I would like to extend a special thanks to the Progress Party, who got this in place through the budget agreement we had in the fall.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2114	The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2119	The history of the tunnel through the city goes back a long way in time. In the Viking Age, the sailors traveled their boats across the Dragseide in the city instead of sailing around when there was bad weather, and in 1874 the idea of a boat tunnel through the city was launched in an article in the Northern Bergenhus County Magazine, so this is the historical sus over. But the tunnel was first investigated in the 1990s. In 2010, the concept selection inquiry from the Coastal Works went against the construction of a ship’s tunnel by the City, but fires – seafarers, boatmen and politicians locally – never got involved. So in 2013, Jens Stoltenberg took this project into NTP and launched it in Ålesund on March 23, the same year. The working party then entered for start-up in 2018, which the right-hand government has not been able to follow up. There have been many delays, but now we are finally there. Then I would like to remind the Right Party and the Advance Party that the Workers' Party has put in the start-up appropriations on this for several years, so I might have to say welcome after. Together, we're going to get it. For February 2021, the Coastal Agency received the letter of assignment from the Ministry of Transport, which in effect provides a green light for the start-up of the pre-processing and construction of the ship’s tunnel and is to be completed, as the Council of State said, in 2025/2026. I have been following this case since 2005, when I was a district secretary in LO More and Romesdal. Together with the NHO, we were on the move to realize this project. I feel that this is a great day also personal, but not least for those who travel along the State Sea, and for those who have fought for this in many years of the Lord. Finally, we can get built and put in a safe fairway past a demanding sea area. In particular, I would like to thank Svein Gülseth, who started working on this matter as rapporteur in the neighbouring municipality in 1989 and who worked hard to get this project into the NTP during his period at Stortinget in 2009–2013. I would also like to thank the Council of State from the Christian People's Party, but not least Jan Heligøy from the Christian People's Party, who was the rapporteur in Vanylven – and which to me only appears as the City Tunnel. He has been a supporting player and an energy machine to actually get to this. Per Sævik, Randi Humberset, Jon Aasen and many, many more have been involved in the struggle for this. But everyone has done so that the wellboats will have no time to wait, to avoid the marine salmon becoming small, so that the Hurtigruten will not wait for better weather, for smaller fishing boats to be delivered their catch, and for travel life to have new opportunities. So today it's just to drink coffee and sprinkle big cakes. I know they do it in Vanylven and in Sale, and we should do it on Stortinget as well. We should have liked to welcome them here, but that's not the situation. I just want to say good luck and congratulations to everyone!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2134	Congratulations to the seafarer, the business community, and not least to all the inhabitants of that place in the west! Yeah, that's right – it's a party day. Now we ensure that the construction of the City Ship Tunnel gets a start-up. The Progress Party has been in the front line to ensure the realisation of this project, and I know that there are many in the West who have been with us in this fight, and who are also going to celebrate this important and historic decision today. It is, as many people have been in, a very dense area of ocean currents, wind, challenging wave conditions, etc. The aim of the City Tunnel is to improve the accessibility of seafarers and to increase the safety of maritime transport that has to pass through the City. With the tunnel we want to facilitate safer travel along the coast, and that's a reason to celebrate in itself. Not least, it also shortens the distances. This is a strengthening of the already strong maritime region, but it is not just an important national transport project. This will also provide good synergies for both business and tourism in the region. However, the way up to this start-up shot has not been easy, but the greater the reason to feel the joy when the fight is now crowned with victory. We in the Progress Party have long believed that the City Ship Tunnel is an important project for the West and industry along the Norwegian coast. This is why it is very important that the Progress Party has given priority to the project into its national transport plan. However, I must be allowed to say from this pulpit today that it was a great disappointment when the government decided in the autumn of 2020 not to add money to the project in its proposal for a 2021 government budget. Last October, Vestland had an annual FrP meeting. Both I, Britt, Frank Willy, Hogne, Arnfinn and many other good forces went together and adopted a resolution to the Progress Party where we demanded that this be prioritised. It took the Progress Party with us in the negotiations with the government, and we got the pressure in place 75 million. kr just to start this year. And let there be no doubt: without pressure from the Progress Party, the City Tunnel would still have an unsolved future. That's why we are extra happy today on behalf of citizens, businesses, seafarers and the whole of Westland so that we finally get a start.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2155	Imagine that we finally came to this day when City Ship Tunnel will not be completed once but will be put to work. It's a big day for us, for the inhabitants and for the industry along the coast, who have been waiting for decades for a final decision on the construction of the world's first ship tunnel. The project, which many have been involved in here, has been through countless distributions, and the coastal people have repeatedly been disappointed that one did not see and understood the importance of City Ship Tunnel for safety, the environment, value creation and coastal workplaces. All parties have trusted and stood up for the project. So the disappointment was very great when the government of Solberg last year jumped off. Fortunately, the bulk of the population disagreed with them. I would like to send a special thank you to LO in this context. LO has been with us all along the way to ensure that the weather around the State Sea and give the seafarers a safer everyday life. The city sea is a barrier to coastal traffic, as has been said by many. The shipping tunnel will be involved in linking the West and allowing the establishment of a quick-boat link between Bergen and Ålesund. This will link the West and create a larger and more attractive urban and labour market region from Ålesund via the maritime cluster on the South Sunnmare and the strong industrial towns of Målø and Florø. Seaborne freight and passenger transport is becoming safer, more efficient and more environmentally friendly. Yes, it's also an environmental project. Sailing through the tunnel provides shorter travel time, less fuel consumption and less CO 2 emissions from ships. The value creation of the farming industry in the West is very high. The shipping of salmon to the continent depends on the efficient and efficient sailing glass, so that the salmon reaches the final user in time. And we all want more goods from the way to the sea. The shipbuilding tunnel will create major ring-fences for tourism industries in the West. In the travel life hang, the City Ship Tunnel can become a traction patch that we still don't see all the contours of. It is exciting to follow developments in the future, and I am happy to be able to participate in such an important historical decision as it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2173	I'm not a Westerner or anything else, but I think it's incredibly cool that we finally get this project in place. I want to brag by a former colleague of mine, Åge Starheim, who has fought and stood on. At times I felt that he said City Ship Tunnel almost every week while we were working on the National Transport Plan the years I last sat on the Transport Committee. So it's an incredibly important and incredibly delicious decision we're making today. After 16 years in the house you can finally see that we are now in the process, now it has to be built. There hasn't been any easy fight, to say it like that. I remember there's been a lot of resistance. There has been resistance to costs. There's been opposition because no one would use it. There has been resistance in view of the boats that were going through there, that they were going to be able to hit the tunnel at all. So I think most of the parties that have had government councils have seen that it's been hard to get to this. That's why it was incredibly delicious when we managed to get the government in place and say that this project is to be built. Then I hear someone say that this is not cost-calculated – and everything possible. But it's okay, it gets someone sitting here in Oslo, gentlemen, and then we get who's in the districts, it seems nice to see the infrastructure being built so it laughs after. It's about the fact that it's very good for safety at sea, and it's about opportunities for a business life along the coast that's going along and past the City Land on the sea. It is about maritime transport and the opportunities for maritime transport, and not least about the fantastic opportunities it has for tourism. I think we need a boost on the tourism side, and there I think this has a huge potential that I think we might not know the contours of what possibilities this project offers. That's why this is really just a crazy day of joy, and it comes after May 8th, which was the day of release, and just before May 17th, so it's just to figure out the flag and lift it as high as we can. This is a day of joy for all those who have fought for this project to be carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2182	I can only join all those who have expressed great joy that the City Tunnel will finally be realized. I am unlikely to be happy to make that decision before I leave the Storting, for this is a project that I have been following for 25 years. This year it is 25 years since I was with the former state spokesmen in Sogn and Fjordane at a meeting, in Vågsøy, about the City Ship Tunnel. There was the first of an infinite series of meetings and decisions in the county of Sogn and Fjordane, and then in both government and big business. I was unlikely to be happy when, in 2005, in the National Transport Plan, we got the startway to City Ship Tunnel, because of course it wasn't. It is right, as the previous representative said, that there has been a great deal of opposition to this project and many arguments. When we got into a billion in 2013, we were reasonably sure that something was on our offensive, that things would be speeding up now, not least because the Right and Advance Party criticised us north and down, both in Sogn and Fjordane and in More and Romesdal – because it was too late and too far ahead – and if they got power after 2013, it would be very fast. Well, it was a joyous day when they presented the National Transport Plan in 2017 and the City Ship Tunnel was fully funded. But then it was silent, there was absolutely nothing happening, and it was a terrible downfall last year when the project was not part of the state budget. It is also strange that after many years in government, the Progress Party had to leave the government before they got a start-up run, but today we see a lot of it. It's amazing that we've now got a start-up run, and that there's going to be a national bet on City Ship Tunnel – because it's a national project. There is not a project for Sogn and Fjordane and More and Romsdal, which we could often get the impression of when we drift and fight for it. It is a national project. It is about our coast and about safe transport of both man and goods along the coast. It's about value creation. It's all about everything from speedboats to large fast-riding ships and cargo ships – everything that's going to go along the coast – and we hope that we'll then skip events like this. The fast route had been outside City a few years ago. Today is the time for joy. I understand that a splinter of champagne and wet cake and more in the vicinity, but I also thought that we, who are here, should be glad that there is a mass collapse going on for this amazing project today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2195	This is the day of thank you, thank you to the Committee for a unanimous vote and positive cooperation, and not least thank you to all those who have spoken here. It's incredibly polite – and I think it's for all of us – to sit in the hall and just hear positive posts. I think that's what every politician's heart is doing well. I know that many people are following the case outside the hall as well, on transfer, and I know that they are incredibly satisfied. That's what I think can make us all proud: that we make decisions that really matter to people, and that get people satisfied with what we do. This is a cross-political project, and it's a project that we're all behind, and that we're all going to be satisfied with. It's a project for Coast Norway, it's a project for security, and it's a possible project for ring-effects in the future. I thank everyone for the cooperation and look forward to voting for it tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2206	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox I think it must also be allowed for the President to say congratulations on the day of the Committee and on those who have spoken on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2225	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2232	There is a great deal of pressure to realize urban packages and urban growth agreements among cities in Norway that do not. This is due to traffic challenges, road safety and urban planning in line with overall developments. Today we are going to deal with the proposition that deals with the urban package in Tromsø, which is called Tenk Tromsø. Tromsø has had a long history from 1990 with its own collection of funds related to increased petrol prices to raise funds to improve urban traffic challenges. Tromsøpack 3, which is now valid, has generated about 30 million in normal years. kr, which shall be used for upgrading the Stakkevollvegen. The collection of petrol has taken place since 1990 and through three packages, the Tromsøysund tunnel, the Breivika tunnel, the Centre bar, the pedestrian and cycle routes, the Sandnessundbrua, the upgrade of the Langnestunnel and subsequently the Stakkevollvegen, as mentioned. Tromsø is the largest city in North Norway and is a city that has grown rapidly, and needs measures to improve traffic performance for road users, both drivers, cyclists and pedestrians. Tromsø wants to speak in an urban language, but the matter today concerns an urban package, which is less extensive than what an urban index will be. The frame is $6.5 billion. Toll collection is required for 15 years at 15 toll points and triple tolls in daily waste time. The package also requires municipal and municipal loan guarantees of 850 million. kr, which both the municipality of Tromsø and the municipality of Troms and Finnmark have adopted. I am pleased that Tromsø City gets its city package and can realize several of its plans for the benefit of Tromsø's inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2245	The Ministry of Transport proposes, in its proposal, partial toll financing for an urban package for Tromsø. It shall replace the current scheme for the collection of local funding grants for the conversion of fuels. This was a scheme authorised by the Stortinget in 1990 to co-finance the main road development in Tromsø, Tromsøpakket 1 and 2 and Tromsøpakket 3 part 1. In examining the proposal on additional appropriations and re-priorities in the 2019 State Budget, the scheme was extended until 31 July 2022 or until the toll collection begins. There was a great deal of interest when Tromsø decided to introduce a local funding grant by adding the fuel charge. This was therefore also considered to be an alternative to tolls elsewhere in the country. It was also seriously assessed by the Austrian cooperation. However, it fell away due to the risk of sales leakage to Sweden and to other areas outside the eight Eastern countries. However, it is worth pointing out that this was actually some sort of road pricing. The trend towards an increasing number of zero-emission vehicles has made fossil fuel revenues less attractive here than elsewhere in the country. But it is nevertheless natural to think that, with its special geography, Tromsø could be a suitable place to try out a new kind of road pricing if this were to be the case. We have noticed that Tromsø wants to make an urban capital speech. The measure underpinning the Tenk Tromsø Urban Package is based on the framework and leadership of any urban change speech and will be a good step towards achieving the objective of taking the growth of passenger transport by public transport, bicycles or corridors. The urban package is a major urban development project with a number of measures that facilitate the achievement of the zero growth target. The proposals for the financing of toll schemes by the City Pack Tenk Tromsø have been adopted by the municipality of Tromsø and the municipality of Troms and Finnmark County. The clarification of guarantee decisions and portfolios was adopted in October 2020. The recovery period is set at 15 years, with a planned start in the second half of 2022. In line with the local decisions, 15 tolling stations with two-way collection have been established in the various districts of Tromsø, divided into seven zones. In addition, the Toll Scheme in Tromsø requires differentiated toll tariffs at a triple rate in the rush time of everyday life. The urban package is based on the guidelines of the 2019 toll agreement. The ability to achieve the objectives of zero growth in car passenger transport can be achieved by increasing the availability of public transport and by increasing the attractiveness of bicycles and bicycles. This is also in line with the national objectives of the transport sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2262	The advance party is against the city package Tenk Tromsø. Once again, the political majority shall use the driving lists as dairy cows to finance various measures which they themselves can use in the shine of. So now the government parties, along with the red-green ones, want to impose a further charge on the use of a car in Troms. The progress party believes the drivers pay too much already as it is today. It is not the responsibility of the drivers to finance bicycle paths and bus sheds. It's time you realized that people in the districts depend on a car to get their everyday lives around. It's a bad idea to impose additional costs on people in Troms that make the wallet thinner and more difficult every day. There is no T-track in Troms, and the few have a collective node outside the doorstep, as one has in Oslo. The government treats people in the districts as if they live in Oslo. I want to invite the Minister of Transport to Troms to see how we really feel. Then he will see that the situation is very different than it is in Oslo, than it is in the Central East. In North Norway and in Troms we are dependent on a car. Then it's very special that this project is able to give priority to the projects that actually matter to the drivers, all of them, at the bottom of the priority list. At the same time, I note that more than half a billion kroner will be used in practice to finance toll collection. It only shows how hopeless these projects are, when such a large proportion of the projects agree to finance, borrow and put in place the infrastructure to collect tolls. The progress party is very clear on this matter. This is a typical example of a case where the difference goes between the Progress Party and the other parties – between the Progress Party and the Labour Party, between the Progress Party and the Centre Party and between the Progress Party and the SV, but also between the Progress Party and the Government Parties of today. It is only the Progress Party that has been against this case in Tromsø. It's only the Progress Party that's going to fight this case further. Tolls do not have to be introduced in Tromsø, and it would be much better to give priority – without tolls – to the main road projects needed by the city of Tromsø. We'll get back to that in connection with the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2273	I'm a little surprised by the previous speeches, which made such a contribution when we know that the two Ministers for Transport who have both Norway's record and world record in toll collection come from the Progress Party. Think Tromsø is the title of this case, and I have actually thought a little about Tromsø after Glimt won the Battle of North Norway on Saturday. It became 3-4 to Bodø/Glimt after the scorings of Botheim and Saltnes and a self-measurement of Tromsø. Today it's not football, but City Package Tenk Tromsø we're going to debate. The goal of the urban package Tenk Tromsø is zero growth in passenger transport by car and good accessibility for all road users, with emphasis on public transport, cycling, walking and business transport. In that perspective, it is good to put this urban package in place. It is also worth noting that Tromsø wants to make an urban change speech, and that the urban package is built on frames and leads for any urban change speech. An important element of this urban package is that the Tromsø region will finally have more road construction and better infrastructure. It's going to be an infrastructure lift in a city that's grown a lot. The planned new Quale connection is very positive and makes a larger area enjoy this urban package. But of course it's negative for people that tolls are part of the funding. The toll load is equal to whether the drivers are poor or rich, and it does not help to balance social differences. So any savings in the project should be made to reduce the toll burden.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2284	This is a good day for Tromsø, for those who walk in the streets of Tromsø, for those who ride bicycles in Tromsø, for those who are in line in Tromsø. It's a good day for those who love a more pleasant and prosperous city and a more open urban environment in Tromsø. As mentioned above, Tromsø has waited a long time and the need for an urban package has increased year by year. In 20 years, the population has increased by about 20,000 inhabitants, but nothing has happened to the infrastructure. Obviously, the problems have kind of turned up. The city package is coming in the count's time. They have had their special arrangement with the collection of extra fuel tax for many years. This has been said here, but with this, Tromsø comes more according to the rest of the country. It is important to say that this is just the first step on the way to an urban capital speech for Tromsø, and the negotiations on an urban capital speech must start immediately. I guess it's already halfway going on. We'll hear what the Council of State has to say about that matter. At least Tromsø has been ready to negotiate urban growth agreements for a long time, and it will open up the possibility of even greater measures for the environment and well-being in this ice-sea town. SV wants the two State projects, the E8 Aerodrome Tunnel and the E8 new main route to the aerodrome to be prioritised as one project with a significantly higher State funding share. It writes SV together with the Working Party in the notes. We have also seen that the local government in Tromsø has several times adopted a wish for road pricing as an alternative to tolls. It's great that Tromsø wants to be a pilot for new technologies as an alternative to tolls. Of course, it will support the whole heart around it, and I think maybe Tromsø can be very good at it, with that size, and it's a mix of city and country, so you get to try out more parameters in a road pricing system. So to this strange, undisguised, irresponsible right-wing liberal Progress Party: do the Progress Party, the representatives of this party really believe that no to zero growth targets for car traffic in cities sell to voters? They think that the streets are full of cars, poor performance on foot and on bicycles, a city of peppers with parked cars, etc. really is something to win the election on? Because that's what's meant by that position, right? Or that no toll should go to other than car-passenger projects? I would now say that the upsurge in Oslo for the environmental parties does not indicate exactly that. Does the Progress Party only want to recruit young people, the next generation of members, who are not socially aware, are not climate conscious or are not environmentally conscious at all? Then the party has certainly had a very poor recruitment basis. In this way I should perhaps have timed quietly, sitting quietly in the boat and letting them sink a little gently into the highway's deep middle discount.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2299	I would like to congratulate Mr Tromsø on this local initiative in order to get these urban agreements and urban environment agreements and, furthermore, a city capital speech. It must be based on local involvement. That's it in the four cities that have urban growth rates. It was Oslo that began, and Trondheim, Bergen, and Stavanger came. It is the development that has taken place in the four cities that really stimulates the desire and negotiation of five new cities. This is the lead for Tromsø. They've had reward money for a while, but now there's also going to be something more of it, and the commitment is going back to zero growth targets. How does having such great ambitions to bring down private cars in a city that is growing? 57 pst. of all the transport carried out in Trondheim in 2007 was by car, passenger car. Today it's 50 pst. So we've got more people using public transport, there's more like bicycles, and there's more going on. There's become a completely different environment in the city of this. At the same time, some traffic problems have also been solved with the road system, especially out of Trondheim, southwards. This has been a spice layer, which has worked very well, and that's exactly what Tromsø wants, a spice layer between the state, the motorists and the municipality/communities. This is the way to address the local environmental challenges, the promotion challenges that are there, and also to be involved in the great effort in terms of greenhouse gas emissions. So this is going to be very good, I think. I also think it is very good that Tromsø takes an initiative to try out road pricing in Tromsø. They have had almost the optimal pricing through this increased petrol charge. Trondheim also tried it 15 years ago, applied for it, but the neighbouring municipalities would not be involved. Then it did not work, then there was a leak – there was no leakage to Sweden, but to neighbouring municipalities. Today, the neighbouring municipalities of Trondheim are part of the urban growth agreement. They see it to be beneficial.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2310	I am very pleased that the plurality of the committee joins in the proposal for the development and financing of the City Package Tenk Tromsø. This is an important issue that will contribute to better and more modern solutions for public transport, bicycles and bicycles and car drivers in the city. As can be seen from the National Transport Plan, which is currently under treatment in the Grand Duchy, the government will improve and further develop today’s toll collection system. We want a forward-looking and modern system, and I'm concerned with flexible solutions. I am therefore pleased that the majority in the Committee are concerned with this issue. For Tromsø's part, I would like to stress for the sake of order that we add up to the start of toll collection in 2022, as stated in the proposition. The proposal in the proposal is based on local decisions. Local initiative and support is an important principle in toll cases. It should also be noted that local and regional authorities have shown flexibility and a positive approach to getting a urban package in place, inter alia. to adapt the arrangements for the tolling agreement from 2019. That's what I thought they should be commended for. The city package Tenk Tromsø is a major development project, and I believe this package will strengthen Tromsø, both regional and national. The city will be more attractive both for business and for those who live there. The goal of the city package Tenk Tromsø is zero growth in passenger transport by car, as we know it from the zero growth target. Local and regional authorities are committed to this. In addition, attention has been paid to good behaviour for all groups of road users, with the main emphasis on public transport, cycling, walking and business transport. Let me also say that the toll package is fully financed. The projects and actions are included in a priority list and will be added up to 20 pst. the specificity of local and regional actions. Furthermore, there is agreement on portfolio management and good cost control. The package is therefore in line with the 2019 toll agreement. It is also important to stress that the toll collection in the Bypakket Tenk Tromsø will replace the current local fuel charging system. The two major projects in the package are the E8 Aerodrome Tunnel in Tromsø, formerly the Cross-Connection Tunnel. The resources for this project are also inside the NTP. And then it's Bru to Kvlöya, which is a county road project and will lie a few years in advance. Additional measures, in addition to what is proposed, will be the subject of any negotiations on an urban capital figure for Tromsø. In the national transport plan, which is currently under treatment in Stortinget, the government has indicated that they will facilitate the conclusion of several urban growth agreements, under this in Tromsø.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2333	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2339	Tromsø city has been operating with petrol tax collection for more than 20 years. It has hardly always been as popular among the city’s inhabitants, but there have been several major traffic projects that have improved the situation in Tromsø. Does the Minister for Transport agree that it was high time we got a city package and that the urban growth agreement should be realized for Tromsø city soon? And can he say anything about the time perspective?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2344	I agree that a significant and good work has been done in Tromsø. I myself met with the politicians in Tromsø, who were enthusiastic about landing city packages, as it appears that the Storting will now do. As I think everything is right for us to get an urban growth rate, in line with what is in the national transport plan. If the Stortinget now makes a wise decision in this matter, and everything points out, I think that then it is our job to design a mandate for the city capital talks in Tromsø and get it started. That's Tromsø mature for. It looks like there's a positive enthusiasm to get it done, and there's a need for it. I also believe that Tromsø's policy will improve. A good foundation has been laid through this city package, to which the Size is now connecting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2349	I think Tromsø is happy today for the consideration of this matter. When Tromsø dealt with this local policy, they asked to be considered as a pilot project for alternative recovery. The discussion in other cities is about the fact that the collection costs feel high. Tromsø is geographically okay. There is availability and a rush time charge and everything you can see in a road pricing solution. How realistic and how close can such a pilot project be? It might be useful for us with the knowledge we get.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2356	I think it's a good question that the representative Leirtrø raises, because I think we want to get even better collection system than we have. Tromsø has thought innovatively and well about this. When I met them, I was concerned that these are possibilities we should look at. But I didn't think we should stop until that kind of solution is fully in place. We should get started with the city package and do it. I think that we need to work on looking at this continuously, and as soon as we see possibilities for a better system, I am willing to assess it at any time. But so far is despite all that we can call the old toll scheme, the best model we have. I am concerned that we should now have progress in line with what the Tromsø politicians also want. But as soon as I see the possibilities for this, we're going to work on this and just look at the pilot solution, because I think it's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2361	I am recording that the Workers' Party believes that everyone in Tromsø is happy to get someone to go into their wallet. I'm not sure that ordinary people in Tromsø are. It could be that some politicians are. But my question to the Council of State is this: I believe that he was a little positive about new collection methods, i.e. road pricing. There are several countries that have assessed it, but as far as I know, no one has introduced it for a car. Then it could be interesting if the government could mention which countries are the good example that this is a good way, and that it gives better recovery. The best thing would have been to drop the toll, so there would have been no problem at all. It would have been the easiest thing to do, but I guess I didn't realize that the Council of State is right there. But at least there is the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2368	No, I'm not there, because if we drop tolls, there'll be less infrastructure construction, it'll be less roads, it'll be less for good measures for collectives, for bicycles, for times. I have to be honest with you and answer that I do not have the good copies of the collection that are alternatives to tolls. Tolls have proved to be uniquely good, even in an international context. There is not so much better system than the current one, but I believe that we will see a change, that we will also see systems that are getting better, and that also makes road pricing a better and more suitable tool. The day when road pricing is better and can work, I am willing to use it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2375	It is almost a small talk to the Progress Party, this question to the Council of State: Does the Council of State know any city in Norway, or for that matter outside the country, that has managed to slow down or get urban traffic down to the centre without the use of tolls?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2380	I don't. I'm not in the full list either. I think that when we, for example, look at urban growth agreements, we see that where it has been realistic to achieve the zero growth target, tolls have been part of the solution to achieve it. But I would like to stress that even for the motorists, it becomes a better totality. Yeah, it costs something, but it gets less queue, it becomes a better chance to maybe run a few days and take collective transport other days. So it's a totality that gets better for everyone, and I think it's important to point out. I noticed how the representative Nävra started his introduction. He said this is good for public transport, it's good for bicycles and times, but it's also good for motorists in Tromsø.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2385	I thank the Council of State for that answer, I guess that's a confirmation of what was, of course, a leading question, that's the purpose of it. Of course, SV also sees that tolls do not differentiate between poor and rich. There is a problem at all charges, and it affects not least batches on the left hand side, which are concerned with equality and distribution. So we're aware of this. But over to the other possibility that lies in the technology, this with road pricing, which also others have been involved here. We are not quite sure that it is necessary to wait for the technology to allow everyone to change. It may be a pilot project, which may allow some voluntary users to test it as an alternative to tolls. There maybe Tromsø could be good. Seeing how it works technically doesn't have to have an enormous number of users. So I ask the Council of State to actually carefully consider whether it is not possible for a partial test to be carried out on some users who volunteer to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2394	What I mean by Tromsø is that they are owned as a pilot project, with the geographical approach that Tromsø has, where there are very limited and very clear differences in the area, between where there are very many people, and where there are very few. In other cities, for example in South Norway, there is more cross-border cross-border traffic on this very point. I believe, however, that today's technology is attached to road pricing is not good enough. We do not have international leadership to suggest that we can use this in 2021 or 2022. I'm concerned that when we're going to do this, we should know that it will work and will be good, precisely because I want to use it in the future, and I think it's dangerous if we go on without knowing the full consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2399	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2407	It is a strange experience to listen to a debate in which the members of the Committee on Transport and Communications of the United Kingdom compete with each other in boasting of being positive to road pricing. I'm recording that we even have a government council that does the same thing. It only shows the need for the Progress Party in policy, to ensure that toll prices are reduced, to remove the tolls. Then it's not the way the Center Party tries to give the impression of when Mossleth has the word, because it's a slap. The progress party reduced the amount of toll in the projects when we really built the road when we were in government. There's something that's started to change now after we left the government. We had to be involved in toll financing on some projects, unfortunately, but that was because we were bound by a government agreement. The centre party is in favour of tolls knowingly and willfully, even when they are an opposition party. It shows how much you can trust the Center Party in this matter. The centre part of Tromsø is also a hot trailer of tolls. I want to challenge the representative Nävra from SV. He can take a trip to Tromsø, for example. in January, and went out on a bicycle ride. It could be a pretty funny and maybe quite heartbreaking experience. But if you really believe that in Troms, that you're in Tromsø, and that all those who go into Tromsø should be able to rely on something other than the private car, then you live in an alternative reality. Because the fact that when you live in the Arctic, you actually have to relate to a different climate and to completely different distances and assumptions in order to promote people. I am not among those who believe that it should at all be a goal to reduce car traffic. I want the city of Tromsø to continue growing, that also means growth in car traffic, and then we get to provide the infrastructure that is necessary for Tromsø to continue to grow. But then it's not like you're trying to give the impression that you're discussing the qualoi compound. Yeah, great and fine, that, but it's at the bottom of the priority list of the projects included in this urban package. And we know what happens to the projects that are at the bottom of the priority list; they are removed when things become priority. It's just looking at the city package in another town in Troms, Harstad, and what happened there. There you had to remove the project after project because of poor financial management, which meant that you did not get everything you promised.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2418	It has been said from this pulpit that this is a spice layer Tromsø wants, and it should not be about making it more difficult. But that's exactly what it does. It is those poor people who have poor finances and who depend on a car, who get this bill and have to pay it. Gunnes wanted to congratulate Tromsø. I would like to condone to the poor people who are going to pay this bill every day because they depend on the car and are being imposed a lot of toll on projects, while the most important projects for them – for those who are going to use it – are the projects that are at the bottom and that you risk are the projects that are breaking out of the package. That's what I think I'm good at. And now I'm getting a little tired of this debate when it comes to the Center Party and tolls. I thought that the representative from the Central Party knew that it is we in this Chamber who decide on the projects to be adopted or not adopted in relation to tolls. So it's not the government. The government presents it, but it's the Stortinge that takes final decisions. The centre party has voted in favour of approx. 80 projects in this room since 2010. They have voted in favour of every one. The Progress Party has voted against approx. 40 of them, because we're against tolls. In addition to that, when we were in government, in 2019 we had a positive impact on cutting the toll by 1.4 billion. kr. We're going to cut for 2 billion. kr in year. We have been and removed toll stations like the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV set up just before we got into government. I myself was in Alta and tore the toll station that the red-green parties decided before the elections. I was in Seljord and said that here there will be no toll station, as the red-green had decided just before the election, and we have been and torn apart other toll stations set up by the red-green parties, and the Senter Party had the Minister of Transport for eight years. It's the Center Party bluffing people. When you say you're against tolls, yes, at least you have to see what you're doing in the Storting, and you actually have to do what you're doing in the Storing. So it doesn't matter to the Center Party. We in the Progress Party were unable to remove all the toll stations when we were in government because we had to make some compromises. But we have voted against it when we have been in opposition, and we are voting against it now because we believe that this is an unfine way of skinning Norwegian drivers. – I'm sorry, I'm not going to say "flee," but that's what I meant and thought, President! It's actually about willingness to carry out what you say. Then I think the centre party can stop being unfair – and be honest from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2433	For 12 years Trondheim has had the environmental package, i.e. urban environment agreement and urban capital speech. At each local elections, the Progress Party says that this is a referendum on whether we want a city package or not in Trondheim. Twelve years ago, the Progress Party was about 10 p.m. in Trondheim. Now they're under 5 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2438	The President reminds us that it is the City Package Tenk Tromsø in Troms and Finnmark we are debating.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2443	In this chair, from representatives of the Progress Party, we are talking about ‘stack drivers’. It is also said that the representative Nävra does not know what it is like to ride in Tromsø in the middle of winter. Well, I've been to Tromsø many times, half my heart is in the north. I must tell the representative Amundsen that I have been there in all kinds of weather, in all sorts of seasons. I know what it looks like and what it's like in Tromsø. Of course, there's no snow in Tromsø all year, just to have said it. So mentioning bicycles is probably going to work. I know, as I said, that taxes do not distinguish between rich and poor. That is the disadvantage of the charging system. That's the way it is. There I put my trust that we can actually add some parameters in terms of technology and road pricing. In fact, all kinds of parameters can be inserted if we have enough will. Then we have to remember – and this is especially true of the representative Hoksrud; you have to realize that collective is not free – that we also pay money to get into town. Just to get from Lier and get here, at the meetings here, I'll pay over $1,500 a month. We have to bring in these numbers, too, for whoever comes from outside Tromsø and is going in by car. One has to pay quite a lot of tolls to weigh up for $1,500, I think it's, just from Lier and get in here, with collective. What I had as a challenge to the Progress Party was really whether it was so tactically wise, the attitude that the Progress Party is putting forward. One thing is that they are not environmentally aware, I can live with it to the extent that they do. I think it's sad that they don't think about climate, don't think about nature, growing generations and future. I can live with it in a way, because then I have a good counter-debate, and we get a good divorce in the Storting and in the Committee. What I'm asking is whether the Progress Party has thought carefully whether this is tactically wise. 10 pst. digestion, it's 10 pst. Who hates tolls? Yeah, maybe it is. But is it so clever to recruit young people to the Advancement Party? I'm very much in doubt about that. In that case, as I said, it would be a strange recruitment. The way to recruit young people I think is regrettable.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2456	Yes, it costs to use public transport, but it costs me to use a car too. In addition to paying the car when you buy it, there is of course VAT on it, and of course there are road taxes, there are fuel taxes, there are insurances, and there are tolls, which Arne Nävra thinks are great, but as I think is a cruel bad thing. It's about with all the charges that the drivers actually pay, it's a big cut in the economy of people. It's about what you're left with in your wallet, and what you have at your disposal. Then I register that the difference between SV and the Progress Party is that he wants to put tax collectors in the car, he wants to use the possibilities to find out at any time where people are, so that you can charge, a little depending on where you are, at any time. I think that's a bad idea. It's also about privacy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2465	It's probably all at the end, maybe in overtime, but I'll just say two things very briefly. One thing is that I believe what's most important to people is that the system works, that the infrastructure works, that it's not queue, that one gets a supply that suits the health and is good. I thought that Gunnes' copy came from Trondheim, where one sees that one has just managed to invest at a level that means that the tolls have not been too high, shows that it has created legitimacy for it. My second point is that in the national transport plan we are now presenting, we have delayed the toll percentage. There is some factual information for the debate. It's not necessarily because it was the Progress Party that introduced the previous NTP, but it's because I'm not an opponent of tolls, I think it's the best system we have today if we're going to have external funding. But I'm concerned that we should have legitimacy for that. We saw some debates in 2019 where a team was about to lose that legitimacy. That's why I think it's right to include it. But so far it's the best system we have if we want alternative funding, and I notice that much of this room joins.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2472	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2477	Contrary to what the Council of State said in its statement, the whole point is that there is no need for this alternative funding. There is no need to spend tolls, the state can well finance the roads we need in this country. There are a lot of other nations that don't have thousands of billions of dollars on book, and that can do it in an excellent way. The whole premise that tolls are necessary is actually wrong. That's because you've chosen to do it, that it has the consequences. I actually drew myself to respond to the concern of the representative Nävra for the recruitment of the Progress Party. Then I can say that young people in the districts and in the north are also busy with the car and that the car will be able to use. You actually take certificates in North Norway, maybe unlike in some areas of the East where it's no longer cool. But the car is also a youth concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2484	I think that the representative of Hoksrud in his appeal for honesty should also have been a little honest, given the long-term consequences of the Progress Party's transport policy. It has been raised beyond any doubt that it would never be possible to build as many miles of road in this country without tolls, as one has done with tolls. The loss of income that demolition of tolls would have caused would have had serious problems in financing even the Progress Party on an over-optimistic day. It strikes me that earlier today we discussed the perspective message, the outlook for the Norwegian economy. They tell us that we have an oil fund that will receive less income gradually. The state's ability to pick up money from the fund to get the state budget to go to zero is decreasing, and the objectives are much more. I'm not going to go into the other main conclusions of that message, but if you read it, it's to reflect on what possibilities you have. The representative of Hoksrud should also bear in mind that every six crowns of the state budget today come from the oil fund, so if the oil fund is to finance the toll loss, the fund will run out of sight.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2491	The representative Arne Nävra has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2497	Yeah, I'll have to be short. First to the representative Amundsen: I drive a lot of cars, and in my previous life I drove Norway up and down many times. It was necessary for me to have a car. I still have a car, we actually have two cars, one of which is an electric car. I also live in the country. I am aware of that situation, and I should also say to the representative Hoksrud: SV does not love tolls, we never say that from the pulpit. We don't want to say it from the scene either; there are some other parties that have done it. I don't love tolls, I think of it as a necessary means in urban strips, that's the only reason. If we're going to count how many billions of people in this room have voted for in tolls, I think maybe SV is the best way out -- if you think about the huge motorway expansions that the hall here has helped to finance, to a large extent, with tolls.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2506	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2511	I can't humiliate myself after the representative Harek Riveres was in the pulpit here and talked. It's about political will to give priority to what you want to do. And then I could just mention one after another that the government parties and the representative of the Rivers would like to spend money on, and that the Progress Party does not want to spend money on. It's about assistance, it's about electrification of the socket, it's about other climate action that you think is so important and good. The oil fund has increased by 1 000 billion. kr in a year under a pandemic, so it's about political will for what you want. Infrastructure is about investing to reap in the future and have a good business life with great opportunities for infrastructure construction. And to Arne Nävra: much more is to be built the proper way of four-fields, which is to be liked to the party of progress. Then it smells like asphalt, and then we really get speed on the infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2518	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2535	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2542	Now I hope we have done away with the toll debate in the previous case, because now there is a new matter that concerns, among other things. tolls. There were some congratulations on the previous case. This may also be the case, because the project E10 Hålogaland Road is a very long-term measure. And for me, and many others, who have been working on this matter for over 20 years and perhaps longer than that, this is actually a joyous day. As rapporteur, I would like to thank the Committee for its very good cooperation in this matter. There is a joint committee that wants to build this road. I wrote yesterday that all parties are in favour of the project, but I see today that it is not right – MDG has announced that they will scrap the project. Nor are all equally excited because the project is so large that it is a OPS project and that it has to be co-financed with tolls. However, the project includes part of the transport link in an important region, a region comprising several small regions — Lofoten, Vesterålen and Ofoten. These regions need to be linked together, and in addition, two counties – Troms and Nordland. So E10 is an incredibly important business transport year, among other things. also for the transport of fish. Those who have driven that way know that the distance has poor geometry. It's steep increments and narrow road. The overall cost framework for the project is estimated at 9 250 million. kr. The development and financing arrangements have been addressed by local authorities, which have provided support and guarantees. The project will result in an E10 from Tjeldsund bridge to Gullesfjordbotn being mapped in about 30 km, and travel time will be reduced by 39 minutes. For the right, it is important that the project is started quickly, and we believe that OPS is a favourable form of development. The Swedish Road Authority has conducted a comprehensive market dialogue and believes that the Hålogalandswegen is an attractive project for several actors, including Norwegians. Finally, this long-term project, which is also very much in demand locally, is realized where local authorities have asked us not to postpone but to run the project as it exists. So now it's just running on.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2559	Implementation of E10/rv. 85 Tjeldsund-Gullesfjordbotn-Langvas Bay has been included in several NTPs. It was also part of the national transport plan 2014-2023, starting in 2018. The whole purpose of the project is to bind the Hålogaland region closer together, both for business and for the population. This shall be done by improving accessibility and providing a significantly reduced travel time. The route is mapped by about three miles, and the journey time on the route is reduced by about 39 minutes. There's a lot of time. This project is quite many years in overtime and the use of OPS as a method has been widely used by the government as an argument for faster progress and realization of the project. It can well be said that there is evidence that it has not been faster at all and that it would have been entirely possible to use time to break up this project, as the plant industry has requested, to give Norwegian industry a level playing field. There are not so many investigations into OPS, but those that exist show that it is costly and that it is best suited to countries that do not have a good economy but want to realise a project. Now we're using up the action space for the next government, and we're prolonging the pick-up time for the drivers. Nevertheless, the Workers' Party believes that the most important thing now is to realize this project. The population in the region has waited long enough. The new road system is estimated to have a cost of EUR 9.2 billion. kr and shall be partly financed by tolls. The construction time is expected to be six to seven years, and the OPS company winning the contract undertakes to operate and maintain the road system for 25 years. The other framework is set at a total of 18.3 billion. kr. In addition, the exciting thing is that the State Road Service will use the project for more stringent environmental and climate requirements. This is something that the Norwegian construction industry has asked for for a long time, and it is important that we keep up with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2574	I listened with wonder about the previous posts, because that's directly wrong, what's said. This is a project that has gone fast. This has been NM in Norwegian planning, because a state plan was implemented. I myself was State Secretary in the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, and the representative Hoksrud was State Secretary in the Ministry of Transport when we started planning the Hålogalandswegen. In fact, things have gone fast, at least when you compare with most of the other projects we have in Norway, so here the Workers' Party should deal with the facts. Yes, this is a very important project, a very good project, which binds cities in Hålogaland, which build infrastructure, as we want, and as we need, and as a resident in Harstad, I see this as a great joy. This is a very important project, and I am very happy that the government managed to get it to Stortinget. This is in many ways a day of joy. It's just a shame that you're in the middle of the big joy -- on a project that has an estimated size of 9.3 billion. kr – nevertheless chooses to use tolls on the project. I think you could have avoided that, because those tolls only contribute 1.2 billion. kr into the project, so there is a relatively small proportion. Here one could not spend money building up the infrastructure needed to collect these tolls – it alone costs 200 million. NOK – and then you could actually get this development without taxing the drivers more. So it's the only cut in joy, and it's going to be the Progress Party that's going to be clear on; we have our own proposal on this. So I want to show that there are also parts of the project that should have been expanded. This applies not least to the road section with the highest ÅDT, which is rv. 83. That's where you stop in Fauskevåg. You should have taken the road all the way into Harstad, at least all the way into Bergseng, and then got in place the last bit there. This is something that I want us to do in connection with the national transport plan. But the fraction of the funding that's going to happen through these tolls, which, in my opinion, are unnecessary, is going to happen among the drivers that are running on that very road, and so they don't get as good a payoff as others get. So this is a happy day, but we could have avoided tolls. Finally, I refer to the proposal of the Advance Party on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2589	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen then addressed the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2594	This is a good day at work. I am happy, and there are also many others who have worked hard for this way. The Hålogaland road is an important piece for getting important goods from coast to market. Hålogaland, which was the old term, has a prominent place in the old saga, much more than expected by a place so far north, can a read. North Norway was inhabited early. Some of the oldest traces of people in Norway have been found in Finnmark, and the oldest traces of household clothes have been found at Traina in Northern Ireland. Fish are important for Norway. Fish are important in the north. 10,000 to 11,000 years ago, people had boats in Northern Ireland. It is proven by the stints of a boat in the Efland, probably the oldest image of a boat in the world. Fish and the transport of fish are so important for Nordland, Troms and Finnmark that these states have an explicit strategy for the development of transport systems. This strategy is called «Coastal to Market». Now that we are ready to adopt the implementation of E10/rv. 85 Tjeldsund–Gullesfjordbotn–Langvas Bay in Nordland and Troms, this is the Hålogalandsweg we are talking about. It was Minister of Transport Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa who started this – the Hålogaland road between Sortland Bru and Snubba in Evenes. She was very clear that this was a project that was so economically sustainable that it had to be planned and implemented quickly. The regulatory planning work was carried out by the state, but the final decision – what we have today – was a somewhat shortened trajectory. About ten years after the KVU was presented, work has not yet started, but finally, today, we get the financing decision – or it will be presented tomorrow. And it's really time. People and businesses in the four regions of Ofoten, South Troms, Lofoten and the West are happy today. The tolls are the biscuit, but it's with the Progress Party in government that you have set the premise for the NTP that it is now governed by. The Minister of Transport was from the Progress Party. The Minister of Finance was from the Progress Party. I understand that the Advance Party must speak with a loud voice when they try to distance themselves from everything they have done in government. It must really hurt to meet itself at the door repeatedly after time in this way. The centre party indicates that the Norwegian construction industry has for a long time warned that public transport contracts are increasingly rigged so that Norwegian companies are losing against foreign companies in the bidding rounds. For us, it is important that large infrastructure projects contribute to increased Norwegian value creation and increased Norwegian competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2607	OPS is a strange arrangement. Once upon a time, a rich uncle was going to build a house. He had a lot of capital, but most of it was tied up in other projects, it was tied up in shares and property. He could easily get a loan, he was perfectly solid. Nevertheless, after asking more carpenters in the area and getting a price from a local carpenter as he knows, he chose whether he could build the house for him – after his own drawings, correctly. This carpenter was supposed to provide funding, build the house and maintain it for 25 years. He was supposed to paint and stuff. The rich uncle would rent the house and use it. A house is a house, he said, it's the same thing who finances, builds and paints this house. He signed a contract, was happy to let go of borrowing money sail or sell some of his shares to pay the joiner. He was happy until his sister, who was an accountant and very good at numbers, began to count on the agreement he had made with the carpenter. It turned out to be much more expensive than if he had borrowed money and owned the house sail. But a contract is a contract, and a road is a road. But everything has to be paid. And this is the point. It may be that construction is faster, because some shortcuts can be taken for the local authorities, perhaps, when the road is to be built with such an OPS arrangement, but is it cheaper? It's doubtful. That's the same thing that TØI found out a few years ago: it's rarely leasing is cheaper than buying. What is the interest rate level? Who pays for the profits that should be on top of this? The state is finally charged. Norway is such a rich uncle no matter how you turn it around. We have money to invest and competence for planning, construction and operation. Everything now we have entrepreneurs who are in full swing, and competition and fairer prices are created, which the right-hand side claims. We've got it. SV is a clear opponent of the OPS ideas, and we're a little scared that it can also fit into other areas of Norwegian transport. We've seen ideas closely related to this for railway projects, as known. SV's point is that if a project is interesting for private investors, it should also be for the public. I guess that's a natural question. So to the Greens' Greens' solution, instead of spending the money on the North-Norway and saying no to this project. It is also an intrusive idea for an environmental party such as SV, but we must also have access routes, and we must think about two things at the same time, so that we will vote against the Greens' proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2622	SV and the Workers' Party are in principle objectors of OPS. Then I don't think they know the story of why you build with OPS. My example is from 25 years ago and relates to the road between Klett and Hurricane in Trøndelag – the northernmost part of E39. It was not at national transport level or anything like that; there were no national politicians interested in financing that route. Then the rapporteur in Orkdal took an initiative. We must have a new way, he said. That was the rapporteur from the Left, and the Minister for Transport was from the Left. What happened? Well, you got an OPS project, and that way you've done exemplary for both construction and maintenance. Yes, it is so good that the same contractor got a new contract of 20 years. He also has it today, and is going to build under the tunnel directive, because there are many tunnels on this route. They've engaged him for 20 new years with a lease. That's the background for choosing OPS. There is also a local initiative that has led to wanting to build, but national responses have not been received, for example. many of the projects we're going to have in the NTP. Then you go for private solutions. I have to say it's strange that it's still not going to be a way to work for in Norway, because it's those who take the load. We also have to see that there may be savings in some areas. The contractor gets a complete expansion, something that New Weger has. They engage an early-stage entrepreneur. They also do so in an OPS. You get the price, you get the construction process much better, and in the local leadership you have a dialogue with both the landowners and the municipality that will adopt the different plans. Yeah, you go a little out of line, but I think that's just a little bit healthy that we're actually trying. There are not so many OPSs we have in Norway. It's probably done six to seven pieces now, I think, but I haven't heard of a single one where drivers who use the road are dissatisfied.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2629	Yes, the extension of E10/Rv. 85, also called the Hålogalandswegen, is – together with the Southfold tunnels – one of the largest investments in transport in the north in very many years. About 20 billion. Government plans to use the two road projects. The MDG is pleased that there is a lot of money to transport in the north. But it's disappointing to see that once again it's the roads, and not the railway, that run away with the money bag in the national transport plan. Overall, NTP’s entire north investment begins at a wrong end when it is chosen to prioritise Hålogalandsvejen and Sørfoldtunnelen instead of Nord-Norway. This is one of the country's main maritime food transport corridors, but unfortunately the government does not seem to understand that it is the railways and not major new roads that are the solution for future energy-efficient transport in the north. We are facing a formidable task of reducing both greenhouse gas emissions and microplastic emissions from car tyres while meeting the business needs for predictable, environmentally friendly and cost-effective shipping of seafood. The solution to this is not to pour billions over even more road projects, but to build a modern rail without greenhouse gas emissions and get efficient transport. A railway can carry fish faster and increase road safety by moving freight from trailer to train. The need for safe and good highways and highways in North Norway is also great, so let's start using the money where they are most needed, namely to build modern railways for Harstad and Tromsø and take better care of the roads we already have – before we strike billions of new giant road projects, which do not meet the needs of people, business or climate. With that I am therefore presenting the proposal from the Greens/Greens/EFA.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2640	The representative Per Espen Stoknes has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2646	It is not every day that the Ministry of Transport is presenting matters to Stortinget with the scope of the project. Only the development costs of the project are over 9 billion. kr, and this is probably one of the largest road projects that have been carried out in North Norway in modern times. The overall framework for the project, which also includes operations throughout the OPS period, is of 18.3 billion. kr. It also shows that not only is the cost of building a road project a cost. This is a lot of money, but I still think it's a necessary project that will bring significant benefits to road users and businesses in the region. At the same time, the government's proposal to implement this project shows that the government is following up the significant investment in transport in the northern regions that we have announced in the Northern Region Communication. The Silver project includes the development of a total of 82 km of two-field road on 35 km of new road in existing track, 27 km of tunnels and 20 km of road in a completely new trajectory. The project includes, inter alia: measures for public transport, rest areas, a daily rest area, exit parking, pedestrian and cycle roads, ways to relieve the road network, connections to existing roads, new cross-resolutions and renovation of private waste. E10/rv. 85 Tjeldsund–Gullesfjordbotn–Langvas Bay is part of an important transport link between the Lofoten, the Westål and the E6. In addition, the project includes a short distance of rv. 83 from E10 to Harstad. E10 is an important industrial transport year, including: for the transport of fish. Today's road has poor geometry, steep gradients and narrow roads. Some of the distance has also reduced the speed limit due to edge-bustness. The new road system will lead to significant positive effects on road users travelling on the route. E10 from Tjelsund bridge to Gullesfjordbotn will be shorted in about 30 km. This reduces the journey time by about 39 minutes. There has already been a debate on OPS. This project is the third and last of the three projects previously announced by the government that the Stortinget should be conducted as an OPS, public-private cooperation. It has been working for several years to prepare the project in question for market launch, including: through very good work on the part of the State Road Administration in good dialogue with the market.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2663	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2668	It's not so far away exactly one year since we were in this room last, it was 19 May last, and talked about the same way, because the Workers' Party proposed that the road should not be built like an OPS. We justified it with a social economy. There was a report that the government had ordered on 6 May of the year, which said something about if such large contracts were made out of the public, it had to be understood that there was little chance for Norwegian providers to get them. Then we met that if we got a majority for the proposal, we could be pushing the project so far out in time that it became part of the next NTP treatment. There we stand today – it became part of the next NTP-treatment despite the fact that we did not get a majority to split the bid. What is the reason why the recommendation of the State Road Administration, which came in December 2019, is now part of the NTP?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2675	I am at the answer I gave in May. I think that the project is part of the next NTP is very good. There are projects running. Take Rogfast, currently running: It's part of the next NTP. E10, this project, we're going to do it. My concern would probably be that if we had gone back and not implemented it as an OPS, we wouldn't be in the main hall today and debated this project. And then we would get a postponement. It applies both to the OPS project as a whole, for it was planned as well as to the size of the different projects. I have been busy – and I actually thought that the representative Amundsen said something about it in a very good way – the urgency of this project. Here it has been working fast and well. There's a project that means a lot to the region, and I'm happy for the broad connection it gets in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2682	Thanks for the answer. I very much agree with you on the importance of the road and have been part of the Narvik community and worked with it since the mid-2000s. Then I also agree that a great job was done with a government plan, because here there were two county municipalities and many municipalities inside the picture. Planning went fast. But those who remember the last time we dealt with NTP, in 2017, will remember that there were many from then government parties – I won't say that the government council has any responsibility for it – who were out there and said not only are we going to plan this road quickly, and we are going to have it into the national transport plan, but we are actually going to start building this road in 2018. It was at least representatives from the Party of Advancement and the Right who stood out in both the Official Journal of Harstad, the Forwards and the Vesteråls newspapers. What is the reason why one did not have the ambition to start construction in 2018?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2689	Even though Solberg's government has double rights on the road and soon has tripled them on the railways, we haven't done all the projects. It's because we've had a lot of extra charges, not least on the railway side. But I'm glad we're getting started with this project, which is so important. I've also noticed the representative Lyngedal's commitment to this very project. I think this is very important. It is not often there are projects in that magnitude in North Norway. That's why I choose to focus on it today. Compared to many other projects, this project has progressed quite well even when we have seen the last four or five years. I also notice that the excited project will be received in this important part of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2700	The Hålogaland Road is an important regional project, and although we have disagreed on how the project was to be implemented and organised, at least we agree that the project as such is good. The type of project shall contribute to building stronger housing and work regions. Here a bound South Troms, Ofoten, Lofoten and the Western Rope get together to a much greater extent. In the middle of the area we are now discussing, at Evenes, there are currently large expansions due to the fact that the Stortinget has decided to build a forward-looking base for our new fighter aircraft. The actual expansion of the air station and everything that it brings with it makes it very active in the area. The Hålogaland road should initially also have solved traffic challenges in Evenes, but the project was eventually downgraded. And now we're in the situation that the so-called E10 Aerodrome Crossroads into Evenes Airport and Air Station are not part of the plan. What are the plans of the State Council of the Airport Cross at Evenes?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2707	It is correct that this project has also been scaled down. Even with a It is this project that is being taken into account for this work. So it'll be like this that when we start negotiating a contract, it'll be possible to see if we can also get more things done. But now there's this proposition, with the instructions that form the basis for the Greatness treatment, which is based on the government's side. I can't promise today that we can expand, but it's clear that by entering into a contract now, it's possible to look at different assessments. I share the concern of the representative Sverre Myrli, among others. the cross link with Evens and the traffic challenges it could lead to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2716	Like most of the ways in propositions I read about roads in North Norway, this way isn't socio-economical either. It would probably not have been socio-economical to have roads in North Norway at all. But at least there is no doubt that in the region there is a need for this road, and for the cities and for the districts of the Hålogaland area this is very, very important. That's what brings me back to what I was in my post, that's the last bit in, rv. 83 to Harstad from Fauskevåg. It's not the big part, but it's important enough, and that's where the fraction of the traffic is going. Will the Council consider whether, even outside this project, it should not be delayed, it can also be brought in with that piece?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2723	I want to respond to the representative Amundsen in the same way that I replied to the representative Myrli: Now it is this project that is on the ground. But here we're going to conclude a contract, we've provided a cost framework. If we are inside it, we have the possibility to make exactly the kind of assessments that the representative Amundsen referred to here, both in the line now and in his article. I also believe that the cross that Myrli's representative points to is a challenge, so I think I can look into the important contract negotiations that the state road authority is now entering into. So to that with socio-economic benefits. When I entered the department, I received a report from the local roadside authorities – in March 2020. Then there was no project in North Norway. Then it was based only on socio-economic benefits. It shows that we can't just have it as a factor. It may be one factor, but it can't be the whole thing that politicians are looking at.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2731	I will refer you to the decision No. 463, from 31 March 2020: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that public tenders in road, rail and fairway are designed in such a way that Norwegian operators have a real opportunity to compete for the projects, provided that this does not entail an increase in the costs of the projects, including the size of the contracts, and that knowledge of Norwegian conditions, climate and topography is required where relevant for the mission, as well as requirements for Norwegian pay and working conditions and the use of apprentices and own employees at the construction site.’; My question is, how will the government take this decision into account in this project – the Halogalandsweg?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2741	In 2012, Minister of Transport Marit Arnstad took an initiative. She travelled to Germany, among others. to make foreign entrepreneurs look at the Norwegian market. At that time one thought that there were too many Norwegian entrepreneurs – only Norwegian ones, and I actually thought it was commendable the initiative that Marit Arnstad took. Of the projects we had in 2019, 19 out of 21 projects went to Norwegian entrepreneurs. I agree that this type of project, of this size, may be something big for many Norwegian actors, and we should look at what is the right size to have. I have noticed that Norwegian entrepreneurs have asked for a larger and larger project, but now it has come to a limit where they may give a signal that they want something smaller. That's what I thought we should listen to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2748	This is a very important matter. Norwegian enterprises and Norwegian jobs have come under a lot of pressure in the future, and although the Council refers to the number of projects, it turns out that the largest projects have gone — to a greater extent — to foreign actors. The minister made a story of history, but said nothing about how the government will take this big decision into account in this particular project. And this concerns more than the size of the contracts, it concerns knowledge about Norwegian conditions, climate, topography, Norwegian pay and working conditions and the use of apprentices. So a nomination right on that decision in this project would have been fine.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2755	We're open to follow up that big decision. I think everyone is aware that Norwegian entrepreneurs have the opportunity to find happiness in the Norwegian market, and they do so today. So we also have to look at the size. It's been one of the things that we're challenged on, and I've told you we're willing to look at. Then I agree with the representative Siv Mossleth that there is a wholeness in this, that is knowledge of the Norwegian market. There we see Norwegian entrepreneurs do it very well. They understand and know the Norwegian market. But my point was also to say that I think we should have a good combination of this, first of all it should be Norwegian entrepreneurs that win, and they do. But it would also be, I would say, a bit stupendous if there were no foreign entrepreneurs who saw on the Norwegian market. I think it would be good for both competence and good health. But we're naturally concerned that Norwegian entrepreneurs should do well. That's why we've followed up the decision, which is a cure, and we're also looking at the size of the projects, which is the right size.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2762	Then the cord shift is over. The following speakers shall also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2769	First of all, I would almost recommend the representative Stoknes from the Greens/Greens/Greens to take a trip northwards. He was thinking that a possible North Norway track from Harstad to Tromsø would be a substitute for this road, but they're going in two very different geographical areas, so there's a logical lack of reasoning, to put it this way. As a black landing, which has driven the route from Evenes to Blackland many, many times and sometimes with the heart of the throat, it is a great day when the Stortinge now decides that this road should be built. This is the most important development of transport in the Vesterålen area since the bridges disappeared in the 1970s. Then maybe it's okay to remind the Progress Party that these bridges in their time were financed with tolls, without the people thinking it was annoying. This road is to go into the densest populated area of North Norway. The regions of Ofoten and Süd-Troms, Lofoten and Vesterålen are closely linked. So these are regions with a living agriculture. Norway's largest fishing municipality lies here, small industry and a very high trade. Sortland is my hometown, so it's a little bit fun and I'm proud to say that this place, which is the region centre in the Westphalia, has the highest retail turnover per capita in North Norway, and is located in 14th place in the country. This path will mean a lot to the development of nutrition and the promotion of the people living in the area. So the representative said Amundsen that no roads in North Norway had been built if purely socio-economic considerations were to be taken into account. It's probably the representative of Amundsen right in, but at this point, the government of Solberg has made a change of course, because it's clear from the North Sea Communication that not only socio-economic considerations are to be taken into account when building roads in North Norway, and that's one of the reasons why this road is now being realized. To the fear of OPS: this is one of three new projects that the government is continuing as a OPS project. The OPS model has its advantages. To the representative Nävra, concerning this painful competition to which the State must deal through OPS: the same competition and the same contractors must also be the case in a traditional development where the State Road Service is the builder.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2782	There is no doubt that Route 10 is very important, and I am extremely pleased that tomorrow we will be able to participate in and adopt the funding of this important part of E10. We use to disagree about a lot in North Norway, but one thing we've actually wanted since the beginning of 2000, and it's a proper Europe road, because we don't have it yet. I can, like the previous speaker, join in believing that we are going to be all right without having proper European roads in North Norway, but just having trains, becomes an illusion. I drove this way last week. It is with the heart of the throat you encounter the fishing transports on this road, because it is so narrow, because it is so curved and not built for the transport we have today. No one borrows cheaper than the Norwegian state. Why should we ask a private company to borrow money to build a road, pay them for the loan for 25 years and pay for the operation? The incubator shall lift the plough when it reaches this distance, run over, do not drift, do not scatter exactly this distance, but put down the plough again when it reaches the finish line. The working party has always thought that OPS is a pointless way of trying to save money, and when they get as big as this, they get an additional problem. They are most likely to be economically very unprofitable because the main contract goes out of the country. And it's at the top of the food chain the best profit lies. It is not certain that there was so socio-economic unprofitable between Klett and Orkanger, which was a shorter distance and not such an expensive project. It wasn't necessarily on rv. 3 rather, which we have expanded as OPS. Here I'm afraid it won't be very profitable for Norway. But I hope there's likely to be providers for a very big project up north – in the Arctic, which we use to say. I hope it does not frighten providers from this project. With regard to road construction and what government it is that in 2013 an NTP was adopted in this room, and the government of Solberg that came after has had the joy of completing and finishing E6 on Helgeland, finished building Halogalandsbrua, which was otherwise socio-economically profitable. Socio-economical projects are also available in North Norway. I don't think this government has managed to launch a single road project in North Norway that was not in NTP in 2013. It had to be the Kvänang mountain, which has now been handed over to New Vejer, as the first one in North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2793	It solved the proposal by the Greens to redeploy the state funds from the Hålogaland Road to the North Norway Railway is a shock proposal. This proposal does not show any knowledge and understanding of the way in which maritime food transport is carried out. I cannot believe that the Green Party in Lofoten, in the West, in Ofoten, in the South-Troms can agree with the Green Party in the Great Britain today. And if they agree with the Greens' Greens' Party today, they are totally on a collision course with the people and businesses of the region. Rail in the north is important, but we still need good cross-border connections from the coast to the trains. The Greens must have lost their sense of urgency when they tabled this proposal. Or it may be that the challenge is that they do not understand the transport challenges in North Norway at all and do not understand the strategy ‘From coast to market’ that the Nordic states have.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2798	This is an amazingly important project for a region – to build the region, to build an important part of a valuable part of the country. I have to say that I am able to be provoked by the proposal put on the table by the Greens. To propose scrapping such a large and important transport project, road project, in this part of the country and re-prioritising the money to a railway that has not even been completed, I simply see as unprofessional. I had hoped that the representative Stoknes could be so careful that he put through the whole debate when he made such a proposal, so that we had the opportunity to debate this properly with the Green Party. I think this clearly shows that the Greens are not a party for District Norway. It's a city party, a party that's only concerned with urban issues, big-city issues, and doesn't care about building all of Norway. So to a little bit of the criticism that has come from several here in the case of OPS. Public-private cooperation has proved to be a good model, both to have projects implemented faster and to have a certainty that we can stay within costs and see investment, operation and maintenance in the context. This has meant that we have developed much more innovative, good solutions in the investment phase, because it is good through the life cycle of the entire project. The implementation model OPS contains a lot of good things. The main criticism is related to funding. It has to be taken into account that the government has put up a scheme here which means that a greater part of the investment cost is paid out much earlier in the course, so that any difference that may be at financial cost is significantly less significant now than it had in previous OPS models. I feel that the criticism related to OPS is given on a false basis and that a person has not really entered into the device that the OPS model we are currently running has received. So for tolls. This project is fully implemented in line with the National Transport Plan for 2018-2029, and is fully in line with what the government announced in 2017 and as the Stortinget adopted in 2017. Finally, a brief comment on the socio-economic profitability of the representative Amundsen. I think it's okay to take on board that we can't count on all the benefits of these important projects because the social benefits of very many of the transport projects and road projects in Norway are considerably greater than we can quantify.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2813	Per-Willy Amundsen [[FRP]] Originally, I did not say anything much about this famous proposal by the Greens' Greens' Greens' Party, but it shows how hostile this party is to districts. It clearly shows that the Green Party is a party for those who live within Ring 1 in Oslo – and virtually no other part of the country. I'm also a strong supporter of the North Norway Railway, but to use this project to finance the North Norway Railway, which is otherwise not completed, it goes without saying that you can't take it seriously. But it is hostile to districts, and it would not have served the same fishing interests that many people have had. Very familiar have so far been counted on a side arm for Harstad. It would have no further effect out in the West and Lofoten. I must also be allowed to allow myself to correct these claims that, in particular, the Workers' Party and the Center Party come along, when someone is trying to take credit for the project. It's wrong, with all due respect to report. There have been many great things in NTPs that have been adopted by the red-greens, but that doesn't mean it was realized for that reason. The national transport plan under the red-greens was probably the most I would call a party note without any commitments, because you never followed up in the budgets. After the change of government, the appropriations were doubled and, in fact, the things in the national transport plan were taken seriously. So that argument really doesn't hold. But I record that there are many who want to take credit for this important decision that we are going to take. Maybe it's just out of the good stuff, and then we get a broad majority of the Biggest -- minus the Greens, of course -- but this is a project that's being carried out because you had a very fast planning process. Seven municipalities are involved in this project. It is clear, if you were to run normal project management in all these local authorities, this would have taken much longer. State plan, this first transport project, used in recent times, it produced results, and it should give more taste. And then I'm not in this ideological debate on OPS. I thought we'd moved on.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2824	First of all, to the representative Amundsen: the Progress Party has doubled its proposal for a budget for transport from 2013 to 2021, in line with the Labour Party. There's no difference between that. It's an increase. The progress party was 21 billion. kr after their own NTP in the last year they went off, so to talk about delivering on NTP they will stay too good at. I want to say a little bit about OPS. I think all parties want to get the most out of the money, and I think it's important to have knowledge of the consequences of OPS. The representative Gunnes used E39 as an example. The investigation I've seen about it says it cost between 800 million. DKK and 1 billion. kr more with OPS on that project than it would have done if one had financed it from the State budget. Another issue one sees, especially in Trøndelag, is that the operating contracts increase somewhat violently. From Dovre to Majavatn, the state road system and the New Roads are going to run operating contracts. The cost of this year's government budget has increased by 72pst. So it's essential that we try to get more money back for the money we spend. It's not so strange that OPS is getting more expensive. One who is going to borrow money privately will have to deliver with greater risk, and on the project in Trøndelag the interest cost was between 3 and 5 pst. higher than the State would have had a toll guarantee. Just before that, a new road was built from Trondheim to Stjørdal. People are equally satisfied with what they are with the OPS project. That's $29 million. kr annually to operate that road of three miles, and it becomes quite expensive afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2836	It is an honor for me to be allowed to be the case rapporteur for this matter, I have to say that. If someone had told me 20 years ago, when I was in the first meeting on this matter, I think I'd told them they were silly – I'm sorry about the use of words, President! It's a little bit of a historic day for us coming from this region. It is an important issue for the inhabitants and businesses of the region, and I think there has been a good debate here today. I also think the debate has been a bit as expected. It's a different ideological approach, we have to accept that, but I didn't think any party would want to build this way. The Greens' representative Stoknes was up here on the platform and the reasons why the Greens' Greens' Party is proposing to transfer this money to the North-Norway. The main reason was that the North Norway Railway is going to be the main transport corridor for fish. I may not think the Greens have thought that the Hålogalandsweg and the Europaweg 10 are the east-west link in North Norway and perhaps the way that most fish are transported throughout Norway. SV’s representative Nävra said that it was an intrusive idea, but that they were not going to support the proposal. He had a good reason – that routes to the north-norway have to go. And that's exactly what's so important about the Hålogaland route and all the other routes of administration. Either it is a county road, a European road or a national road, it must be a good route of administration. What we're asking for is to get yellow midrange stripes. We don't want motorways. The Greens want to scrap the motorways, but we just want a good road. So to the Greens, I would like to repeat what more people have said up here on the platform: is this what we can expect from the Greens in the future? Does not the Green Party know that people in the north live mostly on the coast and deserve a route to a possible future North Norway Railway? I think it's a little stupid for the debate on the North Norway track that road and trains are set up against each other, because that's exactly what many fears in the north of Norway are about. I don't think it's that kind of tactical.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2847	The representative Mossleth of the Central Party said that the Greens had lost sight of the Greens. Yes, I agree with the representative, but in addition to losing their gait, they have lost the compass direction. There have been several speakers. The North-Norway and the way we are now discussing are going in very different directions. The Green Party has today, through this debate and through the launch in VG, shown a frightening lack of understanding and knowledge of what everyday life in District Norway requires. In fact, large parts of Norway’s population depend on the car as a means of emergence, either for personal transport or for business purposes. The fact is that in this way, the people of the Westphalia are cheering today. This is a people full of progress in a region that has a relatively small element of public employment, at least state jobs. It is private business – fisheries, the small industry and a viable trade – that is the basis for settlement in this region, and it is clear that this route will have a major impact on the continued creation of growth and settlement in this beautiful area. I don't think we should be so afraid of this OPS model. As regards the possibility for local contractors to be commissioned, it will be absolutely present. When the 27-kilometre tunnel is going to blow up, there's a lot of mass to move, and there's a lot of mass to move in the other side of the road. Entrepreneurs are then required, and if there is something that this area has enough of what is qualified, there are contractors who can enter as subcontractors, whether they are recruited from Ofoten, South Troms, the Vestreålen or the Lofoten. Finally, we must remember that the travel time from Evenes to Blackland is approx. 2 hours. With this route, travel time will be reduced by 40 minutes. It is a massive reduction in travel at such a short distance. If the flag does not go to the top of our area on this day, at least the flag will go to the top of the Western Sea. This is a very long-term project that the people are very grateful for.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2860	I want to join most of the previous representative said, except for that with OPS. The western needle is an absolutely amazing region, and on this road there will be going screaming from the Ant and salmon from the Hadsel. This is one of the most important regions, and it's a productive and beautiful region we're talking about. It was the representative Amundsen who made me speak again, and it's about the national transport plan. We have been operating with the National Transport Plan since 2000 in Norway, and what has been so fine with those plans has been that you could trust that what was there was fulfilled in the budgets, and it was built. By and large, it's been like this. I think Amundsen is going to have to realize that the plan he agreed to submit from the government in 2017 is not being fulfilled for the first time. It is a pity for trust in NTP and for trust in transport planning in Norway. I'm not afraid of OPS. I just think it's a little bit like taking on consumption loans. One thing is that you have to borrow expensively because you have to pay the private person who is going to have his or her mortgage. The second is the operating contracts with which the representative Leirtrø was involved – one has one to negotiate with. There will be a change in the operation of a road in 25 years. It would not be a businessman on the other side of the table if they did not use the opportunity to get well paid when there are changes in the operation of a road. Yes, there are a lot of good entrepreneurs in the West and in North Norway as a whole. But it's at the top of the contract chain's profit is greatest. There should have been a Norwegian company. In fact, it's also a little about democracy and binding up the room for action for the future. Now we know that we're going to pay for this for 25 years. I was critical in my previous post that the government has managed to start very few new road projects in North Norway, if any. I'm just coming to the Women's Hill. Otherwise, they received the important projects in the north as a gift package in NTP in 2013. That means that this is very, very long-awaited. And I want to boast that at least in the NTP that is now going to be treated, this spring, there are several very important projects for North Norway, especially on our European roads, which I think you just have to admit that you have to have a better standard.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2873	To the previous speaker: at least there was a gift package on real pay, because there were some others who had to fix the money, and it was the government that took over, where the Progress Party started several of the projects that the previous representative was up and talking about. What's strange about this debate is that you're so concerned about the type of model you're using. What you should be concerned about is how to make sure that we get the most money we're going to spend, not what the model is called, or what model you choose. If you're going to be a little honest here, I think you can see that OPS has worked well somewhere, and I think you should be honest and say that maybe it wasn't as smart anywhere else. I think that's much more real in such a kind of debate than trying to say that one is crap, or that the other is bad. Because it's not like that. There are examples that both parts work, and they don't. The party of progress is not concerned with ideologically choosing the model or model. We're actually concerned that we should build the road as quickly as possible and as cheap as possible and get the best possible way for the money, and then it really doesn't matter as much if it's one or the other. But there's a point, which we agreed we were concerned about, to make sure Norwegian entrepreneurs were allowed to participate and compete. It was a small challenge with this matter. But it had come too far, and it became as it turned out. Then I think we should all be happy that we are now making decisions in Stortinget. Now the road is being built. It's also a bit like this – without starting a new toll debate and using many, many posts on it – that it would be an even more socially profitable project if you had dropped the toll and fully funded it with state resources instead. That's what I wanted. So to the representative Lyngedal, when you say that this NTP doesn't follow up all the projects, I think you should be a little honest there, too. During the last red-green there were many projects that were not implemented, and there were very many projects that were transferred to the new government for delivery. It is also not so strange that I am a little gray in my mouth, because one of the first things I had to do was to take an extra calculation in Buskerud on the E134 Damåsen – Saggrenda, because there were large exceedances that the previous government had brought, which they had not financed. It's clear that when you're against tolls, it's a challenge to find more government money and shake them out of the other parties in government. But there was at least less toll, and it became a better project, and it was more like you wanted it. So I think you should be a little straightforward. For E134 Gvammen–Århus there was no money inside, but it was adopted. So it was the Minister of Transport from the Progress Party that had to find the money to implement the project, which was completed not long ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2888	I was really on my way home, but then I heard this from the TV transmission, and I thought that no, I can't say that my main post was just about OPS. I think it was a good post from Hoksrud this time. He called for some honesty in the policy on transport. I want to say that throughout the policy, and I have called for that many times. So it was a good post if we ignore the toll part of it. I want to say that I hope we now, through SV's view in this case, will not hear again after time that SV is for the railway and towards all the way. I say it again: I hope I don't hear that SV is against roads and only for railways in urban areas. It's wrong, it's wrong, and then it's wrong again. We vote for all the roads in the districts that are needed. Go through all the things, I'll say, you see. I am not in doubt that this way is absolutely vital. This has been a struggle for a long time, and I think it is a pity that colleagues in the Greens are making such a proposal. I think it's really stupid, because I don't think they're making it either. The North Norway Railway must be seen as a separate project, with its own funding, and I think we should be aware that it needs so special funding that we have to be willing to look at other forms of government funding. I have said this sometimes from the pulpit, and some of the parties may meet around it. But anyway, I want to repeat the mantra that I have often said here from the pulpit, and that is that we must build far and safe, not wide and expensive. But if the government parties, and perhaps also the majority here in the hall, think they're going to get me on the road buildings I'm really accepting, they're totally wrong. I would like to mention – and I look at the representative at the place – Møreaksen, Rogfast, Hordfast etc.? I'll do it anyway. I didn't have to do it, but it's direct madness to go in for such projects. Think of how many district roads we could build for those funds. Just think about it. Then we talk about a lot of hole roads in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2901	I'm not going to follow the play that Mr. Nävra had here at the end, because then we're going to extend the debate even more, and I'm not going to do that. I'm just recording that the representative Nävra and SV are for the roads, only they're narrow enough. I want to add a few comments to what has been said about the OPS model because it is repeated on a continuous basis, and I feel that much of the criticism of the OPS models is anchored in the old way of doing it. You don't take it in, and when you draw a parallel to a consumption loan, it's kind of silly, if you're allowed to say it. After all, we have to consider that we have changed the OPS model, just to reduce the disadvantage that might be in any difference in funding costs. This means that when the project is completed, a greater part of the amount of investment is paid early, which means that the disadvantage associated with any different financing costs is significantly lower than in previous OPS models. There's an adaptation that's just been made to do this a better way. Then we take with us all the benefits of the implementation model that OPS is, which is about seeing both investment, operation and maintenance in the context, getting more innovative solutions into this and building smarter and better. What we see is that in the OPS project we have actually delivered and implemented, which opened in 2020, costs were lower than what was foreseen. We saved, if I remember right, one and a half billion just on that project. So it pays off sometimes to dry up thinking again -- that's the main point. So until, with the follow-up to the national transport plan, and there, the representative Hoksrud is quite right: there has been an ongoing problem in several NTPs up in time that the costs of these projects from they enter the NTP until they come out again as a finished project, often 30-40 pst. higher. I don't think there is one NTP that has managed to deliver at the level of ambition that lies in the national transport plan, precisely because there has been a cost development that has been greater than what was used when the NTP was created. One of the main reasons why a person also chooses to carry out some reforms, as we have done in recent years, is precisely to control cost developments, to think about new things, to think differently – portfolio management, New Roads – to work in a different way – just to get more for each krone we use in the transport sector, and in that way to make sure that we can actually realise the level of ambition that lies there. Then it is in the nature of the matter when you roll the NTP every four years, and you have a 10-year or 12-year horizon, that the projects will go back from rolling to rolling, until they are completed. It is part of the predictability contained in the NTP.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2914	The representative of Åsunn Lyngedal has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2919	It is a fact that we adopt the national transport plan in an electoral year. I have rarely heard a representative previously regret that he won the election and thus was the one to implement the national transport plan we adopted in June 2013. Hoksrud was also given the opportunity to do so as a State Secretary in the Ministry of Transport. OPS may only be said to be a model, but it is an expensive model that makes animal operations. And even if you don't pay as much interest as before, you pay more in interest than the state else has to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2926	The representative Siv Mossleth has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2931	It's a bit of a siding, but I have to say this to the representative Hoksrud. I want to point one thing. The representative complains about an exceedance on a road. It is of course a little desirable, but I think the representative of Hoksrud has forgotten something: the representative has forgotten the huge exceedances that have taken place on the railway on the guard of the Progress Party. There have been exceedances so great, for example on Follobanen, that the costs of the Hålogaland road that we are discussing today almost become small money. There has been chaos and no cost control, with the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Finance of the Progress Party, and the costs – the bill – have been sent to people who cannot realise their railway projects, for example. intercity, and it is pushed to the next government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2936	The last one was funny, because I remember which state council put this out. In the twelfth hour, the Folloban came in from nowhere, and I think the bill was down to 8 or 12 billion. kr the first time it was promoted in NTP. There were probably some others who made cost estimates that were far from what was the actual conditions – from the red-green parties. It was a nice approach from the representative Lyngedal to try to explain. It wasn't about the NTP that was adopted, which we, in terms of money, have overfilled and almost doubled. It was about the projects that the red-greens had eight years to implement, which they didn't implement. So there were projects that weren't implemented. There was a list of 27 road projects, I think, that were not completed when the red-green ones went off because they lost the election. So we know that we can get a red-green majority with the Green Party. I think today's VG is clear and clear. They show that if you are concerned about the road, you have to be terrified of it, because then you are at risk of getting an Environmental Party The Greens who have an ambition to stop 36 important road projects across the country. In my county there are several of the road projects they are now planning to scrap and stop, and there is at least not the Progress Party. I also think about the resistance that was among the red-green against Nye Veier – a wonderfully good company that delivers roads at completely different costs than you did before, because you dared to think new. So during eight years of red-green government, there wasn't one thing happening when it came to thinking new and seeing other ways of doing things to save money. As I said, it would have been good if you had not had tolls in this project. Then it would have been even more socio-economically profitable. Then we would have come even further. But I realize that it's a little pointless to discuss it in this room. Anyway, I'm glad the project is coming. It's an important project, and therefore there's really reason to celebrate with the flag to the top in this case as well. For all those who use this way and intend to continue using it, this is important. But as I said, for me, the model is not the important thing. For me, it's actually that we're building, and that we're making it as quick and as cheap as possible for the benefit of those who pay, whether it's toll money or not, whether it's the taxpayers or the drivers who pay it. And we think we should take it over the big budget and maybe use some more of our oil revenues. Because this is about investing now, and then we can harvest in the future and have an even more competitive business. They compete every day against the rest of the world to be the best in the world, and they are, but they say clearly, do something more with the infrastructure. That's the most important thing for a lot of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2952	The President is almost afraid to say so, but the last one is the representative of Harek Elvenes, who has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute. He is the last recorded – so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2957	The representative Lyngedal deliberately or unconsciously forgot a very important element in his OPS consideration. It's going on maintenance. The advantage of a OPS contract is the provision of predictable maintenance. The OPS operator undertakes to maintain this path to given standards over a given period of time. That is to be appreciated by the state, because we know that maintenance often becomes a balancing item in municipal budgets. We look at it in municipal buildings – maintenance has to go hand in hand when other urgent needs have to go ahead – and we also see it in the state on road maintenance. It is a very strong force in the OPS contract that we are able to get predictable maintenance and thus maintain the standard on the road over 20 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2962	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has had the word twice before and also gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2967	It was almost so I didn't dare draw myself to one last remark when I heard the President's words, but I'll be quick. This is not the big debate about OPS, where you're going to fuck up and fight in an ideology debate. Nor should it be the debate on the Green Party and their territorial hostility. What's important at least to me and to those who live in Harstad, in Lofoten, in the brook, in Andy Island, and who use this road often, and it's also to myself, is that this is a joyous day. We could have done it even better if we had avoided the tolls. But there's only one thing to say: Congratulations, Hålogaland! This day is good.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2974	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2991	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e2998	First, I would like to thank the Committee for a good cooperation on this proposition and for the willingness of the Committee to have a relatively quick examination of the matter. The Committee agrees that this is an important project that will mean too many of the citizens of the municipality, but when it comes to funding, I believe that the Progress Party will do its best in this matter. In addition, there are two linguistic corrections. The one thing is that it stands Nome Municipality in Vestfold and Telemark County. It's supposed to be Nome Municipality in Vestfold and Telemark County. Then it says that Nome Municipality treats the matter in a meeting of the City Council. In Nome, it's not city government, it's municipal government. That's what they say. This is a happy day for many in the municipality of Nome in Westfold and Telemark counties and a historic day, because today we are dealing with a very long-awaited and sought-after proposition, which deals with a project that the local people and politicians in the county have been fighting for decades. Project e.g. 359 Kaste–Stoadalen in the municipality of Nome includes construction of 2.9 kilometres of county road in a new line. So the road is now through the Stoa Valley, he stands forward as swinging, narrow and with low traffic safety, and he is little shifting to traffic for soft road users. Part of the road section is close to a sheltered residential area, and the emergence of heavy goods vehicles is greatly reduced. New roads will go outside the Lanna area and will improve conditions for beekeepers, for soft road users and for transit traffic. The project cost is estimated at 313.7 million. kr, and the financing is based on the contribution of Vestfold and Telemark County to 178,4 million. kr. All of this is going to be equivalent to 2020 bills. That's 56.9 pst. of the costs, and the remainder, 43.1 pst., is financed by 135.3 million. Tolls. It is added to toll collection in both directions and NOK 25 in tariff groups 1 and 50 in tariff group 2. It is added to plant start-up during this year, with completion in 2023. Saka is a member of the Municipal Council of Nome on 5 December 2019 and the Telemark County Council on 12 December 2019 and later confirmed, in line with the recommendations of the Swedish Road Administration, by Vestfold and Telemark County Council on 1 September 2020. Finally, it is only to wish the builder happiness with further work and congratulations that many years of work have come to pass and that the project is finally realized.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3013	I'm a little uncertain about how clear the Storting is for a new debate on tolls. There is no doubt that this is an important project in terms of road safety, I understand that, but I also think it is important that the Stortinget should bear in mind that this project is a purely county road – a very cheap project where a very large proportion of the costs of the project are collection and interest expense. There's a project of more than 300 million. Total NOK 222 million. kr shall be required into tolls, approx. 178 million. kr is payable by the county. 222 million. So it is the drivers who have to pay through tolls on a project where there is relatively little traffic. On Friday I met some of the young people who are driving that road every day. I'm going to promise you that they were at least not satisfied with the fact that the majority here is now going to apply them approximately. 800 kroner more each month, given that they have a piece in the car, to drive this way because they either go to school or go to work. I think the Storting must take over that here you are in the process of opening up a waterfall. This is the first project to come from the Vestfold and Telemark County Municipality, but it is already a new project that is likely to come to the government and then to the Stortinget – a new project to partly finance the road toll. And we know that the interest is great and the wishes are there with local politicians around for that way of financing road construction. You have to bring the history here. The funny thing is that it was the red-green ones that decided in 2010 that a pile of highways would be transferred back to the county municipalities because the county municipalities had some tasks to do. So it was decided, it was explicitly stated in the decision from the red-green parties, that you should not have this compensated, they should not fix the road, which is normal when you transfer from one level of administration to another. Then it is even more special and interesting that the county rapporteur who has asked for this today, together with the majority of the county council, at the time when the central party government was in charge of administrative reform. I had hoped that the bulk of the cars had backed up on the proposals of the Progress Party, which said no to demand so much money from the drivers to get so little back to the road. When the Progress Party was in government, we were not in favour of this. That's why we were in Seljord and Åmot and removed the toll station that the red-greens would have, exactly for the same reason. I refer to the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3026	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3031	Now, former Minister of Transport Liv Signe Navarsete came into the hall, under the post of Bård Hoksrud, and the red-greens gave many directions from the state to the state, but they actually gave one billion more than the state spent on the highways. Paradoxically, the county has also spent even more money on the county roads than they got, but it has proved not to be enough. So I hope that when we get to NTP, we can talk about what we're going to do to bet on the county roads. I think this is a good project because it's very long-lasting. Today's route through the Stoadalen is both curved, narrow, with low road safety and little skid to travel for soft road users. The appearance of heavy running gear on the road of the day is greatly reduced, and sometimes heavy running gear has to go away when two heavy running gears meet. New roads outside the Lanna area will improve the conditions for beekeepers, for soft road users and for transit traffic, as well as reducing the environmental disadvantages. So that this is a good project to go for, there is no doubt about it, and no one has meant anything else in this room so far. Then I'll say something about tolls. Road priorities are important and proper use of resources and a good way to ensure good and efficient roads. Tolls are now a central part of the funding base for new projects. With 100 pst. State funding of road projects would have to say no to far more good, ready-to-use road projects for other good purposes. This is what I think is wrong, and therefore I support the financing scheme that Vestfold and Telemark County have created here. The toll scheme, on the basis of which the proposal is based, is based on local decisions in Nome municipality and in Vestfold and Telemark county municipality. It respects the local decisions that are democratically determined. I also noticed the case-speaker Sundbø Abrahamsen's elegant correction of the two linguistic glares that were made. This is the case with a Minister of Transport with a certain dyslexia.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3050	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3055	It may seem like I've exhausted the entire committee, but my question is, what does the Council of State think about going through the toll station 4.2 million times without a single penny of the money being taken all those times, going to a single meter way?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3060	Bringing down the cost of tolls means I'm an important job. We had a debate earlier in the Chamber today, which we discussed, among other things. it by means of road pricing, which could become a more efficient and cheaper instrument. I did not feel that the representative Hoksrud seemed very enthusiastic about that model. So far, toll money is the most effective tool. I myself come from a municipality, the municipality of Bømlo, which has had quite high toll costs, but which has also received a good path. My experience is that it means more to people. They're willing to pay when they see that there's going to be a good, improved way. Whether it's a highway or a county road, I also believe the willingness to pay is there. In this area I know that without willing to contribute myself, it would never have come any new way. If I win 100 pst. stately way, we've actually said that there's no new way here, and that's the worst commandment you can get.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3069	Then I see that the Council of State would have liked to see that road pricing could be a solution, but what you should have done is the solution we had at the time when the Progress Party was part of the government, where you say that that kind of project, with such high collection and interest costs, you don't want to be financed with tolls. Can the Council of State confirm that this government has now abandoned that principle, and that wasting so much money on nothing no longer does anything for this government? The council says this is a big wish locally, but I know that there has been a majority in the local government to say no to this project. They probably feel that there's a pressure on them to actually do it. Does the Council of State think it's okay to push someone to do something they've actually said no to?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3077	I think it's an important principle we use. That principle has been followed by all the Ministers for Transport in Norway for this millennium, and I think that is a good principle: that we follow the local and regional decisions on tolls. We can only relate to the decisions that are made, and there are multiples in Nome Municipality and in Westfold and Telemark County for the decisions that lie here. So I think we should be aware of getting costs down, that's important, and working on it. It has a certain cost of taking money, but it also has a certain cost of taking money over the tax haven. There will not necessarily be effective use only of it, it shows economic analyses from the School of Commerce. It's a cure. I want to say that the most important thing is to get something done with the road, and then I think I must be willing to use tolls in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3084	So the chord change is over. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3105	In our beautiful country, we have many destinations that attract tourists from abroad. Between these are the Flåmsbana perhaps one of the most familiar, but also the Raumabana goes through a spectacular landscape and has had a positive development. However, there is a great difference in growth between the path from Åndalsnes to Dombås and the path from Flåm to Myrdal. To understand the difference in evolution between the Flemish Railway and the Raumabana, we have to take a little look again. From a peak after the OL at Lillehammer in 1994, there was a decline in tourists on Flåmsbana, and there was also a decline in local travellers. NSB announces that they will also crash this trajectory or run only 2 months in the summer. At the initiative of the municipality, the tourism sector in 1997 exceeded the responsibility for the income of the Flemish Railway. Aurland Resource Development AS, abbreviated ARU, and the operating company Flåm Entwicklung AS, FU, were shipped. The first Fåmsbana design train set was delivered in 1998. It was funded by Flåm Entwicklung AS, and after privatisation, the material was held back in the NSB. It was foreseen that the train set would be transferred to Fläm Entwicklung, who had paid for it, but so far it has not happened. NSB, no vy, runs trains on behalf of Flåm Development on 15 years contract. The number of journeys doubled in the first 15 years. Annual sales revenue at Flåmsbana increased by 280 pst. During the period, the ARU had a total surplus of over 200 million. kr, which is mainly reinvested in the Flåm destination to build a destination. Among other things, Flåm AS, a wholly owned subsidiary of ARU, launched in 2014 a new technology-based market and booking platform – perhaps one of the best, not only national but also world-wide. At the same time, open the Fleming New Customer Centre in Fläm. There are also built hotels, there are developed guide systems, it is built out platform, we have covered in Kjosfossen, there are cleared forests, there is a new station area in Fåm and much more – as local initiators and local companies have managed to get in place. This interpellation is by no means the cause of talking down the bet that is made on beautiful Raumabana, a course that Lonely Planet is capable of Europe's most beautiful route, and which is a wonderful experience in beautiful and wild landscapes – and which definitely has future developments. It is therefore very good that there is established cooperation between Flåm Entwicklung and the travel life at Åndalsnes. On the other hand, the interpellation has emerged to show who has done the job of building up the Flåmsbana to an attraction, and why Fåmsbana has been such a great attraction, as the year before the Coronapandemy kicked out the tourism, had one million passengers. There is local one who has invested work and economic resources to build a destination; it is local one who has reinvested the surplus to create values. When NSB sold out of Flåm Entwicklung AS in 2000 after three years as co-owner, one did it with 100 pst. pre-service. When a new service agreement was extended by 15 years in 2013, there was a sharp increase in the price and conditions for the NSB to purchase into Fåm Development, which in the first 15 years had a double passenger number and increased the annual sales income by 280 pst., as mentioned. The price NSB paid was, however, the same as they received when they sold out three years earlier – 10 million. kr. Today, Aurland Resource Development and Norway’s best – like Flåm Entwicklung AS and Flåm AS no hetter – are a valuable company, built up and operated by local forces, which was the king’s thought of the late spokesperson in Aurland, Ivar Bjarne Underdal, when one took over the operation locally. It should also be in the future. Each tenth household in Aurland has its main income from a job related to Aurland Resource Development and Travel Life in Flåm. In today's situation, with the covid-19 pandemic, the municipality of Aurland is with the highest unemployment rate in the West. 95 pst. Tourists coming to Flanders are from abroad, and it goes without saying that there are times when borders are closed. But in the middle of this, the will for investment and growth is great in Aurland Resource Development AS and Norway’s best. It has still been invested, it has been built in the hotel, and there are also plans for additional additions, and a major investment in new panorama cars is at stake. It's an important investment, because the wagons purchased by Flåm Entwicklung AS are starting to get old, and a need for modern equipment should be a good thing to keep up with global tourism. I am absolutely sure that when the pandemic will gradually decline, which we all hope for, the Flanders environment will be ready for new initiatives. But then you ask who is going to buy the new wagons. Is it also this time that Aurland Resource Development, which is then the parent company or group, and Flåm Entwicklung AS, which is now Norway’s best, should be able to buy the wagons, as they did when they started this adventure? Or should the state use our tax money for these investments and not give responsibility to the local actors, as one did at the time? I need an investment of 800 million. SEK-1 billion. in new wagons, a security must be provided for further operation. Therefore, I hope that the Council of State today can confirm that the Flemish Railway will continue to be exempted from competition after 2027, and that the State can enter into a long-term agreement with the Flemish operating company that ensures local management and local jobs after 2027. Everyone prefers a local to have full control and full ownership, but I'm typing we don't get a right answer to that right today. There was good cooperation between the Dwelling Director of the NSB, Osmund Ueland, and the chairman of Aurland and the Labour Party of the Department of Commerce, which made possible the amazing developments for the travel life of Fåm that we have now seen in the past 24 years. The ARU Group has taken all market and operational risks with the tourist runway Flåmsbana since 1997. The concert has also, with the state as the largest owner through Siva, built a whole industry with and around Flåmsbana, including electric sightseeing boats on Nærøjfjorden. It's a fairy tale from the sewer, to say it in good news. I hope that a government governed by the Right as the largest party, and with the Christian People's Party in the Ministry of Transport, will ensure that one has built up, and that what is still to be developed in Flåm and Aurland, can continue to be a localized bet – that one can raise more capital, we know it is possible, it has a done before, and that one can modernise and build on, so that one is ready when the pandemic slows down and can bet to come back to old heights, which is quite clearly well possible to do. I hope that the Ministry of Transport will ensure jobs, and that one ensures that they can talk well together, the different parties, which is the State company Vy and the State’s – at least with the state as the largest owner – ARU and Flåm Entwicklung, or now Norway’s best. I haven't quite waited for the new name, but it'll come soon. It would be strange if a government claimed that the work to strengthen private business was to use the power and economic muscles of the state to compete for flourishing private business in a district municipality. I hope that one is similar to those who run the Ministry of Transport in 1997, sees the value of what is created and of what can be created through good local nutrition development.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3139	I want to thank the interpellant, Liv Signe Navarsete, for taking up an important part of the history associated with Flåmsbana. I agree with the description that this has been a true adventure, because, like many other sideways, Flåmsbana was threatened with closure in the 1990s because of better road links. There was no longer any use of the runway for commercial transport. Strong local travel interests, including the Aurland municipality and the state, have for the past 20 years turned the Flemish Railway and the Flemish area into an international tourist attraction with great ringing effects on the community. The state is today the largest owner of the tourist product Flåmsbana, with a ownership share of 68,25 p.m., then with the Vygruppe and Siva. The success criteria for the Flåmsbana are several, but I want to point specifically to a unique railway, great nature, a strong local commitment, local investment, and, by the way, a state-owned company that has shown a willingness to bet and to invest. The Flåmsbana has a very attractive location in connection with Bergensbana, which is itself a tourist product. The Flåmsbane is a shorter section of the track, which makes it well-suited for tourist traffic. The length of the tour is such that it fits nicely, for example: in a stop on a cruise boat, or it may be experienced as part of a day trip based on public transport, ‘Norway in a nutshell’. In 2019, Flåmsbana had 939 305 travelers, who gave about 233 million. kr in traffic revenue, in addition to the ringing effects of other tourism activities in the Flemish region. I thought it was a good clarification the representative Navarsete had, that it wasn't to talk down Raumabana, but actually to see the unique thing that has happened to the Flåmsbana. Raumabana, as pointed out, has not had a corresponding development. There are several reasons for this. The runway has been developed as a tourist attraction over several decades, and both state and local actors have cooperated to develop the tourist area in the area. The tourist bet on Raumabana has started in more recent times. The former NSB started in 2008 a venture on tourism trains on Raumabana and has therefore not had the same time to develop the product as the tourism industry on the Flåmsbana. The fact that Raumabana has less passenger capacity than the Flemish Railway has also made it more challenging to create profitable investment in tourism. More of the cruises have prioritised points of call other than Åndalsnes for their tours. Tour operators have shown greater interest in including a trip on the Flåmsbana than on Raumabana. The regional tourism operators in the sub-sidiary of the three Western states, Fjord Norway, have also been more active in the marketing of the region around Flåm in the foreign travel market. In spite of this, there is much evidence that the attractiveness of Raumabana to tourism will increase for years to come. SJ Norway, which won the competition for Traffic Package 2, which includes Raumabana, is investing heavily here and cooperates with several travel and experience actors in the region and with the municipality. Just because SJ is a net contractor and has won a competition against other companies, we now see a whole new give to Raumabana. SJ has great faith in Raumabana and believes there is a significant unsolved potential for increased tourist traffic on the track, ensuring that the supply is further developed. On this basis, SJ Norway will introduce from December 2021 two new take-offs in each direction between Åndalsnes and Dombås. The company also proposes to further develop the provision of services and services on the route in order to increase customer satisfaction and create increased interest and demand. Several actors are now investing in the development of tourism services in the Rauma region, including: with the construction of new gondola in Åndalsnes. To sum up when it comes to the first challenge from the representative of Navarsete: I think that the success criteria for the Flemish Railway are just the unique thing about the railway, about tourism, but also about the local initiative that has been playing there, which the representative points to, and that it has our state companies that have been willing to bet, with Siva and NSB. So ask the representative if it is a state core task to use scarce public resources before passenger transport to develop tourist destinations. When it comes to the question of using public funds in passenger transport to develop tourist destinations, this is regulated in the railway legislation. Public funds paid to undertakings providing rail transport services as a public service shall be provided separately in the relevant accounting and shall not be transferred to the undertaking for the provision of other transport services or other activities. So it has to be a clear distinction. This should be done by accounting, so that it is possible to monitor the ban on transferring public funds paid to one enterprise to another. State Railway Surveillance, as a market surveillance body, supervises precisely these requirements. So it shouldn't be a cross-subsidy. Within these frameworks, an important objective of the competitive deployment of passenger train services is precisely to stimulate innovation and innovation, including in the field of tourism, in order to trigger commercial means of investment. As mentioned, the Traffic Package 2 and the Raumabana bet as a tourist attraction are a good example of this. The same is Traffic Package 3, where the winner of the Vy train has ambitious plans for tourist transport on Bergensbana, and where the company brings up close cooperation with local travel life interests along the whole course. I would also like to show that the Stortinget has joined the ambition of NSB AS, no Vy, as a broad transport group with passenger trains, goods by road, bus and travel. This was last confirmed in Prop. 131 S for 2016 – 2017, Innst. 472 S for 2016-2017. It is also worth noting that Siva, the largest owner of Aurland Resource Development, is owned by the Ministry of Food and Fisheries. According to the Statutes, the aim of Siva, through its ownership and innovation activities, is to be the country’s instrument for facilitating the investment and development of enterprises and the business and knowledge environment throughout the country. Siva has a special responsibility to promote growth in the districts. In this way, the bet in Flåm is a good example. Tourists are an important and profitable customer group for passenger transport, and increased ticket revenue from this group will contribute to a reduction in the cost of public procurement of transport services by the state, while at the same time contributing to the local value creation of tourism. As the manager of the state's ownership of the Vygruppe AS, I am concerned that the company's investment before travel is supported by the company's core business, which I think it does, and Vy has had a profitable investment in travel life. We still have to deal with the ban on cross-subsidisation of public funds, and I'm assuming that the Vygroup stays within these limits. The experience of Fåm shows that tourism is important for the health of its tourists. Therefore, tourism is often an important way of increasing the profitability of passenger transport, while contributing to local value creation. I am concerned about the perspective that the representative, Liv Signe Navarsete, outlined here, that the positive developments that have taken place in Flåm will continue. Now we have an exceptional state with a pandemic, but we want the positive development that was there before the pandemic to continue when we get out of the pandemic. There are some issues that I think there should be a reason why the Directorate-General for Railways is looking at. One of the issues that will be addressed here, which, to the extent that both actors are clear, is to look at the 2027 release of competition, and I'd like to consider assigning a mission to the Directorate of Railways. The mission will be to make a closer assessment of the issue related to train equipment on the Runway, precisely in the light of the issue raised by the representative Navarsete, because there is a need to invest. I would like to go into it when I have a little bit more time, because I think that the Directorate of Railways should make assessments so that we can now secure a bet. The problem settings are also very difficult, for example. that which is attached to the ownership and, where appropriate, the hall. Yeah, there was a hall, but it happened after an initiative from the NSB at that time. That initiative has not come, but there are two actors who both want to have these ownership interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3177	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am very happy to hear that he shares my wish, and certainly wished for many others in the Chamber, that the positive developments we have seen can continue. In 2008 I was with the late director of the NSB and ran Raumabana and saw some of the attractions that lie along the path. I also got birds in my stomach over the amazing view that one has on the course. I very much hope that one will also get the same lift that one has received in Flame. Because I think for districts like Rauma or Aurland, such bets mean enormous. It's actually corner stone companies a developer. Looking at one of the additions, it is quite unlikely that the operating company in Fåm has added 80 full-time and can add up to 200 part-time in the high season. As one has also entered and invested in the Dark Valley, one also has winter tourism. This ensures that all year round work places are filled and that they can be increased. The challenge we've seen in travel life in many places is that one has good people, but it's not good to give them all year round jobs. Then one misses them and has to go out the next few years and recruit again and again. The goal must be that you can maintain a full-time job and that you can provide good working conditions. I mean, one's done. It's clear that with 80 added to a small municipality like Aurland, we're talking about a corner stone company. What I hope the Council of State can say a little more about, was what he started to talk about at the end of his article, because it's in the future we are. I'm talking a little bit about the past, and it almost has to do to understand the developments that have been taking place, and the fact that one in 1997 actually gave the operating responsibility to the local bet. For all of us, since we're talking about local bets, I've never neglected and I don't want to do that either, that the state has been a patient owner when it owes it to Siva's commitment. That it has been important, there is no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3188	I thank you for the feedback from the representative of Navarsete. I'm busy getting the local development we've seen there. Paradoxically, the ownership structure we have there, quite optimally on paper, with both local interests and a national company. So I see that there are some challenges, and one of the challenges it's pointed to is that it's material, that we have a material that should be replaced. We have a preoccupation until 2027, and both parties point out that there is a rather short perspective for making new investments. That is why I consider giving a job to the Directorate-General for Railways with a very short deadline. The mission will be to make a closer assessment of issues related to Flanders rail on rail, including the assessment of different options for local, regional and national transport needs, as well as other needs and synergies, by the Railway Directorate. This should include a focus on the proper functioning of the collective system with the tourism industry. This means that the local travel needs should also be met. In the light of this, the Directorate shall also define the scope of the public service obligation and recommend how the associated problem settings, such as ownership and organisational structure of train equipment and responsibility for train running, shall be resolved. This shall illustrate how a variegated approach to meeting local, regional and national transport needs, the development of travel and business in the area and other synergies in terms of reducing the need for government remuneration. Today, the group of visions has been given a one-off right. With a reduced need for government remuneration, other solutions, such as the delimitation of one-right, no one-right, may also include the possibility for operators to pay for the purchase of the stretch. To what goes on with 2027, which both parties point out that they don't want to be part of: if one just takes it out of the competition, it will open up a free run, and I don't think none of the players want it that way. But in the current legislation, if they just leave the ground of competition – one must then look at the possibility – then there will really be a free right of establishment. It won't be possible for that. I've met the different parties here, and ARU, Aurland Resource Development, has come with leadership that I also want to record. This is because they want a backsal on market terms by the state, by the Vygruppe. There is something I do not want to comment on here today, but there are questions that it is natural that we look at.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3201	Thank you to the interpellant, who raises an important matter in Stortinget. I also think that some of the last Council of State said, are signals that at least I think are good, that the Council of State is thinking about and looking further on it, also this with the Railway Agency in view of the material, etc. I also think it's important to bring the history and what happened. It was like the state really didn't want to be that much involved, and so it became Aurland Resource Development and Siva. The state has come back again, the old NSB came back again. The Flåmsbanen is an amazing and great travel life offer, which has had enormous positive development. It wasn't an enormous state commitment the time you were about to drop and you got this new offer in place. I definitely see the challenges now with an investment in a place between 800 million and 1 billion and the need for new equipment. Obviously that means you need predictability around it. As I said, it's been 24 years to build a fantastic offer, which is of course important locally. It's about a lot of jobs in the municipality. However, it is also a fantastic national travel offer, which we must continue to cheer on and ensure that we continue and have the opportunity to develop further. Then you see the challenges that the Council of State was also a little bit faced with – View as a train company and transport company, and how much you're going to do with the other part that goes on with travel life. That is why I think it is good that the Council of State says that he will not of course say anything here today, but that there is definitely something to look at. It also provides an opportunity for the company, if you choose to say that you are no longer going to do business, that you can either get money into the company or you can get money into the state fund, if you want to. It's fast a lot of money, if you want to follow it up. I think the interpellant had good considerations and good challenges to the Council of State, which the Council of State answered in a good way on many things. But this is also a matter that the Progress Party will continue to work on.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3214	Thank you to the interpellant for raising this issue, because I think this is a very principleal and also a little bit important issue. From one that comes from a little further up, from the North West, and a little closer to Raumabanen: we have looked towards Flåm and looked at the success the Flåmsbanen has actually become, from a tourist perspective. It's clear that we would like to see us do something similar to the Raumaban. I think it's simply the potential for that, because as an attraction, the Raumaban is fantastic. I also feel that the interpellant thinks, and sees the possibilities in it. So I don't think of this as a competitive relationship. On the contrary, these two tourist attractions can complement each other in a good way, and on which we can build. I believe that much of what has been done to the Flåmsbanen is due to the fact that there is a strong local initiative behind it. It's basically an example of follow-up, because the local anchoring we see in the work that has been done on the Flåmsbanen, I think maybe the most important success criterion, because then a lot of money is reinvested in developing the offer that tourists will have. I feel that the Council of State also treats this with caution, in the sense that there is a constellation here and a cooperation that one, at least from the outside, should believe was really well rigged to find good solutions. So I guess I feel that there's something more demanding than what it might look like from the outside. At the same time, I think we're going to be careful about breaking up structures that have been shown to give such a result, such a success as it is the Flåmsbanen. As far as the Raumaban is concerned, there is a lot of excitement in Åndalsnes, in the valley of Rome in terms of the development of Rauma and Åndalsnes and the whole valley as a tourist attraction, just because we see it, for example. Now a gondola track is being built up on Nesaksla, a fantastic project that is going to contribute very positively. There are ambitions from those who won the bid to develop the offer on the track. The Rauma is also part of the integrated passenger train service in Norway to a greater extent than the Flemish Railway is, and I think building on and taking out the potential of tourism in that area will be extremely valuable. Then I register what the Council of State says in terms of a mission to the Directorate of Railways and to continue working on this. I think that's good. We need, I think, to be calm about the developments that are taking place with the Flåmsbanen, which, hopefully, can also be an example of follow-up and an opportunity to continue, for example. to Raumabanen. I know there's a cooperation, at least a dialogue about it, between these actors. I really appreciate that, because I think, as I said, the Raumaban can have a lot of the same potential. It is extremely important, at least as I see it, that we are able to take care of the local initiative, the local investment will and the local anchoring of this type of project, because it is what I think gives the greatest success factor here, that is, that so much of the money is reinvested in developing the product. That's when we really get to the good solutions. It is very difficult to go much more concretely to work now, other than really just supporting, I think, the intention of what the interpellant addresses, namely that we have to make sure to preserve the local initiative, the locality, the local anchoring, no matter what solution it might be to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3233	It was fun that several people took part in the debate, and I experience that both the Council of State and the others who have spoken want a positive development further. I also hope you can find solutions that do, because I think it is important that a thing to work together and find a model that has proven to be successful, and it has actually been the model that is there today. And then the former NSBs were in and out; they were in and out after two and a half years, in 2000, and then they came back in 2013. They've been in and out a little bit, so speaking of breaking structures, it's certainly depending on how you view it. There is no one who wants to squander anyone, but what is important then is that if one is to have parties inside, it must be in the parent company, i.e. in ARU, Aurland Resource Development, because it can't be so that someone can go in and house a little of the inner fillet, to say it like that, and just focus on exchange from it, while other parties, who are then the local company, will take all the costs with the surrounding company, who are involved in building up under one's supply. Because it's not just a path, it's a lot more than that. There's probably several ways to Rome, but it's important that one comes to you, and it's important that one comes to you quite quickly. I experience the council so that he takes this into account, and that he does it thoroughly, but I hope he does not do it so thoroughly that it takes too long, for time is also an important factor in this. There are plans and needs to expand the hotel capacity, there are plans for the centre area and further development there, there are plans for new attractions at Vatnahalsen station, and one also sees whether it is possible to put the old bulwark of Finland into operation. But first of all, a few new cars will be on the Flåmsbana. Together, we are talking about billions of investments, and those who are going to be in this split-up layer, or in the company, should be inside the parent company. It would be interesting to say a little bit about the time perspective, because once I hear the word "out" and "out" and "out" and "out" and "out" and "out" and "out" and "out" and "out" and "out" and "out" and "out". I hope the Council of State is as impatient as the interpellant is, and that one can find a solution to this before it goes too long.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3244	I don't think this debate is the easiest one to get into for those who haven't worked on it, but I know that the representative Liv Signe Navarsete has done, and I also believe another, who is in this room, who had the job before me, has been in and understood the complexity here. I think it's a good summary Navarsete comes along, that there's a positive development that needs to continue, and that we need to find solutions that contribute to it. The paradox is that the model that has been there until today has worked. However, we see that there are some contradictions of interest that make it possible that we have to look at solutions in order for positive developments to be there in the future. In any case, my intention is that the development that is taking place with the Flemish Railway today should continue. I was particularly challenged about the time perspective. I would have thought that the assignment I give to the Directorate of Railways would have a deadline of just over the summer, and I'm thinking at the beginning of August. So we're looking at the train equipment, but it's a lot of value, it's a big purchase, and we should, as some of the actors here point out, sell, there's also a lot of value that we're talking about. I think it's important to point out, because here's a success that's become so big that it's also about big values, it's about our common values that we're going to take care of, and it's leading for me. So there's also a difference, and that's that in 2000 when the NSB chose to go out, it was at the request of the NSB. Today it's like this, and I've obviously met with both actors, that they want this both. It's a part of making this problem a little more complex than it was at the time. Nevertheless, we must learn the lesson from looking at why this has become a success, and there is no doubt that the local commitment and leadership for it has been entirely decisive for the success of the Flemish Railway. So I also point to that with a competitive exposure. We have a case in this room that has meaning for it, because it also depends on how the fourth railway package of the EU is being implemented, before we look at that issue. But the train equipment itself is the most precarious, which is also about a continuation after 2027, because 2027 is too soon when it comes to investments in the size we're talking about here. I would like to thank you for a good round and for a good debate, which I thought is very positive in the future for the Flåmsbana, but that there are not only simple evaluations in this case, there is no doubt either.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3257	The interpellant debate is over. Case No. 8 and 9 will be treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3287	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines with replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3294	I would like to thank the Committee for good cooperation in these two matters that are now under consideration. We agree that Nav is a carrier in the Norwegian welfare state and that they have a comprehensive social mission. Nav has been in a demanding year, for unemployment has been the highest since the interwar period. The main work of the hub in the future is to help more people get into work and fewer people go on social welfare, by preventing and preventing vulnerable groups from remaining permanently out of education or working life. In further detail, I would like to explain to the Right to take care of this. There are a number of initiatives taken to include more people in the world of work, including: through inclusion, youth action, the establishment of market contacts and a number of agreements with enterprises at regional and local level. Work on helping people with mental health challenges in the workplace is further significantly strengthened, including the following: through the methodology of individual job support, which will provide a coordinated offer of job-oriented follow-up and treatment. The methodology is research-based and has a positive impact on the transition to work. In 2021, individual job support schemes targeted specifically at young people under 30 years of age were also established. It is also worth noting that the recipients of redundancy payments are now getting faster and closer follow-up. The aim of the conversion was faster clearance and increased transition to work. It is also important to note that alternative life support benefits exist for this group, such as action grants, qualification aid and economic social assistance. It is too early to consider the changes that have been made, as those that are fully covered by the regulatory changes have not completed the social benefits race yet, but we will follow this closely. Furthermore, the government has made considerable efforts to increase the proportion of permanent job creation, while wanting greater emphasis in ordinary enterprises through greater flexibility between these two measures. The Nav reform was a demanding reform, and since its establishment, a major development effort has been carried out, with major changes in both organisation, systems and services. Report. St. 33 for 2015–2016, NAV for a new time – for work and activity, presented concrete strategies and measures to make Nav more labour-oriented, strengthen contacts with employers and facilitate user meetings with the administration. The partnership between the municipality and the state provides opportunities for a comprehensive and individualised approach to the individual user at the local Nav office, adapted to local conditions and needs. A R & D report carried out by NORCE from 2020 points out that the development of cooperation is moving in the right direction. An AFI report from the same year shows that both municipal and Nav leaders believe that the partnership promotes cooperation and improves the ability of Nav offices to fulfil their tasks. The report further specifies that this partnership needs further revitalisation and needs to continue. The labour and welfare management has never been more accessible, and Nav has undergone a digital transformation over the last few years, where Nav.no has become the largest ‘Nav Office’. Several use digital self-service solutions and participate in digital user dialogues, which release resources and enable better follow-up of those who need it. For example, the automation of the custody system in Nav released almost 200 case handlers. The ABE reform has further contributed to improving the efficiency of the community and creates room for action for priorities in the State budget. Total ABE savings in the labour and welfare budget for the years 2015-2020 have been around 442 million. kr. These efficiencies have been weighed up by new means of investment, such as youth, inclusion, the follow-up of the long-term unemployed, etc. While there has been an ABE cut, there has also been an increase in the number of Nav employees, which has been realised through these initiatives, but also through internal redeployments in the department where one has twisted resource use for user follow-up at the Nav offices. The Nav employees are the front line staff in our welfare state and need to have back coverage to cooperate widely across services and sectors, including health and education. To further innovation in Nav, we believe that cooperation with private actors, social entrepreneurs and the voluntary sector will be crucial. Right-wing believes that Nav's ability to convert, develop and coordinate makes them well equipped to solve the societal challenge. Now we have to give Nav and the municipalities the opportunity to continue and develop the good cooperation. With that, I recommend the Committee's settings.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3324	The Labour Party is going to vote on three concrete promises to ordinary people. Strengthened public welfare is one of them. That is what we are going to achieve with a trust reform in the public sector, where the competence of employees is to be raised up and up. Our proposal for a strengthened Nav is a concrete example of how this can be implemented. Moreover, in the case of Nav, the question of trust has two different dimensions — giving greater confidence to employees, but also restoring trust from users after the big scandal. The proposal has been drawn up in close cooperation with the Nav staff organisations, as a concrete example of where work on trust reform must begin. At the same time, it is important for the Workers' Party to stress that good work is done on many levels in Nav. People at work in the public sector have a lot to be proud of. During the Korona crisis, public servants have shown the importance of the work they do for the community. This also applies to the Nav employees. It must be built on, but in this proposal we point to what we believe to be important challenges for Nav. They are primarily of a political nature. The Labour Party believes that the bourgeois government conducts the wrong policy. It's about lack of resources, lack of decision-making power close to users and constant cuts in social welfare schemes. Too many Nav users encounter a system where the controllers are away from people, and where the services are frowned upon by competitive outsourcing, ordering-executive models, internal billing and accountability powdering, and where new cheese needs are implemented year after year without goals and meaning. Basic welfare services are not market and competitive output. Instead, local Nav offices must be given the powers and trust they need to exercise their mandate. Mutual trust between supervisor and user is not achieved when recommendations from the first line are constantly being reviewed at a higher level. The review report following the EEA scandal pointed out just that. It highlighted the lack of competence, capacity, communication and critical thinking, and that so-called efficiency measures have led to a lack of professional and resource prerequisites in order to properly discharge its professional responsibilities. Nav is an important manager of our common safety net. In the case of cut-offs, gaps arise in this safety network. The large cuts in redundancy payments are a clear example of this. Without certainty of income, it becomes impossible to discuss measures to get into work. The responsibility is placed more heavily on the individual user, who does not receive the time needed for successful clearance, whether for work or for social security. The bidding regime, which runs part of the work measures, has resulted in users with the weakest assumptions being offered a lower offer than before. The taskbar is important, but it should be an offer, not a whip. The competence of employees is crucial. The Nav competence analysis should be carried out in order to ensure the right competence at all levels. Social skills are particularly important, but also juss, organisational, social and labour market skills, while at the same time providing employees with the space they need to use their competences for the benefit of users. In that perspective, the partnership between the State and the municipality is also important. Nav is completely dependent on local anchoring, close interaction between state and municipal services and good cooperation with local jobs and business to succeed in their societal mission. So it's also essential that we have an accessible hub. Digital services have many advantages. However, the gain must be used properly — make sure that those in need of the personal meeting actually get it. It's not like that today. In this connection, I refer to the two draft representatives on opening hours, which we are also discussing now. The rapporteur deserves to be grateful for having contributed to the fact that at least some steps have been taken in the right direction by a unanimous committee. The minority proposals Nos. However, 1-13 shows an impatience from the red-green part of the opposition. The government parties and the Progress Party lack the willingness to move decisions closer to the users, and a recognition that the way not to go is not to cut benefits if we are to get more people to work. I am addressing the proposals made by the Workers' Party together with others in the two settings.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3343	The representative Lise Christoffersen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3348	Let me first say that I am pleased that today the Storting joins the proposal of the Progress Party in our Document 8 proposal, and with that in mind that it will be available to everyone when one needs the services of Nav. Either you can use the digital services or depend on physical attendance, there must be a Nav office setting up when the individual user or citizen needs to respond. I am also pleased that, today, we are in favour of a number of the proposals put forward by the Labour Party in its Document 8 proposal. Just because the Nav reform is a major and demanding reform, it is important to bear in mind that the change in the public sector is not only happening at the time when you actually change – there is a need to adapt services on an ongoing basis to the needs that change in society. I'm completely overconfident that in the light of the pandemic situation in Norway and the world in the last year, we will see a greater need and greater pressure for the services like this. Nav is an important part of the solution in the coming years. It is decisive that no increase in unemployment is now allowed to get stuck so that several ports are permanently out of work. For this reason, it is important that the services provided by Nav are constantly improved and that the public sector is able to adapt and adapt to the needs of the private sector. I feel that the proposals put forward today by the Progress Party in the original proposals of the Labour Party are important contributions to this. I also notice that the government has announced an increase in the number of VTA sites as late as today. It is gratifying and entirely in line with what the majority today propose in the consideration of this Document 8. It is an understanding that even if everyone, both the individual worker and most political parties, thinks that it would be best for as many people as possible to survive in the ordinary working life without permanent organisation, one can see that if we are to be able to reduce the proportion of the population who are permanently out of work – with the disadvantages it has both for income development and for social and for a number of other conditions – it is in fact that we are going to be able to do something about it over time. The fact that we are asking for a stepping-up plan today is important for the Progress Party. In addition, it is important to bear in mind that Nav cannot live in isolation in a bubble, but actually has to act as an integral part of the total supply provided by the state, through both educational institutions and close association with rehabilitation institutions, specialist services or others, which actually means that we get people who are temporarily out of work back quickly. There will also be a good record in the proposals that are being made in a number of cases today. I would therefore like to thank the Cooperation Committee for these important achievements.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3363	First, I would like to raise the proposal of the Centre Party No. 2 on case No. 9, in the middle. 379 S for 2020-2021. The centre party will also subsidize proposal No. Proposals for Decisions I and II shall be put to the vote and as a subsidiary. The hub would become one door in. Nav should be the safety net for all residents in Norway. Nav should ensure good management of benefits, labour-oriented measures and social services. Unfortunately, this has not happened. Nav is no longer one door in for the many. It has rather become a door out into a colder society, or a place where one stands outside with the grid in his nose, to say it directly. How could Nav go from one door to offices with an average opening time of four hours per week in all the municipalities of the country? It's totally unreal. Section 4 of the Social Services Act states: ‘Services provided under this Act shall be sound.’ Digitalisation is a necessity for modern societies and for better use of allocated resources and capacities, and the Central Party wholeheartedly supports digitisation. But it's not fair to just rely on digital meeting rooms. Professionals know that, and they're the ones who need help. This, which is today the system, provides the basis for a terrible class division. But it doesn't seem that the majority in this hall is taking it up, much less the government, nor the management of the Nav. I am so disappointed that I almost cannot be told. There is a marked and clear distinction between those who can and have resources to make use of the digital services and those who cannot. Bank cards, access to the Internet, mobile phone and PC are essential for digital contacts to work. Does Nav assume everyone has that kind of care? Or is it really such that Nav is stressing the situation, so that now one is going to have so many into the digital world that one with open eyes sees that many of these outside? I see it this way, that the pressure is so hard that one with open eyes sees a number of people falling by. I can't understand it any other way. Obviously, the majority of the population, the government and the Nav management know that the many with the problems of addiction and psychiatry, the many blind, the many who are very old, are not able to exploit the digital world in the same way that we are in a different situation. Nevertheless, this continues and the Channel Strategy is being used. I would encourage everyone to call on the channel strategy, experience it when helping their fellow human beings, see how long you stand in line and see how it works, considering that one should not see the complex challenges to man, but one point at a time. I have to say I'm pretty sad and sad about what's happening here. The centre party has said that there should be opening hours on Nav that are at least similar to those at the town hall in the municipality. We're not going to get upset about that. We're not getting any answers on concrete wordings related to better manning. We are not given any information that those who are in the local offices in urban areas and municipalities should have greater responsibility and greater authority to do a good job, which was the whole precondition for the Nav reform. Instead, we get formulations from the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party in a position where it is said: ‘Digitalised services release resources, enabling better follow-up of those who need it’. Have I heard that before? Have I heard before that it allows better follow-up? I've heard it many times. I also heard under the red-green government that it allowed better follow-up. But that's not what's happening. That's practice, that's what's happening, that's what's important here. Right and Christian People's Party says: ‘Where municipalities often have limited opening hours, a large majority can seek help from Nav 24 hours a day.’ Yes, the great majority can, but there are thousands of people in the minority who don't get the help and the information they need every day. That's how I can keep going. Ragnhild Guddal, the project leader of the Light in everyday life in Bærum, was one of the perpetrators of what is the proposal of the Center Party. I have to say it is strong to experience that Ragnhild Guddal is being taken to the income of the Workers' Party's remarks, while the Workers' Party is voting against the proposal that Ragnhild Guddal is so dedicated to being implemented, namely that the offices should be open so that her fellow human beings can get assistance every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3398	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3403	Nav is something quite different today than what was meant when the reform was adopted in its time. This is a lot of reason why there's so much noise around Nav, and that's also why a lot of parties, including SV, are now proposing a lot of changes to Nav. I'm going to believe that every week the entire committee gets individual things on the table from people who feel misunderstood and mistreated by Nav. It's quite understandable when you see how Nav's streamline processes almost all of the things they get in, without taking particular care of the individual picture. We in SV believe that much would have been done with a powerful hub manning and an adjustment of each decision being taken. Most of the case handlers in the Nav First Line Service have far more people on the list than they can have if they are to be able to provide quality in the follow-up of each individual. Many report an amount of cases of up to 100 people per case handler, and these are case handlers to help and follow up individuals in a difficult situation, without a real authority to take decisions. They are simply tied to their hands and feet in their work every day. The main argument that authorities should not be able to take decisions in each Nav office is to ensure a greater level of non-discrimination. But we see how this has turned out completely wrong when there is no individual concern about each case. People are locked in an eternal dance with failed actions and strict deadlines that just make it even harder to get into work eventually. If a compound disease is present today, it is almost guaranteed a round dance with squabbling and misunderstandings at Nav, as well as waiting for treatment in the health care system. This situation, as it is today, will most likely last for three years, and it is poor with continuous follow-up in these three years for people with complex diseases. The cooperation between Nav and the health services is very poor for these people, but for some others it is true that Nav works well. For those who are going to have parental leave, or now also care allowance, or sick pay, the system works so as to say no to most people. But is it that one needs more help than that – work training, redundancy money – there are quite a number of changes that are needed to make the system work well. We need much more liberality in the rules in the local Nav office. We need to have more confidence in the professionals in the First Line Service, and we need to add more and a truly open Nav office in each municipality. This will be a start on getting a working hub for those who need it the most. Finally, I would like to mention a single matter I got on the table last week. A guy who's been stuck in a big company that he's been working for many years, struggling with health and now has 60 pst. work clearance money and 40 pst. job. He must supply a report card as a job seeker even if he is not a job seeker. He's sick. Had he had the opportunity to work more, he had increased the position he already has. In this way he himself feels that he must lie by submitting his report card and saying that he is looking for a job. What should I say? This is completely behind the goal. It's a bad system when it can't even be adapted to reality better than this. I finally take up the proposal SV is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3424	The representative of Solfrid Lerbreck has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3429	Of course, we in the Christian People's Party agree that it is important to ensure that Nav provides good services to the people. The most important thing for the future Nav is to help more people get into work and less on social benefits. Nav has gone through a digital transition, where several people get digital guidance, and many self-preservation solutions have been used. We need to be aware that there are now a lot of people, especially young people, who have great digital skills. Nevertheless, it is important to make provision for those who are not on the digital arena. A holistic review of Nav will provide us with an answer to how efficient resource use is, and to what extent challenges are solved in the most efficient way possible. The Christian People's Party sees the need for close cooperation between employers and Nav. It includes both the public and the private sector. A large-scale effort on labour market measures helps deferred groups to return to work. This cooperation is already taking place today, but it can be better. The Christian People's Party has long fought for the VTA system, where people with developmental disabilities or mental disorders and other groups can get work done. Therefore, the Christian People's Party will support an extension of this offer in the future. It is particularly gratifying that we have received 300 new job creations in the revised national budget. Since 2013, the Christian People's Party (Christian People's Party) in and outside the government has received support for an increase of 2,400 organized jobs. It makes sense with a further escalation plan, and here the Christian People's Party will go in front. The local Nav office provides a good starting point for a holistic and personalised effort. Nav offices must not be centralised; they must be out of the local state. Social entrepreneurs and voluntary sector play an increasingly important role in supplementing Nav's supply. The individual Nav office needs freedom of action to adapt services to local circumstances, for the benefit of users. Although many of the services are digital, it is still important to many that the Nav office is an accessible office. Christian People's Party refers to messages from AAP recipients who express dissatisfaction with the scheme. It is absolutely crucial that individuals receive rapid and close follow-up, with a view to early clarification. To ensure that one reaches this intention, the system should be evaluated and, if necessary, amended, so that we have a background for a knowledge-based discussion and decision. A close follow-up at the individual level and good cooperation between services across etaters is crucial for getting more people to work, not least now, following many unemployed people because of the pandemic.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3445	It must be allowed to say that there are very comprehensive proposals we are discussing here today. The articles then also bear quite a mark of the fact that there is really a discussion about all aspects of Nav, from the conception of the Nav reform. It is worth remembering that even though the Nav reform came under Bondevik II, it was not under the Bondevik II government with its government parties that it got its final design – there were other parties on the Stortinget that provided. But that's it. There's a consensus about a part here. It is agreed that Nav is an important and central part of the welfare state, and that the main effort is to get more people to work and to prevent people from falling permanently out of work. Normally, at least throughout history, there's been some excitement that an important part of it is also what you often call the line of work. I have to say that I do not agree that the workline is just an offer – it is also an offer; it is an offer to get people who want to work, to work, but it also implies a particular view of, for example, the performance in Norway. This means that there has been, at least in the past, an agreement that the level of what is paid on a public benefit cannot be so high that it is unreasonable for those who are in the labour market. Then we're not talking about the high-paid jobs, but about those who have normal, maybe often low-paid jobs, and that there has to be a certain connection there. It's also worth just bringing with you, even if it's a hindrance, that the coronary epidemic has created an exceptional state. Unemployment has increased. There was no previous parallel to this situation and what happened in the Norwegian labour market in a few short weeks in March to April last year. In particular, hubs were under extreme pressure and affected procedural times, availability and response times, and the rules of infection have also affected opening hours. Nav has had to deal with a massive increase in the number of applications for daily allowances, and the need for follow-up of multiple users has increased. At the same time, Nav at record speed has had to develop completely new system solutions, which would both deliver on Stortinget's orders and, at best, try to minimise the risk of abuse and be as reliable as possible. I think that Nav in general, given the conditions, has delivered very well. But that doesn't mean that Nav hasn't been too much available, and not many have experienced long waiting times. There's no time now to go through everything about Nav, but I want to say that the government, also in the case of Nav, has the ability to prioritise and put some things in the high seat. We have been concerned with the efforts directed at young people. That's why it's reinforced, for example. for young people under 30 years of age. An evaluation by Fafo of the intensified youth effort — which is not only a political guarantee, but a real effort — also shows that young people get faster follow-up, most of them after a few weeks. We have prioritised inclusion, organisation and VTA sites, we have prioritised activity obligations, and we have prioritised cooperation projects across health. One of the main priorities in the future will be cooperation on education and training – Nav. The proposers are concerned that the welfare management should be available to all users. I agree, and I think it is a very good thing that Stortinget acts as an ombudsman. In many discussions about the many ombudsmen we have and get in Norway, it is often important to remember that Stortinget is the most important ombudsman in a popular democracy like ours. That's good. At the same time, there are two things worth saying. One thing I would like to point out is that for most people in Norway — and most Nav users too — it is actually essential that Nav is properly and properly present on digital surfaces. This is not something reserved for a small elite in Norway, this is something that most people enjoy, and the easier, simpler and better information is there, and the simpler and more automated handling is there, the faster people get, for example. their daily allowance, which unfortunately has to be handled manually today. The second is that the coronary epidemic has been a state of emergency. This also means that opening hours in some Nav offices have been greatly reduced. But from Nav's point of view – not least because they have good, wise and knowledgeable employees, whom I also fully agree that we should have a better overview of their skills and knowledge – they have also made it clear, or at least tried at best, to follow up the most vulnerable users in cases where it has not been possible to make agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3462	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3467	The Council of State said that youth investment has worked positively. Yeah, that's right, that's right, but maybe especially for young people who are moving into further education. With the young people who are struggling, the same report shows that things have not gone so well. I'm thinking in particular of the 20,000 young disabled — twice the number of disabled people that was when this government took over. In this respect, I would like to refer to the Academy of Nav, which says that they are sceptical that computer tools should be able to find accurate, job-oriented measures based on input information, that there are many computer systems today that make the follow-up of users demanding, and that although tools are needed to assist, they cannot replace the assessments and guidance needed to help people get into work. Does the Council of State see that the Academy of Nav has a point here?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3476	Yes, the academics in Nav have a point. Of course, digitised data cannot replace human assessments or follow-up, but it does not mean that digitised data cannot be important for example. the dimensioning of measures and measures, and not least in order to better assess which measures actually work and where they do so. So a few other comments. It's just in the follow-up of young people who are struggling, this government has put in shock, and that's precisely where Nav's youth effort has an extra amount to say. It's right there, for example. trials with IPS also have a bearing on young people under 30 years of age. Then the representative, or the party of the representative, and I disagree. I believe that going to the elections is not a good way to get more people back into education or work for the youngest – this is a 50 000–60 000 kroner.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3487	I thank you for your answer. I record that we may have a slightly different view of some things. The National Audit Office has just published a report on the appeal proceedings in Nav and the Social Security Court and stated that the long waiting period is serious and critical. Does the Council of State see that there can be a link between the contractions in the health-related benefits in Nav and the amount of complaints simply because people are to a greater extent thrown out of public health and into social assistance or private care without work being a real alternative here and then, that is, simply because people have not pulled out of the investigation and treatment in the healthcare system and have not been completed into work or social security in Nav?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3494	Experience has shown that the conversion of benefits may lead to several complaints. That's absolutely right. This may also have happened in the conversion of e.g. work clearance, but I do not believe that that in itself is a good argument to continue with a system that did not work because it did not explain people either to disability or to working life. It is possible that ‘smart’ may appear to spread the effort thinly over several years, but it is not, because it leads to a longer-term reduction in the number of responses, at least if the changes work properly. So the complaint system in Nav obviously needs a full review. It is also apparent from the fact that while Nav itself has strengthened its complaint handling with about 50 annual works through internal redundancies and the Social Security Court has received more money, it is still such that the complaint handling is not effective and good enough. It has not been reviewed since the 1960s once, when people's fear was established. It's time, and we'll do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3502	Thanks for the answer. The Council of State says that the complaint procedure has not been good enough, and that one should carry out a review. At the same time, he said that there has been more money available inside Nav to handle complaints, and the same in the Social Security Court. But there has now been so-called ABE cut over a long period of time, and the increases mentioned by the Council of State are probably not enough to defuse years of continuous cuts in administrative resources. Does the Council of State consider that there may be a link between increased processing times in complaints and the annual administrative cheese relations both in the Nav and the Social Security Court?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3509	No, no, no. And there's two reasons for that. One is, as I say, that the complaint part of Nav has been strengthened, has received more resources, both once specifically through an allocation where it was stated in the letter of assignment that it was for complaint handling, and also extra through Nav's own repriorities. The second is that it has also happened in the Social Security Court. It's okay to discuss the ABE cut, but there's some striking pages when you discuss it. First of all, it means ‘a little less’, as Stoltenberg in its time formulated a different policy, i.e. a little less because in the public sector too it is expected that you can get a little bit better every year. The second thing is that this money won't be gone. They are assigned to other projects in the organisation, e.g., or other areas that are important. This means that Nav has more employees today than they had when this government joined.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3516	Let me just say first and foremost that I am fully committed to the assessments made by the Council of State to the benefit of digital services, and in addition to that, of course, he could have added that by increasing the use of digitalisation, one of the most decentralised services we can actually provide, by reaching public offices within and outside the opening hours, home from its own sofa hook. It is effective for most people. But back to permanent work: the Council of State today announces new places in the revised national budget and at the same time gives a pledge of 3000 new places during the next enlargement period if the government party wins multiples after the fall of the autumn. That's a goal we're supporting. But what time will the Council of State, on the basis of this, come back to Stortinget with a stepping-up plan, as we are adopting today?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3523	Just one correction first: what the government parties have said today – where I was present as a representative of a government party – was that we will continue to escalate in the next period at least at the same level as we have had in these two previous periods. It turns out – and some of us were already aware of this – that although the government parties, and the Progress Party, have not called this a stepping-up plan, we have stepped up the number of VTA sites systematically over these eight years. And why? Well, because we are not satisfied with just adopting the word ‘stampling plan’ in a document, we have prioritised money for this in terms of budgets and in revised budgets. That means that during these eight years, with a civil majority on the Stortinget, almost 3,000 more seats have arrived. It was a change of pace when a new majority came in Norway after the 2013 elections. When's more coming? Then I must almost say as TV 2: Wait and see!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3530	That was a good answer – to everything other than the question. For what is never such a small paradox is that today the Council of State can be so clear when he talks to the Newspaper about the level of ambition for stepping up the number of VTA places, while he cannot be as clear in Stortinget. So that's what we have to ask ourselves: what is it that does it this way? I totally agree that we have a lot to look back at in common when it comes to stepping up permanent job creation, and it's a work that needs to continue. But it's strange when you can tell one thing to the newspaper about your own ambitions, but you can't confirm it in Stortinget. So the question is again: can we at least take too good a fish that they speak with which the newspaper today operates, is numbers that would be natural that we see from a bourgeois government the coming four years?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3538	I'll take the formal answer in the end. So I'm going to say first that you can both take too good fish and assume that when I say different things that have to do with my constitutional responsibility, even when I do it as a party politician or whatever it should be, then it's the same thing I mean anyway. But for various reasons, it's like voting for an escalating plan, when the government parties believe that we're already stepping up, it doesn't feel natural. It's not a big, huge problem. – But it’s possible we actually vote for it – yes, sorry, then it feels natural to do it. But that is not our initial proposal. Still, it's important to keep in mind that even though you're always the same person, whether you're in or outside the storeroom, information to the Stortinget always comes in correct and correct ways. So how the government responds to this, I can guarantee that I will not get through a look-up in the newspaper.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3545	In the Council's response of 6 April to the proposal of the Central Party to have the Nav Office open at least in line with the City Halls, the Council of State states that it is the local authority and the labour and welfare seat of the County Office which, in dialogue with the Nav Manager, determines what should be the opening hours of the individual Nav Office on the basis of local conditions and needs. My question is: If the City Council decides to open the Nav office, will the State Council then give the County Office of the State Nav notice to keep it open, similarly?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3552	I was captivated by one of the proposals in another representative proposal that we are now also discussing, namely this from the Workers' Party, that the letter of assignment to Nav should be reviewed with a view to reducing the number of targets and avoiding detailed management of activities, and that is my starting point here as well. It is easy to say that we want responsibility in organisations, that we want politicians not to sit down and rule the details, and not to do so by the ministry. It's a little bit harder to do. This means that my expectations for Nav and opening hours relate to the delivery of services, and that means that there is a clear expectation that they will be available also to users who do not have digital tools, for example, even if the Nav office has limited opening time. But instructing Nav on how to deal with a municipal government decision in a partnership, I don't think that's relevant.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3557	At the end of my post, I mentioned a single matter that I received in the last week. I'll read that e-mail. He writes: I have a wish that something will be done about the process in Nav regarding the AAP. I've been 60 pst. have been sick for more than one year and have therefore had to apply for the AAP. This is okay, and such a system is very good. What I am not satisfied with is that I have to send a report card as a jobseeker. I'm still 40 pst. at work and for health reasons is not looking for work the remaining 60 pst. Had I been able to work more, I would have increased the employment rate in the job I already have. I feel almost like a Nav swindler for this reason, and that's not good. What will the State Council say about this system?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3567	I would like to give an even more detailed answer to the question through a written question, but of course I cannot go into specific individual matters by name. I just want to say that registration cards are something that everyone has to submit, and the purpose of registration cards is not to show that you are not sick, or are not unemployed, or anything else. The purpose of registration cards is, inter alia, to: to give you a way to report whether you should work more than what you have in your performance, so that you, for example: then shortens the performance. It is important to stress – for others who might have to hear this – that registration cards are simply too simple in a proper and, hopefully, predictable way to register, for example: if you have worked more for a period of time, or if you have worked for another employer for a period of time, or if you are also a beneficiary of a daily allowance, and if you have a different type of activity to report.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3574	The cord shift is over. Those who speak the following shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3581	The two things we're discussing now have been very instructive for me. What I thought was reasonably obvious is far from obvious. When the Council of State answers my question about what the State Nav will do if the local council asks the Nav offices to be open, the Council of State says he will not instruct Nav. Together with the comments in the case and the response letter from the state, I understand every time the depth of the problem we are facing. There will be a need for a debate in the future. The Council of State says more in its reply letter of 6 April about the proposal of the Central Party. He says, ‘As the proposers point out, it is inter alia: Section 4 of the Social Services Act called for the proper functioning of services provided under the Social Services Act. This requires how the municipality and the establishment ensure the availability of the services. [[...]] In its dialogue with the county offices, the Directorate for Labour and Welfare has stressed that opening hours at the NAV offices must provide users with the need for drop-in visits and physical availability of services in the offices.» – ‘... must take care of the users’, i.e. In addition, it says: ‘The directorate has also clarified in dialogue with the state administrators that limited opening hours, such as non-daily opening hours or very short opening hours, need to be justified on grounds of soundness and need.’; Despite these fine things, the fact is that many, many offices are completely closed. On average, offices are all over the country in municipalities and urban areas up to four hours a week. I have to say that I have not been able to see Section 4 of the Social Services Act so well before, but now I am beginning to know it. It says something about soundness. The Council of State says a priority. Yes, priority is given to not prioritizing the weakest among us. There are very many who believe that Section 4 of the Social Services Act on Sound Services is not being respected. It must be a popular opinion. There must be a commitment to local government. There has to be debate, so that we get that case out and get to change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3608	I'm not going to run out of time, because it's getting pretty late. I just felt the need to make a comment on the Council's description of the appeal proceedings in Nav, which has been given so much resources – and so does the Social Security Court. It is a completely different reality than the Riksrevision describes in its report, where they use expressions such as ‘serious’ and ‘critical’. If the sum of resources has increased, it is likely that the resources used per case are the main objective and that there is the right competence. It says the Riksrevision that it does not do, that it is in particular the health-related benefits and complaints matters relating to health-related benefits, it goes beyond, and that the worst is about occupational injury, which is the matter we are going to have to deal with immediately afterwards. Then I would like to make a little comment on the first post of the representative, Lundtegen, because I did not fully understand Lundtegen's claim that the Workers' Party does not want to open the Nav office. With regard to the proposal the centre party promoted about opening hours at least equivalent to the town hall, we sent a question to the council if there was an overview of what opening hours the town halls actually have around, because we did not feel quite sure that all the country's town halls were as open and accessible as they should be, either. When we were then informed that it was not possible to provide an overview of it, we chose to present a proposal that we believe is better and which we promote together with SV: ‘The government asks the Government to ensure that all its Nav Office has a daily opening time that ensures users who cannot or are not comfortable to use digital and self-service solutions, a Nav office that is available, so that equivalent services can be provided to all across the country.’ Geography, communications and distances around are also different, so here there may be a need for quite extensive opening times somewhere and perhaps a little less elsewhere, but the starting point of the Workers' Party is that the Nav office should be open.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3620	First, a few comments about the complaint and appeal system. Now we want to answer in detail, of course, when the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee deals with this, but it is absolutely right that the appeal and appeal proceedings are strongly criticised by the Riksrevision. They use the second most serious term, the critique, about this. It's very serious. There's no doubt about it. My point, and I think that is reflected in the Riksrevision report, is that the Riksrevision does not, as I understand it, say that this is just a resource issue. They also point out that there are some systems that work badly together, for example. there is a poor link between the different parts of the chain, i.e. Nav's complaint authorities and the Social Security Court. So I pointed out, just because the representative of Christoffersen's point seems to be that here it was almost a direct link between the ABE-cut and the Nav complaint procedure, that Nav has both received through a budget specific funds from the government, or the Stortinget, which grants this, and also re-prioritized its own resources for this, and that the Social Security Court has also been given increased resources, precisely because of this issue. But that's not enough. To the representative Lundtägen, as I see it in his contribution, says something about the way into this situation. Firstly, I am pretty sure that four hours of opening time on average per week at the Nav offices in Norway is not correct. Secondly, in the Korona situation, there have been situations where I am absolutely sure that the Nav offices have been shut down too quickly, or that the municipalities have said that now everyone in the municipal administration is shut down, and that there have been unfortunate consequences in an extreme situation. Thirdly, the representative himself also points out that this is not a lawless country, but there is a difference between it and saying that you have a partnership between municipalities and Nav. The fact that the Council of State is going to go in and instruct Nav every time the City Council makes a decision will be to undermine the whole of the foundation on which the partnership is based. It's important. Finally, the representative states that the services must be sound. Just as attention has been paid to it both by the State Manager and the Department in dialogue with Nav, this is not a problem we take lightly, because there are a lot of people who are totally dependent on Nav. I have been quite unambiguous when I have responded to this, correctly in the media, that Nav must also have offers for those who do not have the ability to use digital services or telephone. It also means having an extra plan to follow up the most vulnerable users. Then I got phone help from a friend, it was pointed out that I had the wrong slogan for TV 2. Of course, I have to get rid of it and complain about Norway's commercial general programming, or what it is now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3633	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3638	There are many plans and strategies, but what is needed is concrete action. The proposal of the Centre Party is that there should be at least as good opening time at the Nav office as at the City Hall. It was concrete to change. If the Workers' Party had something more concrete, they could suggest it, but I noticed the representative Lise Christoffersen who said that the Workers' Party's starting point is that the Nav office should be open – starting point. That's the point. All along there are some such exceptions in reality. Four hours are not right, says the Council of State. This is a thorough investigation from our side. The ministry doesn't know when the offices are open, so the council doesn't know what it's like. One shall not instruct each time a decision is taken by the local authority. The point of the Central Party is that it is the City Council that knows best, and it should be a standing message to the State's Nav Office that they have opening hours similar to the decision of the Municipal Council in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3646	Again: It is important that the Stortinget, parties and individual representatives take the ombudsman role. But since the representative Lundtigen goes so high on the track, other parties may also see some concrete problems related to the proposal of the Senter party. For example, in an infectious situation where the municipal administration, including the town hall, shuts down, what do you do? Another concrete issue, which I am absolutely sure will find good solutions, is that if local government around, which is responsible for very much of the emergency aid part of Nav, really the whole emergency aid, i.e. social assistance and other, starts to adopt and ensure that their Nav office is going to be open longer, even in infectious diseases situations, I am absolutely sure that they will find smooth solutions to it locally. As the representative of Lundtigen's party often says, it is not necessary to make a national decree for it. It's not like Nav's fighting against, and it's not Nav's central that has shut down a number of Nav's offices. To a large extent this is a consequence of the fact that the municipalities themselves have closed down a service offer, thus also the Nav offices. This is completely possible to find good solutions, and Nav and the local authorities can talk together even without a decision. They should, in fact, because we have a partnership.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3653	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 8 and 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3670	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3677	The case concerns representatives from the Workers' Party on the necessary changes to legislation for occupational injury, including the so-called oil pioneers. I would like to address the proposals No. 1-7 in the option. For many years, very many years, efforts have been made to improve the legal and regulatory framework for financial compensation in the event of occupational injury and disease. Occupational injury is personal injury, illness or death caused by an accident at work. In addition, certain diseases caused by harmful effects on the working environment may be treated as occupational injuries. Today, two schemes are in force: the specific rules on occupational injury laid down in Chapter 13 of the Law on Social Security and the occupational indemnity insurance scheme, which are regulated by the Act on Occupational Indemnity Insurance. Together, this shall ensure that workers are entitled to full compensation for occupational injury and disease. Despite broad agreement that today's arrangements contain several weaknesses, the social partners have failed to reach agreement on a new legislative framework. The topic has been addressed in the Occupational Injury Committee, which gave the job vacancy NOU in 2004, Occupational Insurance. The majority of the committee, twelve members, proposed that the two occupational injury schemes be merged into a new law on insurance against accidents at work, while the minority of the sample from LO proposed that the current legislation be maintained, but that workers and insurance companies be legally obliged to comply with the decisions of the social security scheme and the recognition of the right to social security under the Act on Occupational Indemnity Insurance. The red-green government presented its proposal on 20 September 2013 on the Employment Insurance Act. The proposition was the first part of a major reform for the area of occupational injury, and the reform was about to merge the current two schemes into a law on employment insurance. It was supposed to guarantee the right to full compensation. The term ‘professional injury’ was replaced by ‘work injury’. «accident damage» was to be used for damage caused by accidents at work and by the lifting of personnel, while occupational disease was a disease caused by an effect over time. I spend so long on these concepts, because they're an important part of the further word change on the theme, which will also come. The Government of Solberg withdrew the legislative proposal because one would make an overall assessment of the proposals in the proposal and the remaining elements of a new reform and then propose a new reform in the field of occupational injury. This has not yet happened despite the fact that the theme has been used for landfill treatment a number of times later. On this basis, I, as the rapporteur-in-Office, saw it as important to try to make progress in the matter. That's why I focused on getting on two themes. Firstly, ask the government, in consultation with the social partners, to submit a proposal for the necessary simplification of occupational injury rules that are in line with developments in society and in the labour market, which ensure individual workers. Secondly, review and, if necessary, update the occupational disease list. There is a unanimous recommendation in the configuration. Furthermore, it was important to have a Commission set up to work out a compensation scheme for the oil pioneers, which must verify, that is to say, the extent, damage and limitation of what should be covered by the compensation scheme. There must be a wide range of independent experts and stakeholders, including: National Association for Safety and Health at Work, ALF. Since the compensation scheme needs to be clarified, the sample is assumed to be completed by 2022. I am very pleased that a majority in the Committee, the Centre Party, the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the SV, are behind the Commission. In particular, I would like to thank Runar Nilsen and John-Peder Denstad, who, in February 2020, had the Pioneer Oil Workers' Mapping Report drawn up with damaged health – and the meeting with the system, replacements, sensitisers and solvent damage. Furthermore, it is the report of the Swedish Association for Safety and Health at Work of 2014, the Pioneer Oil Workers in the North Sea. Without these reports and the debate, we wouldn't have gotten where we are today. We had not received the advance and the result of the day. It is gratifying that at least we have done something for the oil pioneers, which I hope will get a majority in the Chamber by reconciliation of theirs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3706	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3711	Thanks to the rapporteur for working well on the matter. As he was about: One of the last things that the red-green government did was to present the first part of a reform of the rules for occupational injury, and that was because the time was already overdue. The law had clear weaknesses. But then the matter was withdrawn. It was some of the first Solberg government to do after accession in 2013. The Right Party and the Advance Party, who were then government partners, promised that the government would come back with a new proposal, but it has not been followed up so far. It is therefore positive that the government parties are now opening up a review of the code of professional injury. What is the result of that, we do not know yet, but the Workers' Party is in a hurry because the matter is very important to them. We are talking about people who are injured at work, or who develop occupational disease, who have legal claims for benefits from social security and compensation from insurance companies, but who in far too many cases do not get what they are entitled to under the law. The regulatory framework is difficult to obtain. Those who are injured at work or who suffer occupational diseases as a result of the stress they have suffered experience too often that they are not believed. In addition, some experience being able to take part in the part for which the Employment and Welfare Act is responsible, but not to reach out in their insurance case, and others may experience the opposite. This leads to heavy additional loads for the individual who is sick or injured. There are also major gender differences in the practice of legislation. More men than women get compensation. This is partly due to the fact that the list of occupational diseases has not been up-to-date for decades. Typical women’s disorders due to heavy care loads are not included. However, Fafo has also shown that even when it comes to men and women with the same education and profession, more men than women are awarded compensation for occupational injury. It is unsustainable and discriminatory, and the question may well be raised if such systematic differences between men and women are in fact contrary to the law on equality and the prohibition of discrimination. In the preparation of the proposal, the Labour Party has received input from the LO lawyers, who have a good overview of the field of occupational injury. They indicate that it is often difficult for individuals to provide evidence that injury or disease is caused by accidents or stress at work. That is why, after recording from them, we have proposed that the burden of proof in occupational injuries should be reversed, so that the individual worker is stronger. The insurance industry has warned against this and has shown that it can lead to increased costs, possibly higher contributions for employers or that companies no longer wish to offer professional indemnity insurance. There is some kind of argument that the Workers' Party does not agree with. The whole point must be that we do what we can to make sure that whoever has a legal right actually gets it, and then it also follows that the cost will increase. However, it can also lead to a positive effect by making it all the more important for employers and insurance companies that preventive HMS work is actually carried out in the individual workplace. However, we do not get a majority in favour of this, and we regret that. It is positive that the oil pioneers are finally seen and heard. At the same time, we must not forget that today's oil workers are also under stress that can cause health damage, and that is also true of many other professions. One example is those who work in fire and rescue services. What is important is that, once the damage has been done, each employee actually receives the legal compensation they are entitled to. A lot of people don't get it. This also applies to those affected by the Alpha bankruptcy in Denmark. There is talk of sick and injured persons who have even received approval for occupational injury, but feel that they are not covered by the guarantee scheme even if it is required by law, and that is fundamentally unfair. That gap in the legislation must be closed, but we do not get the majority here either. The Labour Inspectorate has shown that foreign workers are particularly vulnerable, but they are sent back to their home country to a significant extent without any form of occupational injury compensation. It is illegal, but regulators and police lack resources to bring this obscurity to life. We therefore regret that we do not get a majority to correct this injustice.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3728	Norwegian working life is safe and well regulated, and the systems for financial compensation for occupational injuries and diseases are good and must be good. However, there may be grounds for revision of legislation and the current system of occupational injury in order to ensure that these are up-to-date and meet the challenges of working life. Despite the broad consensus that today's arrangements contain several weaknesses, the parties have failed to reach an agreement on the instruments that could solve this. This disagreement emerged clearly in the hearing on 31 January 2019 in connection with the examination of the draft representative on improvements to the Code of Professional Compensation, Document 8:53 S for 2018-2019. None of the respondents agreed to support the specific proposals in the case and all the participants at the hearing had their own proposals for adjustments or alternative proposals. However, the right-wing party considers that the system of occupational injury, as it exists, does not take sufficient account of the current working and health situation of Norwegian workers. The picture of today’s work, with physical and mental stress and stress, is not adequately addressed by the existing legislation. Nor has the list of diseases to be recognised and equivalent to occupational injury been revised for many years. That is why we support the proposal that, in consultation with the social partners, the government should present a proposal for the necessary simplification of the occupational injury rules – which are in line with developments in society and in the labour market, and which ensure the individual worker. We also ask the government to review and, if necessary, update the occupational disease list. Oil workers with serious health problems and diseases demanded follow-up from employers and authorities at the beginning of the 2000s. The case was dealt with in detail in two major messages, in 2006 and 2011. Extensive investigation and development work was started to identify the extent of the problem and to facilitate the follow-up of oil workers who suspected that they had become ill due to the job. It was precisely in order to obtain a better basis for assessing whether the disease and plague of oil workers were due to the work and therefore whether they should be authorised for occupational injury and, where appropriate, claim compensation under the occupational indemnity insurance scheme. It was also important to provide a basis for new and improved knowledge to prevent health damage to chemical use in the oil industry in the future. The Cancer Register launched a study on cancer among Norwegian offshore workers in 1998 and a continuation of this study is now under way with the support of the Norwegian Research Council. Several separate reports on the results of the investigations of former offshore workers have also been prepared and these do not differ significantly from those of patients from other professions or industries. There is no doubt that several former oil workers have experienced stress in the work that may have affected their health. Many have also been compensated for the damage caused to the people’s rights, and the problem has been taken seriously over several years. There have been important and thorough reviews and it has been followed up for many years by the industry, the authorities and the established health and welfare system. What the other batches are now doing is to establish without reservation that oil workers are to be compensated, regardless of these reports. Many of the same problems with harmful influences may also apply to other professions, but here the others choose to address a group. Right wanted the government, pending an up-to-date code of professional injury, to assess whether there was a need for a special regime for the oil pioneers in line with that previously implemented for the North Sea divers and the veterans in foreign service. We believe that this is more right than pre-conclusion on a compensation mechanism on which the parties concerned should be given the right to control. With this, I address the proposal we are part of, which is also the proposal we will be voting for.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3749	The representative Margret Hagerup has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3754	The thing we're discussing today is actually a little bit two-part. First, this is really a debate that is a bit repetitive in this room, because the law we have must always be adapted to the time we live in, and the society we actually have. I, the undersigned, have stood on this platform once and stressed the importance of having an up-to-date law — a work environment law, a pension system, etc. – according to the society we actually have. For society, there is a change — whether there is labour crime, new ways of working, new forms of family and work emerging. Society and the labour market are changing, and the law must also be up-to-date. That is why I am pleased that we are now adopting a review of the rules on occupational injury, ensuring that they are updated, and that the list of occupational diseases is also being reviewed, so that it is simply up to two dates. It should have been done a long time ago, but the most important thing is that we now get it in place. But then over to the thing that I think is the absolutely most important Biggest is discussing today, both because it affects many individuals, and because it's about how we as societies are dealing with those who have given us so infinitely much. Norway has had an unparalleled oil adventure. It has made sure that many people have had a job to do. It has created enormous values, which, not least we in this room should appreciate enormously, that have enabled us to build a good welfare society. But this has not come for free. Some people have taken a significant risk since the late 1960s and early 1970s. I myself was so lucky to be the case rapporteur when the Advance Party got the North Sea Diving case out, which has many parallels to the matter we are discussing today. Fortunately, then, we finally managed to bring together the Storting for a unanimous decision on a worthy compensation scheme and a formal apology, and not least make sure that we ended the dark chapter in Norwegian political history. But there are several oil workers, the oil pioneers. Especially ALF has fought a hard fight. Runar Nilsen, John-Peder Denstad, Jan Terje Biktjørn and others have fought this case, but unfortunately for deaf ears for a long time. The matter began again when my good colleague Gisle Saudland raised the matter in an interpellation debate here in Stortinget earlier this year, and then we have this matter that we are dealing with today, where we have now fortunately got a majority in place. I would like to thank both the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Swedish Labour Party for having managed together to reach an agreement to put this Commission down, which will then ensure a propriety for those who have sacrificed so much. Today, when we are going to discuss this matter, we can read on the NRK's website about Tor Sundsdal from Arendal, who was unemployed at 53 years of age, and who can hardly go after 25 years of work in Ekofisk. What is the reaction from the Right? Well, it's unfortunate that the population here is cleaning up. That it's unfortunate! What's unfortunate is that people have been hurt without us as a society actually taking good care of them, that it's been so long that unfortunately many have fallen away. But the oil pioneers are in a special position, and I am therefore glad that we are now going to put this Commission down, to ensure that you get decent compensation, and once and for all get cleaned up in this temple in Norwegian oil history.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3765	The Christian People's Party has agreed that there are two sets of legislation that regulates occupational injury. There have been long attempts to coordinate the legislation. Despite the broad agreement that today's system is not optimal, the parties have not been closed to negotiate a new solution. The use of resources between the social partners is high, both in relation to the right to compensation, organisation and funding. The Christian People's Party thinks it's time to revise the occupational disease list, so that she represents today's working life. The damage picture has changed with regard to what is relevant, both in terms of physical and mental stress. It is therefore important that the list of diseases approved is updated to the present working life, for both women and men. Today, North Sea divers and veterans from the foreign services have separate compensation arrangements. Although one should be careful about raising individual groups at risk of eliminating others, it is important to consider the need for a special arrangement for the oil pioneers. Many have been damaged by delayed exposure from chemicals, oil vapours and others. Health, the environment and security have developed a lot over the last 30 years and have been a trade with a high status in the enterprises. Often, HMS is the first case to be reported in the board meeting. It wasn't like that before, for a lack of knowledge to fully understand how important it was with knowledge of prevention. Before some subject areas, there was a high risk of injury, and workers were injured and ill. We have this experience in retrospect. The Christian People's Party believes it's important to consider whether this group will get a special arrangement. The important work done to get Norway's oil wealth has not come for free. Some of the people who have been on to do this have been destroyed by their health at work. Many argue that this group should be given a system of compensation before the general legislation before occupational injury is in place. The proposal to reverse the burden of proof to give the insurer responsibility would be unfortunate, as we see in the Christian People's Party. It is a general claim in contract law that the person pretending to have a claim must also prove that the claim exists. Turning the burden of proof of professional injury would be contrary to a general legal principle and would not be practicable. The Christian People's Party supports a holistic reform in the field of occupational injury. In the meantime, the list of diseases should be updated and the status of the oil pioneers reviewed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3782	Proposal 1 of the draft representative deals with simplifications of current legislation on occupational injury. The financial compensation schemes for occupational injuries and diseases in Norway are generally good. All workers are fully compensated if they suffer occupational injury or disease. But the scheme is not without disadvantages. For this reason, possible ways of simplifying the system and legislation have been worked out for a long time, based on the Professional Injury Committee’s proposal in NOU 2004: 3, Occupational Insurance. We will follow up on the Committee's proposal for a decision, which in a good way also makes the role of the parties visible in the simplification process. I would also like to repeat what I said when it was an interview about occupational injury, that in the case of the occupational damage insurance system, there may be reason to consider it, as is well in the proposal. Proposals 2 and 3 relate to burden of proof issues. There are, among other things: The previous one speaks a little bit about what the principle is today. In line with general legal principles, the victim generally has the burden of proof if there is doubt as to what is most likely. I can't see why there should be completely different rules of evidence in this field than otherwise. At the same time, in the case of occupational diseases, specific rules have been laid down in both laws on the reverse burden of proof for them, on specific grounds. Proposal 4 of the draft representative deals with chemicalally damaged oil workers. It proposes that the majority of the Committee should call on the Government to establish as soon as possible a Commission to develop a compensation scheme for the oil pioneers. We're going to follow the majority decision in an appropriate way, but I think it's okay to point out some important issues. I have said in the past that there is no doubt that former oil workers may have suffered health problems because of the job. Some oil workers also experience that they do not get the follow-up they deserve. The representatives of the Government Parties in the Committee have therefore proposed that, pending an up-to-date code of professional injury, consideration be given to the need for a special regime for the oil pioneers, in line with that previously implemented for the North Sea divers and veterans in the international service. The observer may see that it is a proposal that has been taken directly from the Workers' Party's Document 8. What's the reason for doing it this way? From our side – and from my side – it is simply a matter of having a really good and thorough assessment of a matter. We had an important and good interpellation about this a short time ago. Then there has been a much more concrete proposal than what is contained in the proposal for a document, which has major consequences, and which, of course, also creates legitimate expectations in many other people. Such special schemes have included two more human-dominated professions, the North Sea divers and the veterans in the EEAS, but it may also be that many women-dominated professions and other groups in the Norwegian industry feel improperly treated and have experienced an exposure that we believe today was totally unsustainable. There are major challenges to the majority's proposals that, in my opinion, give reason to do what you normally do in major cases that may have billions of consequences, at least if you don't want to keep any groups too fooled, and that's getting a proper investigation of the proposal before you decide. That's why the government parties vote as they do. With regard to proposal 7 on financial corporate law, the Norwegian non-life insurance guarantee scheme has taken the view that a non-resident insurance undertaking with a head office in the EEA territory which is engaged in cross-border activities into Norway is not a member of the scheme. The Ministry of Finance's assessment is that there may be grounds for looking into the legislation and they have sent an investigative mission to the Financial Supervisory Authority. Before completion of the investigation, the need for legislative changes should not be concluded. Proposal 8 deals, in effect, with the need for non-resident workers to be insured for occupational injury to a greater extent than at present. Additional rules are laid down in the regulations of the law, and I agree to point out that, under more detailed rules, a worker who has been sent to another EEA country to carry out work there may still be covered by the social security regulation of the sending country. As far as proposal 9 is concerned, I agree with the intention that it should be taken care of, and just mention that the floor is strengthened by about 120 million. kr permanently during the period from 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3804	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3809	A commission for the oil pioneers will be adopted today – or tomorrow, because we vote tomorrow – against the votes of the government parties. Now, under today's government, we have seen a little too many examples that the government has failed to follow decisions that the government does not like. This applies to majority decisions, but also, in fact, to unanimous decisions. So I would like the Council of State here and now to assure the Government that he will immediately initiate the decision to set up a commission and draw up a mandate. If so, when can we expect this to be in place, so that the Commission comes to work?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3814	As I said in my post, of course we should follow up on this in an appropriate way. But then I have to admit that I am a little surprised that the Labour Party is precisely choosing to be so critical in this matter. When we had an interpellation debate about this, the representative Christoffersen – quoted freely after memory – said that the Workers' Party ‘will not oppose’ a commission. Then the Workers' Party submitted a Document 8 proposal. There is a proposal, proposal 4, which mentions the oil pioneers. That is the same proposal that the parties to the government are voting for today. It is a perfectly fair matter that the Workers' Party has mentioned something else during this process and forms a different majority, but that one should then be so sharp and polemic critical of the government parties, who voted in favour of the Workers' Party when they made their own proposal a short time ago, it is a little difficult to understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3823	Thanks for the answer. I did not feel quite that I experienced seawork as polar to the government parties in this matter. On the contrary, I think it is positive that the government parties are moving in terms of professional injury legislation, which has been said to work as intended until now. It was at least during the interpellation debate that I first heard the Council of State say that he wanted to contact the Minister of Justice to assess improvements in the legislation in general. I wondered if the Council of State could say anything about what he thinks it is relevant to change. The occupational injury list is clearly subject to review, but what about those who are infected by covid-19 at work and who are not health workers? Would those affected by the Alpha bankruptcy be able to expect assistance from the state? The reverse burden of proof was obviously not a fascination with the Council of State, but will it be investigated? And in the case of non-resident workers, it's a fact that they're sent back on a large scale, so that's not enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3830	Now, of course, I do not have the opportunity to say anything about all the representatives' proposals once more in one minute, but it must be assumed that when the Stortinget votes in favour of another proposal instead of voting for nine concrete proposals from the Labour Party, some of which even gather a majority, it is because the majority does not agree with all the nine concrete proposals. This means, for example: that the reverse burden of proof is not a majority of the Storting asking us to do, and I don't see it as part of this. On the other hand, I see updating the disease list as part of it. I also believe that the case-law of the occupational indemnity insurance scheme may have led to the fact that there is currently a different practice in that scheme than the legislator originally envisaged. It is quite common in a state of law, but this may indicate that there may be reason to look at the scheme and the legislation once more.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3835	I think the Council of State should show a little more respect for the oil pioneers and also for the Storting. It's all right that the Council of State wants you to investigate, evaluate and let time go further, but the majority of the population, as the Council of State actually has to deal with, and as he rightly said he should, now decides that a commission is to be set down. Then I respond to the fact that the Council of State uses words like ‘to keep someone too fooled’. No, Stortinget today adopts a very clear instruction saying that the government is now going to put this commission right away. And the reason why we put this Commission down is that we believe that this is a group of people who are victims of injustice and who deserve proper and proper compensation. But we unfortunately know that many of these have a bad time. We have said that the deadline will be by December 2022, but will the Council of State contribute to this materialisation as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3840	As I have said, I am going to follow up on this in an appropriate way, as I am doing with all the majority decisions on the Storting. But I didn't say that this decision was to keep someone fooled. I said that if you have not – and I have to assume that the majority parties have done – have thought well enough through how to do this, if you have not assessed the consequences, if you have not – the representative Wiborg was out in the media today and said that this would cost well over 1 billion – have thought thoroughly through it and how to get it into your budgets, if you have not carefully considered whether it has precedent effects, and if other groups could also expect the same thing, if others who have worked closely with chemicals in other parts of the Norwegian industry, and who may not be called ‘piers’, because it is industry we have had for many years, will also have legitimate demands on the same thing, yes, then it will be possible to do so. However, it must be expected that the majority who decide on this have thought well and thoroughly through, and so well that you do not need the usual investigation that you often – almost always – have in major matters in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3845	I can reassure the Council of State, as I have also said to the media today, that the Progress Party is willing to give priority to this, and that is also why we are in favour of this proposal which is now being adopted today. It also builds up under what I was in my post, that the Progress Party has a proud story; we were willing to spend money to end the dark chapter around the North Sea divers. It is true that the party of the Council of State was in agreement with the Party of Advancement. And yes, it forms the precedent, and we believe that if there are other groups that are in such a special position as the oil pioneers and the North Sea divers are, if other groups have been subjected to gross injustice, then of course we as society should stand up for them and settle the injustice as far as it can be done. But my question is, what does the Council of State think separates the oil pioneers from the North Sea divers?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3852	Now my interpretation of all the problematic aspects here was not specifically addressed to the Progress Party, because it is quite right, as the representative says, that the Progress Party has previously marked itself, that they were early out with the North Sea divers and also had the Council of State when that matter finally landed – now it is not everyone who is quite satisfied with it either. When we were in government together, we made the arrangement for veterans. But the question really isn't what distinguishes this from the North Sea divers, but what can separate this from others as well. I come from an industrial area, Grenland. I am not going to say now that there are no industrial workers in Grenland who were exposed to, for example, the 1950s and 1960s. chemicals in a completely inappropriate way, compared to what we are now basing on. We know that there are many people with occupational injuries, for example: women who worked in dental care and had a history of dangerous substances and who feel improperly treated. That's the question I'd like to think about more carefully, and that's what government parties say that we have to think a little bit more carefully.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3859	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3864	This is a joyous day, for today, May 10, 2021, the oil pioneers finally get justice. Nearly two months ago, we discussed in this room an interpellation promoted by the Progress Party. It stated: ‘To reduce a Commission to monitor the extent of work-related health damage among pioneer oil workers and to assess any compensation’. We challenged the Council of State and the Stortinge on it, we had a thorough debate, and the answer was clear: there was a majority in the Stortinge to put down such a commission. However, since formally, as I was also involved in the debate then, proposals cannot be made in an inter-pelling debate, and since the government – even after the debate on the subject – did not want to do so itself, it was obvious that there had to be a concrete proposal on that. But this matter began long before both what we are discussing today, and the interpellation debate. It started with what was once young men, in the 1970s, 1980s and 1990s, who contributed to Norway’s wealth, but who were exposed to a cocktail of chemicals that caused damage and sent ashore. Many became ill, and some even died as a result of the damage. I know that very many of the relatives and the survivors have followed the matter closely, and I think many of the people involved themselves did not believe that the Storting would come so far, but we did. For too many years this has been diluted, but it will no longer be. Now the Storting decides to set up a commission that will come to the bottom of this, a commission that is independent, where the damage itself is represented, which will have legitimacy, and which has a deadline to deal with. I have to say that there is something peculiar and genuine rewarding by being involved and making a difference for people who have fought a year-long fight for justice. Of all the things we work on at Stortinget, this is probably – the case of justice for the oil pioneers – the single thing I'm going to remember best from this big period. Finally, I would also like to commend all the parties for the fact that there has been a movement in the matter, and in particular the rapporteur, the chairman of the committee and the proposers. Here, the Progress Party, the Centre Party, SV and the Workers' Party have come together, and it shows that it is possible to find unusual political constellations when doing what is right in Norway today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3880	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-10.ana.ud203e3895	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
