ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e78	For the sake of infection prevention, the President will propose that the public gallery be closed even during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative, Hanne Dyveke Søttar, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e85	On behalf of Kjell-Børge Freiberg and myself, I am delighted to promote a proposal for a representative to help Nordland Art and Film University and NTNU receive the necessary assistance during a transitional period.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e90	The representative, Sivert Bjørnstad, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e95	On behalf of the big business representatives Roy Steffensen, Hans Andreas Limi, Tor André Johnsen, Bengt Rune Strifeldt and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal to suspend the payment of VAT when the claims are disputed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e100	The representative, Jon Engen-Helgheim, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e105	On behalf of the representative Siv Jensen and myself, I would like to make a proposal on a sustainable policy for the granting of new citizenship.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e110	The representative, Mr Pollestad, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e115	On behalf of Nils T. Bjørke, Heidi Greni, Ole André Myhrvold and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal to improve food conservation by setting a new soil protection target.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e121	The representative, Kjersti Toppe, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e126	I would like to make a proposal on behalf of the big business representatives Emilie Enger Mehl, Jan Bøhler, Per Olaf Lundtägen, Geir Adelsten Iversen, Aud Hove and myself for a reform of prevention and treatment in the field of drugs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e131	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox Case No. 1 and 2 will be treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e165	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines will be given with replies from the main speakers of the lots and up to seven lines with replies from members of the government. In addition, those who have to sign up for the speaker list in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e174	The first matter I was the case rapporteur for in Stortinget was a little like technical law in the Finance Committee as well as, among other things. had a chapter on the creation of incubators. It first made me wonder what an incubator was, and, having Googled this, wondering why we would create them. It turned out to be ‘ministerial’ to correct errors. Incubators are sadly also today, and as case rapporteur I regret that, of course, but I am afraid that in this process I have been hurt to confuse both myself and others, and I am going to come back to this. It was relatively obvious that the government was about to present new crisis packages as a result of the pandemic taking on new momentum with mutations over Christmas. Nevertheless — or perhaps just so — a whole 77 requests were made when the Prime Minister made his statement in Stortinget on 18 January. On the same day, the government presented Prop. 72 LS with its proposals for extended measures as regards leave, daily allowance, special scheme for apprentices, compensation for self-employed and freelancers. The government had already promoted many of the proposals in this area, but it became most tidy that the ministry came back with an up-to-date proposition – this time Prop. 75 S – to reply to the majority decisions. In this respect, the government maintained its position mainly to extend most of the arrangements until 1 July, although the majority had already requested their extension until 1 October. This is also pointed out by the majority in their committee's comments. I think that, of course, it is reasonable that the government also recognizes that the government has a responsibility to follow the decision of the Storting, even when we believe that the government's original proposal is better and more supportive. Secondly, the issues that affected the Labour and Social Committee, but were negotiated in the financial committee's crisis package, were moved to our committee. That's why we're so lucky that we're also dealing with some chapters from Prop. 79 S today. Let me start with the consensus: we all agree that we are still in a very difficult situation for the Norwegian economy – affecting entire industries, many jobs and employees. It is a political task to contribute to security in an uncertain time. The majority of the Committee notes that the crisis response must last for as long as the crisis persists. The minority agrees with this. In my view, the disagreement is whether it makes sense to extend the crisis packages to the most pessimistic estimates of when the whole adult population will be fully vaccinated, i.e. 1 October, or adapt and, if necessary, extend, and therefore set the end date earlier. Let me then make sure that we do not create, but rather correct some incubators: the Committee agrees that the temporary compensation for self-employed and freelancers should be extended, but as the law is also temporary, it will lapse on 1 March. This is correct following the adoption of the extension by the Storting but, in the event of an incursion, before it is sanctioned and extended. Since a law that has lapsed cannot be extended, a loose proposal for a similar law with the extension, as the majority of the population wanted, is being promoted today. The government parties will support this, even if our primary policy had expired on 1 July. The next incurrency and explanation of vote applies to loose proposals where the Stortinget asks the government to postpone the employer period II until 1 June 2021. This is promoted by the Right and supported by the Government parties, but there is reason to believe that there is also an overall committee behind this. The last incurrency – or to be quite honest: the mistake – I have done is to forget to promote the government’s proposal that the reduction in working time for the right to daily allowances is reduced from 50 pst. to 40 pst. This makes it possible, among other things: partial leavers can work more if the amount of work increases with their employer, giving more flexibility to both the employer and the employee without losing their right to a daily allowance. This was a temporary scheme until 1 November, which was right to remove then in order to adapt the instruments to the situation, but is good to reintroduce — also temporarily. Mistakes cost, and since we cannot vote in favour of the government's primary proposal that this should expire on 30 June, the government parties will support proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and SV, that this runs until 1 October 2021, and I suspect that this also applies to an overall committee. I come back to our reasons in my own post, but refer here to the setting and take up the proposal Right is part of and supports. In short, the Right considers that interventional measures for the protection of lives should be and be compensated by strong, targeted measures to save jobs and secure workers, but that these must be adapted so that the measures to address a crisis do not become the crisis itself or contribute to its extension. That's what I think the opposition is doing here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e195	The representative of Nordby Lunde has taken up the proposal she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e202	In Trondheim, Malin Stavsøien has been transferred from his previous job. She then chose to look after new work, in line with the invitation from Prime Minister Erna Solberg that unemployed people have to look for other work. She then experienced getting two new jobs, from which she was re-married. Then she was put on waiting time from Nav, despite the fact that she had followed the invitation from the Prime Minister. I also think Heidi Nordby Lunde has been concerned that permitting should not have an intrusive effect, but that people should actually dare to take new chances. That is why, today, we have put forward proposals to end the waiting time for people who have been hit by leaven under the covid-19 pandemic. Why does the Right do not support that proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e209	I am very pleased that the representative Grande is addressing this situation today, and I am very pleased that employees, like Malin, are actually following the call. But I think it's a drive of its own among the employees who do and who try to find new opportunities. It's also the whole meaning of the flexibility and the possibilities of the systems we have. Now it is my understanding that Nav should not have imposed this quarantine, and that there is a clarification from the department – it is possible that this can be resolved later, so if I am wrong, do not put it on the council – and that there is no need for a separate proposal on that. Of course, the right is dependent on the fact that those who are on leave today are seeking new opportunities, and that those who are unemployed also have new opportunities, but it is a pressing labour market, so all credit to Malin for actually doing what she did. I also want to say that under the pandemic we have seen several cases where there are no incentives to apply for other options. I think we should look at that after the pandemic is over, how we can close these holes in the systems.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e220	These are uncertain times for people and for business. I don't think any of us are quite daring to predict what the next week will be, or next month, or the next year, for that matter. We also see that companies may have to close down on very short notice, so that they can open up again, but they don't know if they can be open one day, one week, one month or forever. Our job is to create as much predictability as we can in a very unpredictable time. One challenge that we are getting feedback about is that companies do not necessarily dare to get the employees on leave back to work when possible. If we had reduced the employer's period, we would have reduced the risk for the companies, so we could get more employees back to work faster. Why is it that the Right disagrees with business and disagrees with the proposal of the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e227	One of the things that the Holden Committee pointed out before the summer is that when you reduce working time significantly, you also see a large increase in the number of lay-offs, that it goes up, and that it doesn't necessarily pay off either for business or for individual employees. So I believe that the government has provided strong, targeted measures that have been adapted throughout the pandemic, and that is also one of the reasons why Norway is doing better economically compared to most others. The most important thing we do now is get up the vaccination, down the infection and roll back the measures to start creating more and include more as quickly as possible. That is why I am sorry that the Progress Party today supports extending all the arrangements until 1 October, instead of adapting them to the situation, which I think is doing both business and permitting a bear service. Then I want to remind you, since the representative said that we don't know how things are going to go, that he still owes me a beer, because he said we were going to be pre-vaccinated for Christmas this year, and that hotels and restaurants were going to run as normal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e238	The President will point out that it must be settled afterwards by the representatives!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e243	Employees who have been registered for one year may switch to redundancy benefits. The authorities have a period of three years within which to clarify the person, either for disability benefit or for work, and then it is one year's quarantine. The situation today is that many are not being clarified, and they are not responsible for not being clarified. They thus lose their benefits after three years and come into a very difficult economic situation. The pandemic has reinforced the problems, because the clarification is slower and worse. For this reason, the Centre Party, the Workers' Party and SV have proposed that those who are not prepared for work-related disability benefits should also be entitled to an extension beyond three years. My question is, why can't Right-wing support such a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e254	Thank you for the question. I would like to start with the fact that all the recipients of the redundancy were allowed to extend their benefit period by six months in April 2020. The main reason for this was that progress in many activities and treatments was delayed. The feedback we now receive from Nav is that most AAP recipients are now receiving follow-up and that actions are being implemented. Therefore, no general extension has been proposed for ordinary recipients of the AAP. However, there are a few that have been delayed for various reasons. It may be due to planned interventions, treatment that is at risk, and healthcare professionals that are redispatched, and we are aware of that. The government has said that they are following this situation closely and have good dialogue with Nav, and that they are constantly considering the need for measures that can address this particular situation, but are now seeing that there is no need for a general extension, which is what the parties propose.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e266	With that, the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e271	The short-term and unfair policies of the judiciary have created unnecessary concerns for people and employers. Therefore, it was absolutely necessary that Stortinget took responsibility. The Labour Party took the initiative to bring together opposition parties on the Storting to improve and extend crisis mechanisms. The financial management of the government is insufficient to combat the unemployment. It is unfair in burden-sharing, and it is unpredictable to business. In meeting the pandemic, it is essential that the crisis packages have a social profile. It has been the Workers' Party's priority throughout the crisis. On 19 January, we received an important majority in order to extend the crisis response, precisely because infectious and economic crisis measures must go hand in hand. Among other things, we received: a majority in order to extend the period of leave to 1 October, to extend the increased rate of daily allowances, to extend the maximum period of receipt of daily allowances, to suspend the three-day waiting period for the receipt of daily allowances until 1 October, to extend the system of security of income to self-employed persons and to extend the arrangements for apprentices. These are important measures, important transpositions, which mean something in everyday life to people. So what's the government's reaction to the bulk of the population? The government does not present the changes requested by the Storting, and the government does not follow the will of the Storting. That's what the government extends to in Prop. 75 S, which we are dealing with here today, is legal assistance and assistance to explain the economic consequences. It's mildly said especially. So much resistance did the government have against extending the crisis measures to people that they wouldn't even promote the changes that the Storting asked for. But Stortinget is following up the matter today. The majority has spoken. The crisis measures shall be extended because it is too early to wind up the arrangements on 1 July. We live in a time of great uncertainty. There are local shut-downs, outbreaks of a mutated virus and a large number of unemployed. Then it's a matter of course that we set up. The next few months will be unpredictable, and people will have to be sure that the crisis measures are there and that we are setting up. I Prop. 79 S, the government's putting forward 1 billion. kr for labour-oriented actions and development of competence for the lay-offs and the unemployed. It is a follow-up to a decision that was taken on 19 January against the votes of the Right. 1 billion. Jobs and skills development is an important victory for the Workers' Party because it is about setting up for those affected. Again, the Storting takes responsibility, not the government. When the Workers' Party proposed a reintroduction of the holiday money of the daily allowance, it was called madness by the Right. It is only to register that the Right today itself is promoting suggestions for holiday money. It's obviously not that crazy and ko-ko anymore. The right has to explain what has changed since November, when these words were used. There is an important difference between the proposals of the Workers' Party and the Right. Right will have a temporary introduction. The working party believes that this is equally unfair in 2023. We want a permanent arrangement. The consequences of the pandemic we meet very well together. No one should have to stand alone. For the Workers' Party, this means that the crisis measures must last for as long as the crisis lasts, precisely in order to create security and predictability for people and businesses. We have to be there for each other. Should that change, everything would be so much better that we don't need the crisis response, we'll have to do something about it then. But people need something to deal with, people need security, and that's exactly why I'm glad that the majority of people are taking responsibility again today. With that, I will address the proposals that the Workers' Party is involved in.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e290	The representative Elise Björnebeck-Waaagen then mentioned the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e297	The representative, Bjørnebeck-Waaagen, refers to government policy as short-term and unfair, but this policy has led Norway to appear to have fewer deaths, fewer hospitalisations and to be economically better than other countries. Therefore, there can be a good opportunity to adapt the instruments to the situation rather than to do what the Workers' Party wants, namely to extend them and thus possibly extend the crisis. FHI expects the adult population to be vaccinated during the summer. The extension of the measures until 1 October may therefore help to extend the crisis. Otherwise viable businesses will have to compete with those who survive on support schemes, and we know that long-term long-term long-term leave risks becoming long-term unemployed with spent daily pay during the period they have been on leave for so long. This is to do Norwegian business as a bear service. It's doing the lay-off that doesn't have a safe job at the other end, a bear service. I wonder how in the world the Labour Party can defend it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e304	The most important thing for the Workers' Party here and now is to secure ordinary people and businesses. It's about giving predictability, a predictability that the government didn't want to give, but that the Storting takes responsibility for. If we get there that we don't need the crisis measures, we shouldn't hesitate about them. But there is reason to question who is really doing long-term leave and taking up a child service, because in January there were about 200,000 jobseekers, but only 4,000 who, on their own initiative, took training in the day-care scheme. Had the government seized the opportunity and made sure that several were able to use this time effectively, more would have been better off when the crisis is over. It's actually a bear service.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e309	This week we're dealing with several issues where the focus is on helping those who need it the most. Earlier this week, the Workers' Party voted against the Progress Party's proposal to raise minimum pensions to the poverty line and to ensure a lack of propriety there. Fortunately, however, we in the Progress Party and the Labour Party are also in a position to agree on these areas. We agree that in the current situation, it is right to have holiday pay for those who have been unemployed. Then there's some disagreement about whether you should have it now, for a period under the pandemic, or whether you should have it permanently. But a difference in substance between the proposal the Progress Party has promoted today, which is now ready to have a majority, and the Workers' Party proposes, is that the Workers' Party should add up to a lower holiday rate than the Advance Party does. We believe that it should be the same for everyone, regardless of whether you've gone on a daily allowance or you've got an employee's income. Why does the Labour Party want a lower rate for the unemployed?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e314	It is true that the Workers' Party wants to reintroduce the scheme as it was before 2015, and it involves a rate of 9,5 pst. But there are differences in the essence of our solution and the solution of the Progress Party. We want a permanent introduction, not something that is just going to be in 2021 and 2022. We are going to vote subsidiaryly on the Wiborg proposal together with the Right today, and is it such that it implies an increase in percentage, we believe that there is a fine solution here and now. But this is something that should have lasting effect. We can't afford to leave in 2023 not get the same opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e319	The crisis we face shows the need to strengthen the safety net, i.e. reduce the burden on both workers and employers. The Centre Party and the Workers' Party agree with the proposals to strengthen the safety net of workers. Unfortunately, we do not agree with employers. Today there is a ten-day employer period, with employer period I and then a ten-day self-employment period. For an employer who gets ten employees on leave, if we say it is NOK 2000 per day, it will be a cost of NOK 200000. There is too much money – an excessive burden on the employer after the judgment of the Centre Party. SV and the Central Party propose that the government immediately change the employer's period I from 10 days to 5 days, plus five days with compensation of employees until 1 October 2021, or for the duration of the pandemic. Why can't the Labour Party support that proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e324	I share the concerns of both employees and businesses, and we know that there are many companies and employees who are having trouble now. With major short-term upheavals, it means a lot of expenditure, but the Labour Party has chosen a different approach to this particular challenge. We believe that we need better compensation for the companies. In addition to the general grant scheme, we believe that we need to have a turnover-based grant scheme that is in addition to the general scheme. It's just to catch up with the companies that are the hardest hit by the pandemic. When we do this, we think that it's better in the long term, that it can lead to fewer lay-offs, and that we get faster through the crisis. I have great sympathy for the fact that the Centre Party also proposes a compensation scheme for employees for the last five days. There is a difference between the Progress Party, which in turn proposes to shift the burden on workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e329	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e334	First, a little explanation of vote so that the formalities are taken: I address the proposals behind the Advance Party. Today, the Progress Party will support proposal No. 1) that the reduction in working time for entitlement to daily allowances is reduced from 50 to 40 pst. The Group of the European People's Party also supports proposal No. 8, that the permit was not imposed extended waiting time on the basis that they changed their job while they were on leave under the pandemic. So I'll do something I've never done before. It is a proposal for a completely new law as a loose proposal, but it is on behalf of all parties in the Labour and Social Committee, to which the rapporteur also referred. I would like to thank the rapporteur, the committee and the committee secretary for their good cooperation in a technically demanding matter. Fortunately, everyone has shown the flexibility that the gravity of the matter deserves. The consequences of the pandemic are enormous in many fields — health and economic. Our job is to ensure a good balance between infectious diseases and its consequences in terms of our physical and mental health, the economy of most people and business, and not least society as a whole. In this extraordinary and demanding situation, which is full of unforeseeable, our job is to create as much predictability as possible to mitigate the negative consequences of this pandemic for people most and business. The Progress Party has focused on securing jobs and securing the economy for the most part in several areas. To get to this, we need to talk to people outside this house as well. Therefore, the Progress Party has for a long time had many meetings and close contacts with both employers and employees and received many feedback that results in several of our proposals here today. However, if there is one point that has been addressed in practice at all meetings, it is the challenge of the employer's period. For example, when we're in the unpredictable time we're in now, we're at risk. a restaurant which has authorised its employees and is closed because of the restrictions, facilitates the restrictions and allows the restaurant to open. The restaurant then has a choice: do they dare to open and retrieve the employees back from the leave when they know that in a week or a day there may be a new wave of infection, and the restaurant has to shut down abruptly, and they have to leave employees? If they then have to leave their employees again, they have to pay for 10 days of employment, which means that several companies choose not to return their employees. That is why the Progress Party today proposes to reduce the employer’s period from ten to two days, as we believe it is a targeted measure that reduces the risk to business by bringing back employees, which benefits individuals and not least society as a whole. Many of the measures taken by Stortinget target the business community, and it is good and important to secure jobs. But most people also notice this pandemic on the body and not least on the wallet. A large number of people have been unemployed or on leave. Many were there almost a year ago and have been on leave or unemployed for a long time. They have then lost a significant part of their income as the daily allowance is lower than the income they had. Then there are several people who have come back to work, and that is good and good, but who now in June are at risk of having almost no income. And that's when income not necessarily to travel on vacation, but to pay rent, to pay the electricity bill and to pay the food – absolutely necessary income. In the exceptional situation, the Progress Party proposes that we introduce holiday pay for daily benefits earned in 2020 and 2021. Unlike the red-green side, which wants a low rate, we believe that those who have been unemployed and really taken a heavy financial burden should get the same holiday allowance as the rest of society. That is why I am pleased that this proposal seems to be adopted today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e356	The representative of Erlend Wiborg has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e363	The government parties see that all the arrangements are now being extended until 1 October and fear that this will contribute to the expansion and extension of the crisis. At the same time, we see that otherwise viable enterprises now have to compete with companies that survive on support schemes or because they have left off without having to pay the employer period we want to impose them. I believe this is to do the long-term leavers a service, and they are at risk of long-term unemployment. My question to the representative Wiborg is: How does it really feel to be used as a breakbone for the red-greens to both jog up benefits and schemes that didn't even get SV in government and now extend them to after the election? That's question No. 1st@item: inlistbox Question no. 2: By extending them after October, how does the representative view the possibility of rolling back the measures after the elections?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e372	The Progress Party and the Right obviously have a slightly different view of politics. Our view is to simplify and improve everyday life for most people and make sure that we have a business that has the most predictability possible. To that end, we are promoting the proposals that we believe are reasonable and correct. We in the Progress Party care little about whether there are some parties on the left that guarantee the majority of our proposals, or whether there are some parties on the right that guarantee the majority of our proposals. The purpose of people most is much more important than much of the political game. I believe the right here underestimates the value of predictability for business. It's not like business is going to leave for fun. Many suggest that it will be unpredictable for a long time in the future as well, and then it is important and good that business has the predictability by now extending the arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e381	Up to March 2020, there was an employer’s period of 15 days, for which the employer paid wages and salaries. Then we got the first crisis package, where it was reduced to two days paid by the employer, and with 18 days compensation from the government. It lasted until 1 January. Then the government and the Advance Party went in to have a ten-day employer's period again. Now we're talking about what's going to apply in the future. The Progress Party proposes to go from 10 days to 2 days. It is beneficial for the employer, but it is very unfavourable for the employee. Thus, the employee loses large amounts. How, then, can the Progress Party turn costs over to those levels of workers?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e390	Here I think the representative of Lundteg must have really misunderstood. The reason why we are promoting this proposal, and which I also explained in my main post, is that we want employees to be able to move from perm and back to work faster. When you have a permit and you live on a daily allowance, it's a lower rate than your salary. We believe with our proposal that we can get employees back to work more quickly and thus that they can get their full salary back. It's a good thing for every employee, and not least it's a good thing for the whole community that we can get the wheels going faster. Unfortunately, the Center Party here chooses to close its eyes to the unique feedback you get if you actually move outside this house and talk to people most and business.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e397	The border agents, i.e. those who work in Norway but who live on the other side of the border, have not been able to travel to work after the border link. This is a group that falls between all the chairs, and is standing without income insurance because they are permite or ill, but they still have no chance of going to work. SV has proposed a solution to ensure that these limit commuters are taken care of. Why does the Progress Party not support this proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e404	There is a complicated problem with the representative Lerbrekk, and there is a lot of work to try to look at what solutions can work. The reason why the Progress Party is opposed to that proposal by the Socialist Left and Left is that we believe it to be a bad proposal. This would mean that Norwegian taxpayers would have to be involved in paying money to many Eastern Europeans, for example. We believe that in the current crisis, the main focus must be on Norwegian workers living and working in Norway. That's the first priority. Then I fully agree – I come from a border state myself. Nothing would have pleased me more than if you could find a solution for those who live just across the border and work and commute back and forth, but the suggestion you're making here is bad, because it hits way too wide. One then meets groups we believe Norwegian taxpayers do not have a responsibility for.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e413	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e418	First, I'd like to address the proposal of the Center Party. What's the Central Party line here is to give people greater security under the pandemic. This applies to workers, maritime operators and managers. We follow up on the Storting decision of 19 January 2021, which leads to the defeat of the government in eight Roman numerous proposals, because the opposition plus the Advance Party has merged. What are the questions now: how long are the measures to last and how extensive are we going to have? The Prime Minister has outlined three different scenarios for how long the pandemic will last, and in a nutshell at best there is a improvement late in the fall. That is why we have a general view that it should last until 1 October, or as long as the pandemic lasts. I want to take a very strong distance from what Mr. Heidi Nordby Lunde said, that our safety net proposals are shifting and prolonging the crisis. It's far from what's the situation, and the opinion from Nordby Lunde shows a completely different sense of reality about how we're going to help work and business. The centre party is most concerned that we should have general schemes that are targeted, without too many applications. There is a very complex regulatory framework, not least for employers here, and we try to have general targeted instruments, so that you do not have to look at any eventualities. There are many suggestions in this case, and it is important to be as precise as possible when I only have 5 minutes to present the positions of the proposals. It is therefore a majority – the Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Centre Party and SV – that will suspend the waiting time of three days to receive the daily allowance. There is a majority to extend the period of leave to 1 October 2021 and to extend the increase in daily allowance, 80 pst. on the basis of daily allowances up to the first 3G, until 1 October 2021. We are going in to extend the maximum daily allowance period to 1 October 2021 also for those cases that went beyond the maximum period from 1 November in 2020. We are renewing the pension scheme for apprentices – very important. We extend the scheme of lower income conditions to receive daily allowances, 0.75G, until 1 October, and those who received daily allowances before 20 March 2020 are increased from 1 February 2021 in respect of daily allowances by 80 pst. up to 3G. The Working Party, the Centre Party and SV enter in order to reduce the requirement for lost working time in order to receive daily pay during the period of leave to 40 pst. until 1 October. We're increasing the rate to 70 pst. in the scheme for seafarers and freelancers, and we are in favour of extending immediately the period of receipt of redundancy payments as a job seeker for the duration of the crisis until 1 October. Those who have not been declared unfit for work must also be entitled to an extension beyond three years. Recipients of redundancy benefits must be allowed a period of three years to be extended in the event of a lack of clarification of their ability to work. We reintroduce the holiday allowance supplement on daily allowances with effect from 1 January 2020, so that the daily allowance earned in 2020 gives you the right to a holiday supplement in 2021, as the rules were before 2015 – I underline: how the rules were before 2015. We implement the necessary regulatory changes to ensure people who have lost their daily allowance or AAP as jobseekers in the period after 30 October 2020, based among others. the maximum reception period exceeded. Permits shall not be added to the extended waiting time for daily allowances when they are cancelled in the job, taking up a job, and then being re-married/cancelled – again as the Workers' Party presented the proposal in a good way. Furthermore, border commuters shall not be harmed. Border commuters who commute daily from Sweden to Norway/Norway-Sweden, or equivalent to Finland, shall not be in the trap they are currently in. Finally, I would like to say that we should also provide improvements for employers, and that is why we are in favour of an immediate change in the employer's period of 1 from 10 days to 5 days plus five days of compensation of employees. Finally, in case of an error, the centre party is in with SV on proposal No. 15, to expand 80 pst. on a daily basis up to 4G. That's wrong. We're still on 80 pst. to 3G.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e446	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e453	I am sure that the representative, Mr Lundtigen, agrees that we must ensure that taxpayers' money is spent in the most reasonable way possible, and that it is those who need the most help who actually get it. For many years, the Progress Party has worked hard towards, for example: social security exports, as our basic view is that Norwegian welfare goods should mainly go to Norwegian citizens and others who live and work in Norway. Today, the Centre Party is on a proposal that says Norwegian taxpayers should pay financial compensation to people living in, for example. Poland, Lithuania and Latvia. Why does the representative Lundtigen think that it makes sense for Norwegian taxpayers to finance citizens around the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e461	It is clear from the EEA Agreement what obligations we have here, and as far as I know, the Progress Party is an economic liberalist party that wants market forces to have the greatest possible freedom. That is why there is an uncontrolled movement of labour across borders, as the Progress Party wishes, and then a seagoing implementation of the benefits to which a person has obligations under the agreement. So here's the Progress Party sitting right where they're going to sit, because they've accepted the rules. This is the problem of the Progress Party, not the problem of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e466	The representative of Lundteigen is directly mistaken here. There is nothing in the EEA Agreement that now obliges Norway to pay financial compensation to people living in Spain, Poland, Lithuania, Latvia, etc. Nothing in the EEA Agreement obliges us to provide the financial compensation, but if the proposal of the representative Lundtigen and the Senterpartie today is adopted, then Norwegian taxpayers will have to finance it. We know that a few days ago, the representative elected Lundtigen to vote against the Progress Party and the SV's proposal to raise the minimum pensioners to the poverty line. So we couldn't afford it, but using Norwegian tax money for other European workers is the Central Party willing to do it. I have to say that it's strange, and I wonder if this is a switch from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e471	I would say that the representative of Wiborg is particularly unpresisive to be the Progress Party representative here in the Chamber, and I don't think that's anything special about that. I don't like it at all, because claims are made that are so unprecise and false that I think most people notice that. The centre party does not support having minimum pensions up to the EU60. We have documented and told you that, because there is a completely different safety net in Norway from what is abroad. But the benefits we're talking about now, day-to-day pay, are linked to the employment of these foreign nationals and residents in Norway, and that's what's to be covered, because they're doing a job in the labour market in Norway. It's the Center Party for.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e478	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e483	I want to start by addressing the suggestions that SV is behind. I will mention some of the proposals that are particularly important, but first to it superior. Many have been permissive all over the world since the pandemic started last year. In addition, there are those who have been laid off, and everyone else who has been put on the road. Most unemployed and out of work come from low-skilled jobs. They include hotel and restaurant workers, shop workers, cultural workers, weights, etc. The pandemic is a disparate crisis in how ordinary workers, children, young people and those who otherwise are at the bottom of the table pay the highest price. When so many have lived on so little for so long, it becomes very difficult to get the ends to meet. Now we see that the number of debt collection notifications path, and the power prices are sky high. Lots of trouble paying their bills. It is high time that unemployed and out of work get more living. Living on a small part of an already low salary is tough, and the longer it goes, the tougher it gets. SV got a pass to allow the unemployed to keep a little more of their income than in the usual leave of negotiation last year. I'm very happy about that. We now see how necessary it was to strengthen the social profile of daily money. It can be done even better. We can strengthen the social profile more now, thus saving more private economies through the crisis. So SV now challenges the other parties to join us in giving the unemployed a little more time to live off today, and the vote to keep 80 psts for the unemployed and the out-of-work. of income up to 4G, not 3G, as today – i.e. proposal No. 15 in the setting. With this proposal, people will get approx. NOK 1,500 more a month. This is a very important contribution to the unemployed now. Another proposal, which we make together with the Labour Party and the Centre Party, is to ask the government to indicate that the Occupational Injury Regulation 220 §1 H(2) applies equally to all occupational groups defined as having a socially critical function and which are sometimes exposed to infection at work. Today, this regulation applies much less than the number that every day is exposed to infection at work. Here I would like to mention in particular cleaners and add to the store. These everyday heroes have much greater gratitude for their efforts than they are now. The least we can do now is make sure that the occupational injury code also applies to them, in case of infection at work. The last proposal I would particularly like to highlight is this: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that frontier commuters who are now unable to enter the country to work because of closed borders are subject to arrangements that ensure financial compensation.’ It's about people who, because of off-line borders, are now standing without a permit and without any possibility of working. Teachers are among those in this group. I have to ask that the government party do something for why they don't want to be part of this. We have many more suggestions than I have now mentioned, along with the Labour Party and the Center Party, but also alone. Several of these proposals are addressed in other contributions from members of the Committee. Finally, I want to pay attention to the Progress Party, which has decided to give people holiday money this year and next year. I thought it was nice of them, even though we have a better and more durable proposal ourselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e507	The representative Solfrid Lerbreck has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e512	Thanks to the case spokesman for thorough and good work on a large and concise matter that means a lot to many. We will deal with changes in the state budget for 2021 related to financial measures to address the challenges of working life in the context of the pandemic. We are in a demanding situation for the Norwegian economy, which frames many workers, businesses and industries. Throughout the pandemic, the government has had to weigh various concerns, especially between infectious diseases and business. Interventions have been and are still needed to avoid a dramatic increase in infection rates. In fact, the infectiveness situation at any time has had the power of definition when it applies to all measures adopted by the Stortinge in conjunction with covid-19. Since March 2020, there have been many. Over this period, the government has seen the need to secure the citizens of Norway through good information and tailoring measures. Fortunately, Norway is better off than many other countries. The economic downturn is less than one could fear, and the measures against the individual generally seem to work. As large parts of the population are vaccinated, the need for action will diminish. The temporary measures need to adapt to the situation and not contribute to the strengthening of the crisis. The aim is to limit the damage to the greatest extent possible, and all exceptional arrangements should be phased out accordingly in line with the need to mitigate. The government is proposing to extend this period, for example: the system of exemption from pay during the period of leave, the right to a daily allowance for beneficiaries, the new daily allowance period for those who had exercised the right to a daily allowance after 31 October 2020, increases the level of compensation for daily allowances and compensation for self-employed economic operators and freelancers. The government also proposes additional measures to help remedy the difficult labour market situation, including: 1 billion. D to targeted measures for the long-term unemployed and the long-term unemployed, the special scheme for sick pay linked to the pandemic and the continuation of the special scheme for sick pay. The extension is proposed for 1 July. It's because we don't know much about the infection situation and the mass vaccination as far forward as after the summer. Measures must be in line with the need and vaccination work is an important factor in the development of the disease situation. It will be a guess to predict what the world of work will look like in September. We hope the wheels are running until then. The Government therefore proposes that the measures be continued for the first time until 1 July. It is an important overarching objective to ensure that viable activities and jobs do not disappear, but to ensure that the individual worker is brought back to work, healthy and obvious. Extending the measures beyond what is necessary will not result in the desired effects, but may result in undesirable consequences. The main objective must be to take care of and create more jobs so that more people can be included in the labour market. It is for this purpose that the proposal to the Government is presented. Christian People's Party supports it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e529	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e534	Those who are the furthest from the labour market are often the ones who have been on redundancy payments. Why won't the Christian People's Party support the proposal to extend the period of time spent on redundancy benefits, now that the labour market is the way it is, and it's so hard to get back into work?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e539	We've been involved in extending the time they're given, so I don't know what time my representative is.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e544	If the representative had read the statement, there is a proposal from the Central Party, SV and the Workers' Party to extend the period of time that you can get the redundancy money, which I understand is that the Christian People's Party will not now vote in favour. Would you then feel that you are going to turn around here and vote for the proposals on redundancy payments in the vote?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e550	Of course, the Christian People's Party is in favour of what the government is doing, since we are part of the government. That's our position in that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e555	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e560	In addition to being the most serious health crisis in Norway, at least in the post-war period and probably in some of the decades before, the Korona crisis is the biggest economic shock in the Norwegian economy in the post-war period. Unemployment has halved from the peak in March and April, but there are, nevertheless, more than 200,000 unemployed in total or in part. It's more than during the financial crisis, the oil price drop and the dot com bubble. The challenge now is, of course, both to deal with the short-term consequences, i.e. to ensure that we get the infection down, and that Norway can reopen gradually and control it. The government has said that the measures must last as long as the crisis lasts, and that is what we are standing by. At the same time, we also need to think about the long-term consequences. We both need to ensure that we have measures that last long enough and at the same time ensure – as I saw the party leader of the Workers' Party as well in connection with the ferry price discussion in the newspaper yesterday – that the measures are temporary and can be reduced. And why is it important that the measures are temporary and can be reduced? Well, if we're going to create more and include more, we need to have room for private jobs. This is primarily a private sector crisis in unemployment, nine out of ten unemployed and out of ten out of the private sector. Then we also depend on the private sector having room to grow so that we get more jobs there. At the same time, the government has been involved in ensuring and improving temporary arrangements for workers and, of course, business crisis packages. Much of what is discussed in this package is really about the long-term consequences, for example. increased appropriations for labour market measures in addition to the sharp increase in the budget for 2021, and strengthening measures for the follow-up of the long-term unemployed and long-term unemployed, in particular those approaching the end of the daily allowance period, and in particular young people. Young people are the hardest hit on the labour market, both because they were often the last employed and because the industries that are now the hardest hit have many young workers, many of whom may have just got a foothold in the workplace. Therefore, youth action is one of the most important aspects of the crisis package. At the same time, it is also a long-term investment that we are building the wall between the education and competence cycle and the day-to-day pay cycle. That wall has been there for too long, now it is torn completely. Some border crossings we have to have, but also here the government comes back with more permanent solutions. Nav has been under a violent pressure and still is. They'll get $46 million. kr to hire more people, and the operating budget of Nav is increased by 366 million. kr, e.g. to strengthen the contact centre that accepts questions from both the sole proprietor and the majority of the people. With regard to the extension of the arrangements, we may take the discussion again, but the majority of the Storting has taken its decision and will take its decision, so they will be extended until 1 October. So we might have ended up there anyway, you know the government's argument for this, but we've done and we're going to do what we can to follow the decision of the Greatness as soon as possible. I want to spend the last two and a half minutes on -- I don't want to call it a warning, but just a description of reality. In addition to the government’s proposal in theproposals 72 LS, 75 S and 79 S for 2020-2021, additional measures are currently adopted for which there is a majority in the Stortinget. Like all other state councils, I follow the majority in Stortinget. Sometimes it's okay, sometimes I do it a little reluctantly – but it's reluctant inside of myself, and it doesn't come out in any other way. We follow it up as fast as we can. What is important to be aware of, not least with the experience of March and April in mind, is that the sum of changes requires a great deal from the labour and welfare community. And they're already in a tense situation, even with big budget increases. Experience with the implementation of many and demanding changes in the short term in the spring of 2020 shows that major changes that come at the same time can be very demanding. These are specific changes that work back in time, because our schemes are not designed to be refundable. Among other things, the daily allowance scheme is designed to report the amount of work you work, and it should also be harmonised with any other benefits. Despite the priority given to implementing – i.e. implementing – it may take some time for all technical system solutions to be in place and payments to be made. It's important that the Storting is aware of it, and it's important that we do this in a proper way, too, to minimize the risks to people and business.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e579	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e584	In his statement, the Council of State said that he was following the decision of Storting, albeit reluctantly. Prop. 75 S for 2020-2021, which was sent from the Department of the Council of State, did not seem exactly to indicate that the government had intended to follow up the decision of the Storting. Can we expect that kind of propositions and answers to government request decisions in the future? That proposition I think will go into the story that very special, and had that kind of propositions had a name, it would have been the fairy tale of Princess Vilk, who might have done the best in that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e589	I don't think I fully agree with the reality description there. What's right is that in the proposition that was promoted, the government maintained its previous positions. To put it simply – for those who are not necessarily in the terminology – it means that the government's position is firm. At the same time, this proposition came three days after the request decisions in Stortinget. It's pretty fast. I can promise that it was worked hard and intensely with this in the department just to deliver what the Stortinget needed to implement all its request decisions as quickly as possible, for here it was necessary, among other things. legislative changes and budgetary decisions. Then these matters have been in the Storting, and they are being dealt with today. That time of proceedings is the responsibility of the Stortinget. The normal thing is not to do it that way, but I want to say again that this was an attempt to follow up and give the Storting the opportunity to follow up their decisions as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e596	Thanks for the answer. If you needed some further clarifications, it could have been done in a proposition that came a little later – in Prop. 79 S for 2021–2021 – if one actually had the intention to follow up the Storting decision. But I would like to move on to a slightly different theme, because the Council of State was also concerned about it with leave, and that we had to look at competence. Nav has, over the last year, had very few tools to actually get people back to work. I was looking at numbers from the municipality of Lillehammer. There you've had 100 pst. increase in unemployment – 221 more unemployed now in January than last year. There is one smaller action area in Lillehammer. Are the measures taken by the government when there are fewer places for action in a year when unemployment has increased so dramatically?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e601	With all due respect for the beautiful and historically important town of Lillehammer, to which everyone in Norway and perhaps the world also has a relationship, Lillehammer is not the whole of Norway. I have to admit that I do not know exactly how many action areas there are in the municipality of Lillehammer, but I know the figures for the country. As the representative of Aasrud is sure to be aware, the budget contained something close to a billion to several action areas. These are technical calculations, but we now have a little less than 60,000 action sites. That's the technical calculation. There has been a sharp increase in appropriations and, therefore, in the areas of action. Then it's Nav who wisely distributes these beyond. We're not going to go into that in detail. I don't think it makes sense either that neither the Stortinget nor the government does, but we have had a strong investment in several action areas, and that effort was important.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e606	I thank you again for the answer. I understand that the Council of State has not looked at the figures for each municipality, but if the Council of State takes the time to do so, look at the Inland, look at the municipalities that are particularly affected by the situation in travel life, where many have come out on leave and action, I have a question. Now that we see that so many are licensed, there are too few who are offered some kind of training. You're gonna be your own success blackmailed. As permite, you have to figure it out yourself. How will the Council of State strengthen Nav to take responsibility for those who are on leave and to enter into educational courses, courses of competence, which will give you the necessary qualifications? We cannot let it be the responsibility of the individual permissive person – society and the system must take greater responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e611	I fully agree with the overall reasoning. Let me just take some items. Firstly, we have said that once we have had a strong and massive increase in the allocation of response sites, with several response sites as well, young people must be given priority. They are then also given priority in the follow-up. That's the one. The second is that we also want Nav to use just training as a measure, more than they do today. It brings me to the third and maybe the most important thing, and that's that we have to start thinking about another way around the daily allowance period. A part who loses the job, or gets a permit, should either return to the same job or be available for a shorter period. It's okay. But some are available for a long time, and being able to fill the time with competence, education – getting the letter you never received, it based on higher vocational education, i.e. the vocational schools – is absolutely crucial. Therefore, the government is not satisfied with just having a temporary solution to this, but is going to present a fixed solution to tear down much of the wall between education and daily pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e616	There is no doubt that several of the crisis packages – what we are dealing with now, and what we have dealt with before – cost enormous amounts of money. It is money that is well spent, but it is important that we make sure that the money goes to those who need it the most. Nor is it a secret that the Council of States is a sworn supporter of Norwegian membership of the European Union, as opposed to the Progress Party, which is against Norwegian membership of the European Union. However, in a previous exchange of lines I had with the representative Lundtägen, it was claimed that in practice Norway almost obliges us to put in place new arrangements to ensure financial support for EEA citizens. Does the Council share the view that the system we have in Norway today does not comply with the requirements of the EEA Agreement and that it is necessary to do as the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left have proposed: to create a new compensation scheme to enable Norwegian taxpayers to participate in and finance workers in Spain, Romania, Lithuania and Poland?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e624	I don't know how comfortable I am to be a kind of Supreme Judge between the representatives of Lundtigen and Wiborg. But here there are really two things that are right at the same time. Firstly, given certain criteria, it is the case that, as an EEA worker, the rights of the Norwegian labour force are exercised. You have the right to sickness benefit, you have the right to a daily allowance if you get a permit, etc. – and there we cannot discriminate between Swedes and Latviers, or between Swedes and Poles or Germans, or whatever it should be. The second thing is that if we introduce new income schemes, even if they are temporary, it is not possible to introduce new income schemes that only hit some EEA citizens based on the assessments we have and which are also firmly anchored in EEA professional environments. So, that is, if, in an exceptional situation, you want to compensate only Swedes, it must also mean that, because of the principle of non-discrimination in the EEA, that scheme will also affect other EEA workers. But as I said, these have earned rights in Norwegian working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e631	First, I would like to thank the Council of State for clarifying the EEA Agreement. We have a different view of it, but we have the same recognition of its obligations, as opposed to the Progress Party. So that party has a way to go. The pandemic affects our people who are sick or out of work, for example those who are on redundancy pay, or who have only partial working capacity. There is too little focus on these people. Of course, it is true that the focus is on those who are normally outlawed and usually dismissed, but those who are really struggling are those who are on redundancy money, or those who are clear and who are job seekers. The Centre Party, the Workers' Party and the SV suggest that we immediately extend the period of receipt of redundancy benefits as long as the crisis lasts, and that those who are not prepared for work-related disability benefits are also entitled to an extension beyond three years. Why doesn't the government support it?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e638	Also in this case, I think maybe the representative Lundtigen and I have different views, but the same recognition. The recognition is that this can be a difficult situation — and it is — for many who are on redundancy pay. So the representative knows the reason why we thought it was a reasonable assessment to treat those who are going to the labour market and are ready to do so, with those who are the beneficiaries of the daily allowance, is an extension. Then we keep out of that extension for everyone we had before, who was not a date extension, but an extension of the time period the benefit was on. So it's like this that we can get into a situation where it's also right to extend for everyone, and I've been completely open that this is something the government thinks on an ongoing basis, but it has to be not just because you have something shut down somewhere, but because Nav says they can't give it the follow-up that they normally do. That's why I think it's not the right time to do this right now, but there might be a situation there, for example. all measures must be closed throughout the country, where it is appropriate to review them again.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e645	If we say that Nav is doing his job – something that they are not doing, because it is disastrous how Nav works in terms of redundancy payments today, but let's say that the Council of State is right, and that he is taking care of this; wonders happen: One is being clarified with partial working ability – and I underline partial working ability, but so much work capacity that one does not get ill-worked – and one stands without a safety net. Why can't the Council say that in those cases the safety net needs to be improved?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e652	Now I am a little uncertain about exactly what the representative is asking about. You can either be cleared for disability benefit – and that does not require 100 pst. Disadvantages, it may also be necessary to meet the criteria for total or partial undeclared benefits — or to be able to be settled in the labour market. Then it's absolutely right that there's a part that's not being finished, and it's -- and it was a long time before the coronary anemia -- a big problem. This is also one of the reasons why we have strengthened Nav, precisely to be able to improve the follow-up of AAP users. So you can disagree with how the AAP is put up, and think that the periods are too short and like that. These are discussions that we have independent of the corona. But the assessment in this context must be whether there is something extraordinary right now that warrants an extension. And I'm saying that there might be such a situation, but right now, as of today, we believe that it's not right to decide that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e659	The border commuters who work in Norway, but who live on the other side of the border, do not have the possibility to go to work after the border close. This group falls between all the chairs today and is standing without income insurance, because they are not sick, they are not allowed to go to work, and they are not allowed to go to work. SV has proposed a solution to secure these limit commuters, so that they are not left without income protection. Is it the case that the Council of State will set up a scheme to secure the income of these frontier commuters who cannot travel to work as a result of border crossing?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e666	It is not hard at all to understand that this is a very difficult situation, not only for the frontier commuters, but also for many others who travel regularly, either daily or weekly, to Norway to work, and who are now not allowed to come to work. The dilemma with any new financial compensation is that, based on the assessments we have made, it is not possible to make anything for just one part of the EEA citizens, and not all. That is, one can get into some tens of thousands that will qualify for it. Then it is important to stress that these are workers who, at least to a large extent, have earned rights in Norwegian working life. If they get sick, they're entitled to sickness benefits. If they are licensed, Nav will pay the allowance. They have earned a daily allowance, and if they are permitted – and that is what the employer decides, the parties are responsible for the basis of the permit – Nav will pay a daily allowance.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e673	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e678	Since the government came with the first crisis package for approx. One year ago, the Stortinget has had to drag the government to introduce, extend and strengthen measures for the hundreds of thousands who have been on leave or lost the job, and for apprentices, freelancers and beneficiaries of redundancy payments. The government has used almost every opportunity to limit and reverse schemes that have benefited workers, while the generosity towards the big business owners has been equally inflexible – yes, so inflexible that even the economists, who are not very radical, to say the word, now seem to get the rich too much in mild gifts from the community. The fact that the Storting started to rise around last March and received significant improvements in the income insurance schemes shows that several parties realized that the daily allowance rates were too low and had to rise in order to provide an income from which it was possible to live. At the same time, it is only today that the bulk of the population – I would say finally – will follow up the repeated demand of Red’s Red people for daily allowances, including those who were unemployed before 20 March last year, to receive the same low-wage supplement on income up to 3G. It's good that it's coming now, but it's hopeless that it took so long. For the economy of the individual unemployed, there is no difference between losing a job because of the pandemic or for other reasons. The long-term unemployed have been severely discriminated against in the last year, and Redt is also proposing today that the government go back and correct this injustice by paying back the contribution to those who have missed the low-paid supplement on the daily allowance through the pandemic. Red will also have a lasting boost for several of the income insurance schemes. Extensions are good, but lasting improvements are better. The temporary introduction of a limited right to holiday pay is good, but a lasting reintroduction for all the recipients of the daily allowance, as we are proposing here today, is much better. The government comes through this package with a pretty good admission. The government, as well-known long-term recipients of daily allowances and redundancy benefits, deducted the benefits from 1 November to strong protests from Red and many others. Now, fortunately, the government is turning around and opening up many of these can apply for resuming, but the door must of course also be opened to the group of AAP recipients who are not finished, something Red suggests here today. Once again, we are seeing how the government puts up a completely incomprehensible discrimination, and it should be corrected by the Storting at this meeting today. Instead of holding on to what the government has done in the last year, by turning off and on the income of people at their discretion, the arrangements must be continued for the duration of the crisis. Thousands of people have had to make it through the winter more or less completely without income. This revenue hole must be sealed and Red proposes that those who receive their benefits now also receive after payment of what they should have had in months gone by since 1 November 2020. We're going to brighter times, but it's not because of government policy. We must ensure all the unemployed through the summer. Hopefully for the autumn we have a new large number, as well with a record red, so that we can use more of the forces to combat unemployment, not the unemployed, and ensure that crisis packages go to jobs and those hit, not to feast profits for wealthy business owners or property lords. With this I take up Red's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e695	Then the representative Björn Moxnes has taken up the proposals he referred to. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e702	For almost a year, our society has been characterized by the corona. At the same time, the government has been on the verge of interrelationship between infectious and income protection measures. It began in March, when workers were only able to cut their income because the warning period before one could be permitted was cut from 14 to 2 days. So the government proposed to cut the period of pay from the employer, from 15 to 2 days. During one week, the government thought that a large income loss was possible for people who were excluded from their job. Luckily, a wise sterilization made the system better. That's the way it still has. Arrangements have been extended for 12 hours – not because the government has made good proposals, but because the Stortinget has taken responsibility. Just after Christmas, a new wave of infection came without adequate arrangements being in place. On one Sunday, the Prime Minister said that it was unwise to extend the permit regime; on Monday, it was a matter of course that it came. Then came the proposal to extend the income insurance schemes, but not for very long. The proposals came in Prop. 72 LS for 2020-2021. Our party leader, Jonas Gahr Støre, took the initiative to gather the opposition to improve the arrangements. We agreed on 34 measures, which we asked the government to follow up. After being completely outrun in Stortinget, the government delivered the Prop. 75 S for 2020-2021. It's historic. I don't think anyone's seen a similar thing here in the house before. The government chose to ignore the majority. There was a proposition without conclusions, almost as a letter to the Stortinget. Now the majority repeat the same proposals. For the Workers' Party, we cannot accept that the capitalists are running away with large dividends funded by government crisis money, while the workers are going to take the greatest burden. Both people and businesses need predictability, and with daily changes in infectious diseases, schemes must be permanent over time. Although the government is now providing a temporary solution for holiday pay, it must be allowed to say that it is quite co-ko that in the future people will not receive the same compensation when they become unemployed. The arguments are exactly the same for those who become unemployed in 2022, as for those who have become unemployed now. They need help, and they need vacation money from the day money they earn. What worries me the most right now is that so few get into systems that give people more knowledge. There is a need for a lift, and the Workers' Party has proposed it. This is necessary because it is the turn of the workers now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e720	As committee leader Erlend Wiborg introduces, the Progress Party has used this time well to talk to people most and business. Together with Mr. Silje Hemdal and, hopefully, a new colleague from the autumn of Sigbjørn Framnes, we met on January 27, almost all of Hordaland's nutrition units at Teams to be close to the pulse and listen to the challenges they've faced. The feedback from them paints a clear and clear picture that there are uncertain times. It turns fast, they have to turn around quickly, and they need a code and a system from us that ensures the flexibility to make decisions quickly. The deferred VAT bill was a recurring theme that many took up, but almost as clearly as the theme was the permitting code and the employer period – from a whole business that met us in Hordaland, especially from the catering industry. When we met the business community in Sunnhordland, Geir Kannewohnen from Bakeriet Frügård was very clear that they had to change the framework from day to day and have to turn around quickly. So did Atle Wigum, from a subcontractor to the oil industry, say that things happen fast, and that they have to turn around quickly. We got the same picture from the Swedish Food Council and Bergen's nutrition councils: a whole business community needs better arrangements, so they can take them back if time increases. In the Bergens newspaper we could read a few days ago that Kjetil Smørås, who owns some hotels and outdoors, because of these rules, has 160 people who are on leave today, because there is too long an employer period. If he restarts the hotel, restarts the patios and takes them back, he will feel that the risk to the company is too great, because there may be a new wave in Bergen that will cause him to shut down again. So it's going to be a mistake, as the Center Party said in the debate, that the Progress Party only thinks about the employers. No, we think of the employees, we think of the 160 who are on leave in Bergen today, who would have got the job back if the employer had the opportunity to turn around faster. It is precisely the workers we are thinking about when we enter for two days’ employer’s period – the workers who are on leave today, who can then easily get the job back by adjusting the legislation as proposed by the Progress Party. In addition, of course, we are thinking about business. We depend on having a business that can make money in the future, so we have a government budget we can use in times like this. Then we are totally dependent on business having good framework conditions. For this reason, the proposal from the Progress Party is good for employers, good for employees and good for the state in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e739	I would draw attention to a note from the Workers' Party, to which the Centre Party and SV have joined, but unfortunately neither the Advance Party nor the Government Parties. It says: ‘These members refer to the most recent figures for registered unemployed persons, as per February 9, 2021, represents a total of 7.4 pst. by the labour force.» The pandemic has led to permissiveness and a sharp increase in unemployment. It's in itself a huge challenge. Most importantly, Nav and the government do not forget those who need closer follow-up, including those who need permanent work and job preparation. I Prop. The government says that efforts on labour market measures have increased, but we have received some alarming feedback from both the National Association of Labour and the NHO, who feel that people who already had labour market challenges before the crisis are being pushed further into line. At the same time, ASVL’s and NHO’s experience — and evaluations show — AFT is a good offer for young people who have fallen from school and who have experienced little mastery in life, for good adults with health challenges and for immigrants. The Council of State itself said here in Stortinget as late as January 19th this year: ‘This is an industry with a strong commitment to people who need help to get back to work or create a well-protected job.’ At the same time, the Council of State itself has created uncertainty about the future of the organisers of measures, usually owned by municipalities and counties, by suggesting that he will see other ways of organising work-preparation measures than by pre-authorised action organisers. So far, we don't know how, but many fears, probably right, that there's tendering that's the option. We have already seen offers of other types of labour market action lead to standardisation, centralisation and, with the greatest need, to a greater extent shifting out of the supply for the benefit of those closer to the labour market. It is known that the Council of State has ordered and received a report from the law firm Kluge, claiming that VTA and AFT are today being purchased in violation of the law. However, the Council of State of the NHO and the ASVL have now received a ruling from the Law firm Schjødt, which concludes quite the opposite – that current action organisers of the AFT and VTA operate non-economic activities and are not considered to be suppliers of a service in a market. So I wonder: does this mean that the council will now think about one more time before he destroys a good deal for those who need it the most?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e760	It has been absolutely necessary and proper to close our borders with Sweden and Finland, and now Sweden has also closed the border with Norway. We all know in this context what challenges this creates for those who are workers in border areas. I strongly recommend the Stortinget to read the article that is out on the NRK.no now, about Mattias Bornstedt, which comes in great economic difficulties. These issues are now widely discussed in the Nordic Council. I am the head of the Norwegian delegation to the Nordic Council. The fact that the Nordic region is to be an integrated entity even in difficult times is in many ways the sustainability of Nordic cooperation and the work we do in the Nordic Council. This closure does not create – I almost get to say, even if you shouldn't believe it, and I hope the Council of State listens to – unforeseen problems, because we had to know that when we close the border, there are significant problems in border areas. So we are facing a particular problem here, with the workers who live in Sweden or Finland, or elsewhere in the EEA area, who, as the Council of State has said precisely and correctly here in this debate, may be in serious difficulties when they have a job in Norway. That is why a proposal from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV is being promoted, which addresses this issue in a very specific way – a bit openly, in the sense that the government is being asked to clean up this issue. I can tell Stortinget here today that the Swedish Nordic Council delegation has asked for a special meeting with the Norwegian Government on this issue, and has already been granted it tomorrow. It is commendable by Minister of Justice Monica Mæland. I'm going to attend that meeting. I just want to say here to the Stortinget, and especially to the representative Wiborg, who is so very opposed to this and is talking about the Poles, almost a little contemptuous: the Poles are serious workers who in the case are perfectly precise according to what the Council of State said, have the right to come here and get this benefit. We have to be able to clean up these things when we close the boundaries, so that thousands of workers do not get into great difficulties. I end this article by asking the majority of the Storing to just join this. Of course, we have to be patient and see what the government comes back to when it comes to implementing this system, but we have to do this in the spirit of Nordic cooperation, and this with the Poles cannot stand in the way of such a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e771	Thanks to the previous speaker for his posts with a Nordic perspective. He would also like to mention that the Poles are serious workers with Mayor Raymond Johansen, who occasionally push them in front of him in the debate on the very borders of Norway and their closure. The ongoing pandemic is very demanding for the Norwegian economy and affects many industries, jobs and workers hard. Throughout the pandemic, the government has stressed that interventional measures for the protection of infectious diseases, which restrict the possibility of work and activity, are to be compensated for by strong, targeted economic measures and are to last for the duration of the crisis. In uncertain times, it is a political task to ensure that Norway has sufficient resilience to cope with the crisis and that the measures are proportionate, proportionate and can be rolled back whenever possible. Norway has also proven to be better through the pandemic than many other countries. The economic downturn seems to have been smaller, and the numbers of infected people and the number of hospitalisations are lower. The financial measures shall ensure that viable enterprises and jobs do not disappear, so that the growth of the economy can quickly recover from the relaxation of infectious diseases measures. Therefore, it is important that the measures are adapted to the situation, so that the measures themselves do not become the crisis itself by extending it. Although we are currently in a situation of more extensive infectious control measures, it is believed that the entire adult population in Norway will be fully vaccinated during the summer. In this way, infectious diseases and financial measures can be rolled back – if not before. The government has constantly adapted the measures to the situation, and we believe that this is also the right policy for the future. That is why we believe that it is unfortunate when the majority in the United Kingdom extends these measures until 1 October. I believe that it helps to prolong the crisis, toss the blues in the eyes of skilled workers, and can create false hopes in the worst cases, and lead more people to leave. At the other end of the pandemic there will be a strong need to create more and include more in the workplace. There will be industries and jobs that either need to be converted or will disappear, as Norwegian action packages cannot or will not remedy a lasting fall in global markets affecting Norwegian enterprises. Excessive duration of measures may hamper the necessary conversion and the possibility of new growth. Prior to the pandemic, Norway had visited 400,000 Chinese tourists annually. In the Municipality of Flanders, with 1,100 inhabitants, the Skorring sold over 200 pairs of Ecco shoes a week. Chinese tourists left about 1 billion. In Norway, however, there are not 400,000 Chinese tourists on Gardermoen on 2 October to save Norwegian jobs in the tourism industry. It's to seduce a lot of the lay-offs and the unemployed to think that extended schemes save their jobs. It weakens the competitiveness of those who are truly viable, who have to compete with those who survive on crisis packages, and the workers will also lose out on it. Therefore, it is important that the measures are adapted to the situation we are in. It is better to extend the measures if necessary than to increase the risk of the crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e788	On 29 January the government closed the border with Norway. Closing the borders is about infectious diseases, so closed borders belong to another debate. The issue we are discussing here today, and which we are dealing with now, is whether we are going to stand up for those who are hit by closed borders. Those of us who live along the border know that society is interwoven in many ways. It's a common housing and labour market, and we're interdependent. Then the border closed, suddenly many common people, workers, stood without income. They were not automatically entitled to a daily allowance, not automatically directly on a medical allowance. When I have asked the Council of State about what the government did in front of the boundary fences, I believe I have not received any good answers. Now, almost a year out in the pandemic, you should see that closed borders could be an alternative, why haven't you prepared better, been in dialogue and made sure that the arrangements were in place when the border was closed? Now, many days and several weeks after the border was closed, ordinary people still stand without income. There are ordinary people who are going to pay their nursery bills and the mortgage and make the family economy go around. The Progress Party has now spoken about the Norwegian taxpayers. That's exactly what we're talking about right now -- the taxpayers who actually worked out rights in Norway, and who in other cases would be part of our safety net, who would have sick pay, who would have had daily allowance on leave, but who now because of the fact that the situation is very special because of closed borders, are on a barside basis without any kind of income. Then the Workers' Party believes that it is only fair and reasonable that we set up. When the workers are without income because they cannot get to work, we must be there for them. Let me do an example. On 4 February, the government examined the possibility of closing the threshold for health professionals. We have been totally dependent on them during the crisis, and the government has said that we should applaud them, but they too were then assessed out of bounds. The result would have been that the nurses too, as we can thank a lot for the effort under this pandemic, had been without anything. This must get a quick solution. I hope that our proposal will have a majority, and that the government will now put in place a system for those who have no income.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e803	The Government has stressed that interventional measures for the protection of infection, which limit the scope for activity and work, are to be compensated for by strong and targeted financial measures. Everyone understands that balancing health against activity and social conditions is a very difficult exercise. It is important that the measures are proportionate, need to be able to adapt to the situation and, where possible, to roll back. It is important that measures are proportionate to the situation so that the extension of measures does not make it difficult to move forward and that we thereby prolong this crisis. At the same time, we must be honest that it is difficult to bring in the measures so that everyone who has lost income is reached by the schemes. Measures are now being extended for enterprises and for self-employed and freelancers, and in the proposal under consideration in the Financial Committee there is also more money coming to business, which goes through the municipalities, to ensure that enterprises that are not taken by the general schemes can also receive compensation. By allowing municipalities to distribute this, we can ensure that these schemes make local businesses even better, and that this can correct some of the distortions it has been difficult to incorporate into the large, general schemes. For the Left, who is dedicated to fending for entrepreneurs, small businesses and all those who take the initiative and create values and jobs for themselves and for others, it hurts that so many small or smaller start-ups have had a particularly tough time this year. We have to make sure that the sum of the measures we put in is also helpful to them. Finally, I would like to say that trust is perhaps the most important keyword in this time. The trust has been high, both in Stortinget and in the government, and we have done very well, taking into account the circumstances. There are, of course, arrangements that can fail and that can be perceived as unfair. We're going to hear a lot of stories behind this pandemic, both good and desperate stories. Now we have to trust that those who seek support really need it and do not exploit it. It has been difficult to guard against someone being left with more and less, that someone exploits arrangements while others get less than they should have, but our goal has always been to make the best possible use of them, as it is always for the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e814	I will just make a few comments on issues that have been raised, for the first time the leave and the day of the employer. There are three reasons — at least three reasons — why the government does not consider this to be right now. The first is that we have regional closures, while this is a nationwide system. The other one is that even though it has been used often, it is a powerful incentive, you might say, for permitting. We saw in March-April that there will be extremely many permitations of it if the employer days are set very low. And once again, this is a nationwide scheme, not just linked to specific regions. The third is, of course, that it also has a cost for the employees. So it's worth remembering that it was 20 days. Now it's ten days. I also want to remind you that the permitting system is a little special. Some of this is statutory, but much of it is also governed by tariffs and non-statutory standards/rules. One of the rules that are not statutory is that there will not be a new employer's period within six weeks. If you take back an employee and leave within a six-week period, there will be no new employer's period. So there's some flexibility. Then, both today and yesterday in the Questionnaire, there has been a lot of discussion about the question of those who change jobs – that is, if you like. is licensed and available and then changes the job, and the assessment is linked to a matter such as: The representative of Grande has travelled from Tøndelag. What I have said, including in the reply to the representative of the Grande, is that these are the rules of discretion in Nav. Then it is important that Nav use it and make that assessment, but also, of course, take into account that there is an entirely exceptional situation on the labour market. We're also going to follow up on this further. We will in a separate letter stress to the department that it will show the necessary judgement to ensure that the posted workers are not imposed an extension of waiting time when they have changed jobs while they were on leave. It will also include issues currently under consideration in Nav, including complaints. That letter will go as quickly as possible. So I've said something about the situation of the Swedish border commuters in the course of a series of rounds. I fully agree that this is a very difficult situation. At the same time, I just want to repeat what I said earlier, and that is that these are people who have earned rights in Norwegian employment. The permitting mechanism is that it is not the government that permits, it is the employer that permits. The basis of permissiveness is traditionally agreed between the parties. What I can say from our side is that if someone is on leave by the employer, Nav is ready to pay the day's allowance.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e829	The Labour Party believes that no one should stand alone in the crisis. The Community must face up to people who find it difficult, to our young people, to the unemployed and to businesses. The Labour Party believes that the crisis measures must last for as long as the crisis lasts and that they must be fair. That's why, since the pandemic, we've been fighting for more equitable income protection for the unemployed and the outlawed. We have also made many proposals that will provide these better opportunities for filling skills. It's important for people to be better rusted when the wheels get started again, whether they have a job to get back to, or they're forced to look for new opportunities. We have also proposed wage subsidies and more money for company internal training in order to allow employees to be at work and develop their skills rather than to be out of work. Time and again, we have seen that those who have been most economically affected by this crisis are not the highest on the right-hand side's priority list. All the crisis measures for fair daily and income protection are the Forced Labour Party and the Opposition to the Storting. The government, for its part, has tried to abolish the measures at each crossroads. It must be embarrassing for the government parties that the Stortinge once again overrun them – they are in the process of being completely evicted. The background to the decisions taken today by the Stortinget on income protection for the lay-off and the unemployed was an initiative by Jonas Gahr Støre, party leader of the Workers' Party, which gathered a majority together with the opposition parties on the Stortinget for a fairer and longer-term crisis policy. The government has been fighting all the way. They were so opposed that even though they were run over by Stortinget in the middle of January, they did not promote the proposals for the Stortinget that the Stortinget asked for. So to them they were. That's why they're once again run over by Stortinget. Right, Nordby Lunde says this is throwing blues in people's eyes and trying to slow down growth. Yes, it will be interesting to see how many employers and how many employees will nod to such a reality. This is only ideology from the right, without contact with reality. Then I am glad that the matter of waiting time finds its solution. I am pleased that the Council of State is now sending a letter to Nav with an instruction that you should not be charged with an extended waiting period when you are licensed as a result of the covid-19 pandemic, and we expect that soon enough it will have consequences for Malin Stavsøien.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e844	We're talking about big and small things in this case. Nevertheless, what may seem small in scale is important for those involved. The Labour Party has long wanted changes to the Code of Occupational Damage. We celebrate all those who stand in the first line and keep our society going under the pandemic, well deserved, whether they work in health care, in grocery stores, with cleaning, are weights, public transport jobs, etc. Then not only should, but must words follow action, for without it the words are not very much worth. In this respect, I would like to draw attention to proposal No. 9, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV, where we ask the government to make it clear that the important change made to the regulation on occupational diseases to include covid-19 with serious complications in the occupational injury list applies to all those who are particularly vulnerable to infection in the job they do. Unfortunately, we do not get a majority for that. Health professionals are covered by the regulation. It's right and right, and should just be missing, but – and it's a big but – what about all the other infectious exposures in the first lines of other industries, which are equally important to keep our society going under the pandemic? What would we do without open grocery stores? What would we do without the cleaners, the weights, the employees of the public transport? The trade union movement at Trade and Office and the Arbeitsmannsförbundet have asked the government to correct the injustice. The government has said no, and I wonder, Why? The Labour Party has asked the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs for a reason, but the answer was only that the legislation works as intended. This is the same inconclusive answer The Labour Party has received every time we ask for improvements in the rules on occupational injury and diseases. The list of occupational diseases has not been followed by medical developments. Then it is of course an improvement that covid-19 is added, but why should it only apply to health professionals? Fafo has demonstrated that today's legislation is gender discriminatory, for the benefit of men. It is therefore good that women’s obese health professionals are specifically mentioned in combination with the corona, but what about the other professions in the first line – in shops, in the clean? What about employees in schools and kindergartens? Why should it be more difficult for them to obtain recognition of occupational injury/morbidity as a result of the corona? Fair rules are particularly important in view of what has now begun to emerge from knowledge of the possible serious long-term effects of the corona. It would have been nice if the council could answer why one part of the first line should be more important than the other. I don't know if the Council of State is going to draw itself again, but I see that the Erlend Wiborg of the Progress Party is on the list of speakers, so I'm also addressing the question to him, so that the Progress Party can also tell why they don't support the claim from the rest of the first line.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e857	The progress party is for the employer period I, that the employer must pay for two days. It is an advantage for the employer, but it is also a problem for the employee. When the representatives Helge André Njåstad and Erlend Wiborg say that it is an advantage for employees, it is a direct mistake, and that has pointed out by the employees' organisations. The progress party was in on 10 days from 1 January. They now go on to say only two days, without compensation for employees. It's the Center Party against. We relieve the employer of only five days, and then we combine it with five days pay compensation in the Centre Party. It's a balanced solution. Then it is the proposal of the Central Party, the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party that the government ensures the situation of frontier commuters. In the concept of ‘border commuters’, for the Central Party, there are those who commute across the Norwegian border on a daily basis. So these are people from Sweden and Finland. The representative Martin Kolberg took up, is very important, because here we have had a Nordic common labour market from 22 May 1954. Then the rules were revised in 1982, and today's rules came into force in August 1983. That's the whole base of Nordic cooperation. Then, for example, comes. plumbers who commute across the border every day to be plumbers in an Askim holding, in the situation that the Askim holding has not licensed them and cannot permit them, because they have more than enough to do, they come in a very difficult situation when they do not get these plumbers, and then the plumbers sit ‘stuck’ and get no daily allowance either. The company's losing, everyone's losing. I hope that the Council of State will intervene in that meeting and have this cleaned up. If one does not get cleaned up in what is going on, which one should at least not lose, then the Council of State must do what should have been the absolute best measure, namely to look at the rules on the protection of people who commute daily across borders, because they are subject to a very, very strict regulation. The National Association of Construction in the NHO has said that if the Council of State thinks it should be even more stringent, they will rather accept it, because this must be done. I expect that tomorrow's meeting will sort that out, and that we won't discuss that question any more. Askim companies need orderly relationships.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e867	The last thing Mr Lundtegen said, I would say is perhaps the most perceptive thing that has been said in the debate here today, when the representative Mr Lundtegen believes that we should start opening up the borders and not necessarily follow the anti-bacterial advice that has been given. Now, opening up the boundaries of increased labour migration, I think, is not something we should do as the situation is now. In the debate, there are people who have insinuated that Poles and others are not doing a good job. That, of course, is not true. There are many skilled people working in Norway, who are from Sweden, Poland, Latvia and Lithuania – everywhere. That's good. There are many skilled workers who do a good job in Norway and pay taxes. They shall also have their rights. What we're talking about here is a proposal asking the government to make payments for what could be tens of thousands of EEA citizens. This is a proposal that the Progress Party is opposed to. We don't think it's Norwegian taxpayers' job to finance, as I say, people who live, for example. in Poland, Latvia or Lithuania. That was the one thing I wanted to address at the end of the debate. So that's what goes on during the employer's period, as the Progress Party proposes to reduce from ten to two days. The Council of State argued against the proposal that there were regional differences. Yes, the Council of States is absolutely right. There are regional differences, and they move. A new region may suddenly have to close down, and the fact that there are regional differences is a good argument for voting in favour of this proposal. For no one knows whether it is in Trondheim or in North Norway there is a sudden need to shut down, where more companies have to shut down and leave off their employees. Nor does anyone know what the situation is like when it opens up again, whether they can retrieve the employees from leave and give them a fixed salary. No one knows when that will happen. The Progress Party, with its proposal, wants to create the increased predictability that businesses themselves need. In conclusion, the representative Lundtigen makes a fundamental mistake when he believes that it is better for employees to be on leave longer than to be able to get back to work faster, which will result in the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e880	I am genuinely uncertain about how much time I should spend on Erlend Wiborg's argument in this debate. It would have been a lot to say about it, but I really don't have time. But I just want to say that also Polish workers who work in Norway, who pay taxes to Norway, are Norwegian workers. No one in this room can dispute that. Wiborg is trying to make his argument by saying that there are very good people from Poland and Lithuania and everywhere else. Of course, they do a good job, as he says, but we can't set up arrangements to deal with this border problem, because then we can get so many Poles in here. That's what he's really saying. That's what I think is really going around what's at the heart of the matter, and it's about that we have to solve this problem on a Nordic basis. I waited to ask for the word again because I was supposed to hear the Council of State, but the Council of State did not give any indication that he was particularly prepared to do anything active about this. This means that we are in a situation where an estimated 10,000 workers fall between all the chairs, and the policy is unable to sort it out, because the majority of the population are unwilling to give instructions to the council. I think that is very unfortunate and very wrong – and of course politically wrong, but also socially wrong. We have been very good in this room when it comes to adopting what is to be adopted and providing support to Norwegian businesses and Norwegian workers. It can save us in terms of what comes after the pandemic. I think the evaluation of it is essentially going to be very positive. But we shouldn't pose such an additional problem that we can't solve this for the people who honestly and honestly do a job in Norway, or for the sake of the Nordics in Sweden, who lose the job because they can't cross the border. Here, the Norwegian and Swedish governments should just sit together and sort this out. The Council of State covers itself behind what I would call bureaucratic argument about what it is possible to do and not do in such a context. The necessary political decisions can be taken without any problem. If the two governments could do that, and the majority of the population here in the house and the majority of the parliament in Sweden could say yes to it, this could be solved, and the Nordic workers could, within the framework of what is the spirit of Nordic cooperation, be satisfied with the needs they have absolutely legitimately, as a result of the necessary demarcations that have been carried out both on the Swedish side and on the Norwegian side. I hope that with the meeting we have tomorrow, we can go a step further than this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e891	Workers and businesses, self-employed workers, freelancers and others have been hit hard by the pandemic, and it has been absolutely necessary for the Stortingen to take targeted measures to ensure both income protection for workers, self-employed and freelancers and greater security for enterprises, which are in a serious situation. For the centre party, it has been absolutely essential that we ensure predictability as long as the pandemic lasts. It has been the big problem that the Government Parties and their Support Party have come forward with ever more unforeseeable proposals to reduce, phase out, cut down entirely necessary support schemes. Then there's a wave of infection, and then you see that this might not have been so clever anyway. To the discussion about the employer's period and what businesses should cover there: the centre party was opposed to increasing it to 10 days. We thought it would be kept in five days throughout the pandemic just because we saw that there could be new outbreaks of infection. That is the completely different situation – on the one hand, the government is almost at daily press conferences and talks about the danger of new outbreaks of infection, and that we must have restrictions, while not ensuring the basic predictability of those who will be affected. At the latest in connection with the government budget before Christmas, we tried to get a majority again so that the employer’s period of leave should be five days. Then the Progress Party voted against. That's what also makes a lot of businesses now in a very demanding situation when a shutdown decision has been taken, because you're going to have a high wage bill. Then one has to do the other: one has to take care of the workers and ensure compensation of pay, so that they do not get hurt. I heard the representative Nordby Lunde say that the government was driving and working on something, so it was actually a game from the opposition. No, what we are dealing with today is just an illustration of why it was important for the opposition to try to merge and at least provide a little more predictability and security, when the government parties themselves today argue that one should extend until 1 October. To that end, by extending the period of leave until 1 October: Yes, we can hope that most of the infectious diseases measures are rolled back into the summer, and that we can start gradually reopening society, but the companies will not be in full activity and be able to take all of their licensed ones back from the summer of. For this reason, it is important to have a transitional period and to ensure predictability for both workers and businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e904	The representative Per Olaf Lundteg has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e909	In the event of an outbreak of the pandemic, there was broad agreement on an employer’s two-day period plus 18-day compensation of pay. The criticism of that proposal was so great that the Progress Party and the government were in favour of a ten-day employer period. The centre party disagreed. Now we have the question: if it should be ten days, it should be five plus five, at the proposal of the Centre Party, or shall it be two, at the suggestion of the Advance Party? The representative, Wiborg, is completely wrong when he says that our proposal will lead to you getting a permit any longer. Our proposal implies that employers are inspired not to permit so quickly, while employees are covered after five days with full pay compensation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e914	The representative, Kolberg, once again admirably addresses the situation of the Swedish border commuters. If I have given the impression that this is not something the government is working on, I have given a wrong impression. This is, to the most extent, something we're working on. My point in the debate has just been to describe what are the real frameworks we have to work within, but there are several different tracks here, of course. One track is the nature of the arrangement, that is, the permitting mechanism. There is a track in which the parties have traditionally determined the basis for the permit, and neither are the parties who permit it. It is up to the individual employer to do so. There I simply find that Nav is paying daily allowances to workers who are on leave. The second track is related to infectious disease protection. For example, Sweden, as far as I know, although they have closed the borders of Norwegian entry, has opened up to workers from Norway to a greater extent than vice versa. It's not directly in our department. It is a combination of the Ministry of Justice, which is responsible for the entry rules, and the Ministry of Health, which is responsible for the protection of the infectious diseases. Then there are solutions that possibly go on compensation and extraordinary benefits, because these employees, at least as of today, have not been permitted and thus do not get the daily allowance they are entitled to. It's in my department, and that's where I point out that when we work and look at different solutions – we're going to do that – we also have to take into account that it's not possible to create our own Swedish and Finnish solutions. If we create a completely new benefit, as an emergency solution, it must go to all EEA workers who have earned the same type of rights but are not allowed to get to work. It is important for us to follow this case, and therefore the Minister of Justice will have a meeting with the Swedish delegation tomorrow. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs will also be represented by political leadership. I also want to meet Swedish politicians about this, and as I said, we have worked on several different tracks in the past. So I'd like to associate an overall comment with that with predictability. In retrospect, it is important to consider who has contributed to most predictability and not. I don't think, when most people look at what's going on, that it's always necessarily as predictable, even after the Storting has come in. I just want to remind you of one thing in the end, and it's that, after all, even though there's been a disagreement, you've been able to find together in many big things after rounds on Stortinget. I think that's good, and that's also the way that even though there are certain things that could have been done differently and there's going to be a lot to learn from the handling of this, we have, as it looks now at least, managed or got through this with lower infection rates, fewer deaths and an economy that does it better than in many other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e929	The reason why employees, employers, lay-offs and unemployed people have felt that it has been unpredictable even though the Stortinget has repeatedly come in and cleaned up and made the schemes more long-term and fairer is that the government has tried at every crossroad to narrow down, to reduce the length and to reintroduce the injustice originally proposed by the government into the schemes. I took the floor to refer to proposal No. 10, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, on the right of priority in order to strengthen the employment protection of workers under the pandemic. That proposal was drawn up together with those affected by it, together with representatives and trustees in the trade union movement. In addition to submitting that proposal to the majority, the Progress Party has chosen to submit an alternative proposal that will take effect throughout the case, proposal No. 18th@item: inlistbox Here they indicate that this applies only if employment has been terminated on grounds relating to the effects of the pandemic. How do you actually define that? It is easy to say if the company and the workplace are directly shut down as a result of advice from the authority, but activity declines in e.g. a hotel as a result of less activity but not directly resulting from the pandemic or government recommendations becomes a difficult border crossing. I am afraid that with the proposals of the Progress Party there will be a lot of bureaucracy and a lot of lawyer food. That is why I call on the Progress Party to draw up its proposal No. 18 and rather agree with the proposal which will help those affected by this and which the trade union movement recommends. Then I must say that the matter of frontier commuters shows the true face of the Advance Party. This concerns workers who have been invited to work in Norway, who have stood on and contributed to the construction of the country, who have paid taxes to Norway, but who the Progress Party believes that it is only to send on the hoax and fox – excuse me the expression – out of Norway to stand entirely on the bar. That's okay – it shows the true face of the Advance Party. We hope that the bulk of the population can help and correct the unfortunate handling of workers who are currently in a very vulnerable situation, and I am in this way happy that the Council of State signals that this should also be done in Nordic cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e940	The representative Martin Kolberg has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e945	I want to express great respect for the fact that these things are not simple, but we are facing an actual situation that we have to solve, and there were more uplifting signals from the Council of State in his last post, I would say. I don't know if I can be polemic in these situations, but why are you against the proposal? The proposal asks the government to come back to Stortinget with solutions to deal with these problems, and then the council says that they are working intensively on this, but they don't want a decision. It's a little bit amazing. Maybe we can clear it up before we finish this discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e950	In a relatively early exchange of lines between the Council of State and the representative of Grande, I think the Council of State came up to the pulpit and talked about the fact that the representative of Grande continues to discuss with voices that are probably inside his own head, and not what is actually said from the pulpit. That's also one of the reasons why I'm taking the floor here now, because there's an impression that the government had to drag its legs in order to extend the measures. As I tried to say a little politely in my first post, and not call it political spin and game, so the government put out Prop. 72 LS with its proposals for extended measures on the same day as the 77 request decisions were adopted in the evening. It would probably mean that the opposition runs on the government's proposal and only extends those that were already on the table. In addition, Stortinget got a new proposition back in just three days, with everything we needed to deal with what we are about to deal with today. At least it shows a government that does not drag its legs. When the representative of Grande believes that it is a political ideology to adapt the measures to actual circumstances, I just want to remind you that FHI actually estimates that the adult population can be fully vaccinated during the summer. In fact, we believe that it is wrong to extend measures until 1 October, because we are then in danger of extending the crisis. It helps to throw bladders in the eyes of outsourced workers and, in the worst case, may lead to long-term leave for long-term leave with end-of-life pay rights. But on the other hand, no challenge has proved too great for this government, led by Prime Minister Erna Solberg, whether it was the legacy of the red-greens, where you had 25 billion. kr more in tax receipts and sky-high oil prices and still had longer hospital cows than we have been given, and increasing unemployment with the oil price crisis, where 50 000 jobs in the oil industry disappeared and were lost, but were acquired in some years, by 2017. We started last year at this time with historically low leave in Norway. Here again, when the government takes up its third period of government after 1 October, because this country, when we extend the measures also beyond the period when the Norwegian population is going to be fully vaccinated, and we are ready to create new economic activity, will need a government that is fully focused on creating more and including more in the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e963	A brief comment to Mr Kolberg's representative: why are the parties to the government not voting for this proposal? I guess there's three reasons for that. Firstly, it is not common for government parties to vote in favour of proposals that the government asks the government to do something that the government says they are already working on. That's the way it is now. It's known from both this and previous governments. There are also two other reasons. The next one relates, if not directly to the exact same reasoning that the representative Wiborg and the Progress Party have had, so that the understanding may be close enough to the fact that the Storting here wants a new performance. That's the second reason. The third reason is that, as I described, it is not given that any solutions to this, if they can be found, are such that we have to go back to the Stortinget. To take two hypotheticals – I stress that they are hypothetical – examples: If you make a new benefit to compensate temporarily, for the time being, these employees are not permitted, even if they have earned a daily allowance, it will, of course, have to go back to the Storting, both the law and the decision to grant. If, on the other hand, and I stress again that this is hypothetical, solutions that are more concerned with infectious health advice – the limits are based on just infectious health advice, where the Health Directorate and the Public Health Institute are committed to limiting the number of people entering – are not the issues put before the Stortinget as such. The representative, Lundtigen, outlined something like this. But again, it's not my opinion as Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. It's a vector assessment, as the government of course does, but where we also listen to the professional bodies, the Health Directorate and the Public Health Institute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e977	The representative of Arild Grande has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e982	Heidi Nordby Lunde once again claims that with an extension of the crisis measures, we could be at risk of prolonging the crisis itself. It has been claimed by Heidi Nordby Lunde and Right all the time when Stortinget has wanted predictability in the crisis regimes – and they have been wrong all along. That is why the Right has always come after the Workers' Party and extended the crisis measures, but unfortunately it has created unforeseeable and insecure for both workers and employers. They are asking for predictability. They're doing that now. They don't get that from the right-hand side, but we force it through. So it's very simple when it comes to frontier commuters, instead of carnival talk and excuses: if you want this, it's just to vote for the Workers' Party's proposal. Then you put that arrangement in place. And if you now vote it down from the Right, we are concerned that they find little reason to come back to the Storting with a case where they actually suggest what they have just voted down. So if they think they're going to do this, then they have to vote for that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e989	Elise Björnebeck-Waaagen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e994	The representative Nordby Lunde claims that the government controls long-term and steady. It's a truth with modifications. I want to draw four examples: Increased rate of daily allowance: it has been proposed to be terminated, or to have an expiry date, until twice during the pandemic, in November and at the end of December. Apprentice support scheme: it has been proposed to be wound up, or to have an expiry date, twice. The compensation scheme for self-employed persons: it had an expiry date in October, December and February. Finally, the period of leave, the scheme in which there is the Storting and the social partners who have left the government over and over again. What we are proposing here today is an economic compensation. Here the government has free frameworks to find what makes sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1014	That's something that surprises me when the Right Representatives talk about permitting and the fear of extending the scheme – I think everyone who's in this room really hopes that we get the vaccine population, and that we can go to a normal summer meeting. And if that happens, the Labour Party actually relies on Norwegian employers and Norwegian workers, that no one will go further than necessary. We've had some trips in terms of the vaccine situation, but the jam has also been some downs, and how the summer is going to be, I don't think anyone dares to predict fully here in this room. If it is that one can not be on leave for more than 1 July and one has three months' notice, the employer must now take the decision, during February and March, to terminate the employee. I strongly doubt that by the end of March we are sure that Norway will normally function again during the summer, and I do not understand why they do not provide better predictability, so that employers know that the period of leave can be extended. If not, I'm afraid that many employers are going to start cancelling people for no reason. Employment is not served, nor is it served by employees. The right-wing fear of giving an extended leave must mean that you do not trust that the business community will make the right choices and that they believe that the goal of any employee is to go as far as possible. The Labour Party doesn't think so. We think people are going to make wise choices. But then it is better to have a longer period to plan for, and that one does not come once every two months with new extensions. So I recommend everyone to support the suggestions that lie here on it. It gives predictability, and it's the best for both people and businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1023	No more people have asked for the floor on the matter. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1040	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, there will be a replacement of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1047	The Committee has examined an SV representative proposal on adult vaccination and it is gratifying to see a broad consensus that this is important. Norway has a good model of paediatric vaccination programmes, which also have high confidence in the population. It protects children from very contagious and potentially fatal diseases. Before we received vaccines, parents lived in a constant and real fear of diseases we today hardly know their name. Copper, for example, took the lives of about 500 million people in the 1900s. Now the disease is eradicated, and it's thanks to the vaccine. Not all vaccines in the pediatric vaccination programme provide protection for life. Diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis and polio vaccines need to be updated every ten years to ensure protection, but unfortunately not everyone knows. Under the pediatric vaccination programme, these vaccines are given in 10th grade, which means that adults should take a refill vaccine at the age of 25 and every 10 years thereafter. There is reason to believe that many adults do not take the refill vaccine, either because they are not aware that there is a need, or because they do not have an overview of the last time they took the vaccine. To this end, the Committee unanimously endorsed a decision to establish an information system to inform citizens of the need for the refilling vaccine. This can be solved by SMS, or alert via healthnorge.no, where your vaccination status lies. Of course, it would be voluntary to take the refilling vaccine, but the information may help to improve the ability of citizens to protect themselves against infectious diseases. Through the coronary apathy, the confidence of the population in vaccines has increased. There has never been a greater demand for pneumococcal vaccines or regular influenza vaccines. The Committee considers that to be positive. Unfortunately, access to these vaccines has been lower than demand. 1.9 million people at risk and health professionals working with them are recommended. Last year, Norway had access to 1.2 million doses, while pharmacies contributed another 0.3 million. About 900 people die every year in Norway of all ordinary influenza, against which there is a vaccine. The Committee expects that the demand for influenza vaccines will increase in the years to come, and that is positive, for vaccines to save lives. Therefore, the government should ensure good and long-term agreements on these. Pneumococcal vaccine is recommended for all over 65 years of age and all at risk. So one has to have the filling vaccine of this every ten years to have protection. Pneumococcal diseases are very serious, and even with antibiotic treatment, the mortality rate in such a disease is 20 pst. So, the vaccine saves lives. An adult vaccination programme is about protecting our citizens from infectious and serious diseases throughout our lives. Influenza and pneumococcal vaccines must be offered to the risk group and people must be reminded of the need for the refilling vaccine. I am pleased that the majority on the Stortinge agree on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1062	The focus on vaccines has never been greater. The world is now in the middle of a pandemic, and we have witnessed a massive mobilisation to develop effective vaccines against the disease covid-19. Happily, many vaccine candidates have been approved, and now it is about us in Norway, as in other countries, to roll out the doses as soon as possible. Municipalities are also ready to increase this capacity only if they get enough doses. Vaccinations are usually something we think about for children, through the paediatric vaccination programme, here in Norway. This has caused us to eradicate childhood diseases that unfortunately continue to affect children in developing countries. Some vaccines are recommended for adults, either to refresh the vaccines you received as a child, or because the risk of having a serious course of some diseases increases with age. In the drug notification, Proper use – better health, Report. St. 28 for 2014-2015, the government announced that they would investigate the establishment of an adult vaccination programme similar to what we have for children, and that arrangements and priorities should be further explored. A unanimous increase joined in this, and the Institute of Public Health was given the task of investigating the matter. The Public Health Institute’s recommendation, which was transmitted to the Ministry of Health and Welfare in 2018, is to establish an adult vaccination programme such as: includes seasonal influenza vaccines, pneumococcal vaccine, primary vaccination for those missing, including vaccines for refugees and asylum seekers, such as MMR vaccination, and child programme refresher vaccination. This corresponds to the vaccines referred to in points 1 to 4 of the draft representative. We in the Workers' Party believe it is critical that the government has not spent any money on such a programme in the state budget, and we really do not understand exactly where this matter has gone to government. That is why we have several proposals that have already been put forward. I would also like to address the proposals in which the Workers' Party is involved, from a minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1073	The representative of Ingvild Kjerkol has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1078	Vaccination is an effective protection against disease. Data from the World Health Organization show us that vaccination prevents about 2-3 million deaths per year. Take, for example: Measles, who in 1963 took 2.6 million lives. In 2017, the same disease took 110 000 lives. For our public health, vaccination is important. In Norway, we have a well-functioning child vaccination programme with a lot of excitement. In addition, we have an influenza vaccination programme and now also a corona vaccination programme. But we don't have our own adult vaccination program, which means that parts of the growing population may not have taken the vaccines they took, for example. should have been refreshed. Others may not have been included in the pediatric vaccination programme, although the programme is valid until the age of 20. FHI also distributes free measles and rubella vaccines to adults who have not been vaccinated against it. However, there is no systematic programme for vaccination of the adult population, which could mean that the population is not as well protected from infectious diseases as they could have been. That's why it's important that we look at how we can better follow up on adults who want to take the vaccine. The right considers that the pediatric vaccination programme has been a success. Government parties, together with the Progress Party, are now proposing to investigate how an adult vaccination programme can be implemented. The government and the Progress Party have put this on the agenda in the past. Its layout and prioritisation need to be further investigated, but this should also be done. Besides, we're very busy making everyday life easier for people. It's not always easy for people to remember the last time they took the vaccine, against, for example. tetanus. It should be fully possible to send a reminder to people when it's time to take a new vaccine, and new technology gives us new opportunities to get to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1091	For many years, there has been broad political support for establishing a vaccination programme for adults and risk groups. The Government itself makes this point in a proposal in the 2015 call for proposals. The Government Party and the Progress Party are making proposals today to make further progress on this. The centre party thinks there is no need for further clearance decisions. There is now a need for a declaration of will and a political decision on the introduction of a vaccination programme for adults. The centre party believes that this should be possible gradually. We don't have to wait for everything to be done. It's been six years since the government itself announced that they would outsource the introduction of a vaccination program, and the government's party, together with the Progress Party, makes a similar proposal today to settle the same thing as one has spent six years. I think that's kind of offensive. The central batch is behind the following suggestions in the setting: ‘The Government is asking the Government to submit proposals as soon as possible for the gradual introduction of an adult vaccination programme based on the Public Health Institute’s recommendations on priority vaccines.’ The pandemic has shown us the value of vaccines, which many have been in the past. Waxes save lives, and vaccines prevent disease. A vaccination programme for adults and risk groups is an important public health initiative. It will, of course, provide better health, but also less stress on community health services and fewer hospitalisations. Thus, the National Institute for Public Health has produced a report on vaccination programmes for adults, and they have come up with their recommendations. The centre party believes that for a vaccination programme for adults, this recommendation from the National Institute of Public Health must be taken into account. When it comes to refresher boxes, the Central Party believes that it is natural that it belongs in a vaccination program, but we also have a proposal that an automatic information system can be developed for the inhabitants when there is a need for a refilling vaccine. To the SV proposal on high-dose influenza saccharine: we thought it was a very interesting proposal, but I thought it was imperative to go in for it over the table. But this should definitely be part of such a programme. To the vote: I consider it so that if proposal No. 1, from the Labour Party and the Centre Party, if applicable, the Centre Party may vote subsidiaryly for I in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1113	I'm so happy. Finally, we can get a vaccination program for adults, something SV has been working on for many years. The entire committee, all the parties, is voting for information when we need a cure for diphtheria, tetanus and pertussis. Hurray! I think more than I forget that we have to take a new vaccine dose, since the vaccines go out to date in our body. Finally, people will get the information they need. The vaccines are important to protect ourselves, but we must not forget that we must protect others – those who have poor immune systems, or those who are allergic to the vaccines. It's important that as many people as possible take the vaccines so that we can fight diseases. Therefore, SV considers that the vaccines should be free of charge. We know that for every crown the vaccine gets more expensive, less will take it. It is sad that only SV will provide free vaccines when we know that it will help even more people to take the vaccines. There is an investment Norway should make. Some parents don't vaccinate the children. It should be voluntary to take vaccines, but for me personally, it is not possible that parents fail to protect their children from diseases. Therefore, young adults should be offered to meet a doctor so that they can get the right information and an offer to receive the vaccines they should have received in the paediatric vaccination programme. It is not the children's fault that they have not received the health care they need. I would ask the other parties to help these young adults and vote in favour of the SV proposal. I'm very happy that we are now starting a vaccination program for adults. Thanks to all the parties that now support this. I am promoting all the proposals from the SV and we will vote in a subsidiary way for the other proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1126	The representative Nicholas Wilkinson has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1131	Vaccination is an important measure to protect the population from the spread of infectious diseases. Good vaccination coverage in the population is a prerequisite for good infection protection and better infection control. In Norway, today we have three national vaccination programmes. These are the paediatric vaccination programme, the influenza vaccination programme and the coronary vaccination programme. The Public Health Institute provides recommendations and professional guidance for their implementation and defines risk groups and other target groups for vaccination. Representatives propose that recommendations and offers of refresher doses and other vaccines for adults and the elderly be organised in programmes and that a call-up plan be established. In addition to recommendations and professional guidance related to the established programmes, the Public Health Institute recommends vaccination of adults, including vaccination against the diseases proposed by the proposers in its proposal. Details of this can be found in healthnorge.no and fhi.no. If you are unsure if you need a dose, you can go into the vaccine service at Healthnorge.no. There you can check the vaccination status for yourself and your own children under the age of 16. Where appropriate, the decision may be made on whether to belong to the target population for vaccination and, where appropriate, to the introduction of the vaccine. As stated in the pharmaceutical notification, the government has put the vaccination of adults on the agenda. As a follow-up to the notification, the Institute for Public Health has provided an assessment of the level of infectious disease where it is proposed that adults be offered vaccination against influenza and pneumococcal disease, the basic vaccination for those who are missing, and the doses of vaccines that do not provide protection for life on the same basis. A systematic offer of vaccines to adults can be arranged in different ways and with different levels of self-payment — from full coverage of vaccination by individuals to partial cost coverage and to free vaccination. A dietary/benefit assessment of the vaccines proposed in a programme under public control should therefore be carried out. The process involves the Medical Products Agency, the Directorate for Health and external experts and is open to the public. This should be seen in the context of experience from the influenza vaccination programme in 2020 and, in particular, the coronary vaccination scheme in order to ensure effective and consistent organisation. With regard to the representatives' proposal to create a convocation plan, I see that there will be a positive solution in which the population will be made aware of the need for a refilling dose of vaccine within the current system and at the same time be able to use the vaccine service at healthnorge.no. However, such a solution must be investigated and seen in conjunction with the assessments I have mentioned above.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1148	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1154	Usually I'm the last one, so this is new. FHI has made a plan. Much in the proposals SV promotes here, we've just copied from the FHI. It's been years since they made this plan. Why has the government not followed up and started these proposals in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1161	Now I might think that saying «many years» is a little exaggeration. The FHI received this assignment as a follow-up of a big-time message from the government. The fact that FHI copies investigations that the government has asked for as a follow-up to the government's announcements themselves has promoted is very fine, because it shows that there is support for the work the government is doing in this area. The phase-in of a vaccination programme for adults needs to be assessed in conjunction with all other good purposes that we assess in relation to our priorities in healthcare. Now we've been through a year where we've been in a very special situation, where we've given the influenza vaccine to the municipalities free of charge and with a low percentage in the firm doctors. We are in the midst of a large vaccination program against covid-19, and I think it might be a good idea to take the experience from it into account in the work of following up the investigations from FHI.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1168	Just one question to this health minister said, because now it's been free. SV has proposed that it be free to receive these vaccines. It's important to protect ourselves, but it's very important to protect the others. Will the State Council assess whether all vaccines should be free of charge in order for more people to take the vaccines?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1175	The degree of proportion or payment of the vaccines is an important question. This time we've chosen to have a very low proportion, and for those who have a free card, it's actually free when they do it at the firm. This has not been the case in Norway before. In Norway one has paid the vaccines even when one is an adult. Here we are in an area where we have to consider all the way what is the impact of the priorities we're doing. Clearly, when a vaccine is given free, there is every reason to believe that more people are taking the vaccine. But it also costs something, and it goes at the expense of other health measures. So this has to withstand the same priority assessment as everything else done in health.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1182	We give priority not to cutting taxes for the rich, and then we have money for this. A regular seasonal flu provides about 5,000 hospitalisations a year and costs 900 lives. Many older people die of influenza. Therefore, Germany, France, Spain, Italy, Austria, Sweden and Denmark have purchased high-dose influenza saccharine, but not rich Norway. It's more expensive to buy strong vaccines, but we know they'll save more lives. I am disappointed that the other parties will not give priority to this, even though it is more expensive. Vaccines for the elderly and vulnerable will help more people. What does the government think about getting high-dose influenza vaccines to Norway and vulnerable and elderly people in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1191	That's what we are for, and that's why we've done it. Norway is one of the countries that have bought high-dose vaccines and used it for the priority groups now in the vaccination programme we have been through.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1196	That's wrong. We have not purchased high-dose influenza vaccines, we have purchased another influenza vaccine. Now I have forgotten the word because of aphasia, but it is not high-dose flu savaccine. FHI has made a plan and bought it this year, but we don't have a plan to have a differentiated influenza vaccine for the vulnerable and the elderly. So then I just want to ask the government again, because now it was just the FHI who bought it for some of the older people in the nursing home. We propose that we have differentiated influenza vaccines to protect the vulnerable. Will the government consider getting it in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1201	It is not that the FHI buys vaccines on its own initiative at its own discretion. It's part of a follow-up to decisions by the government of the FHI. Once FHI has purchased a vaccine that has a higher effect, and prioritised it to the elderly in hospital homes, it is part of the follow-up to government policy. So I've done the same thing now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1206	No more lines have been requested. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1213	Thank you for a good debate. I need to comment on some of the things that have been said, including: on the investigation of an adult vaccination programme. That's not exactly right, what the representative Toppe says, that this has been clear for so long. The investigation by the Swedish Institute of Public Health was completed in 2018, and I do not agree that everything is clear so that you can go for voting on it today. That is why the Committee on the Rules of Procedure does not vote in favour of proposal No. 1 by the Workers' Party and the Centre, but it has made its own proposal together with the Government Parties, which are in the Committee's position on Decision I, namely to consider the phase-in and financing of this as well. I want to remind the Storting that it's an ongoing coronary apathy, and it's full focus on vaccination related to it. That is what we in the Progress Party believe is right. Once the coronary apnea has been managed and the population has been vaccinated, it is important to start an adult vaccination programme. It would then be natural to look at both the supply of basic vaccines, refresher doses and also whether or not to differentiate between influenza vaccines and high-dose influenza vaccines. Therefore, the Progress Party does not vote for the proposals from SV in the case, because we believe it is right to look at it in the full programme with which it is to be worked. As far as funding is concerned, there is nothing that we in the Progress Party have taken a stand on, but I want to remind SV that nothing is called free. Everything we decide here is tax-financed in that case, and we are committed to keeping the taxes as low as possible. So we'd better get back to funding the adult vaccination program. But I am very pleased that there is now such a broad consensus on this in Stortinget, and I have great hopes that the government can quickly deliver an information plan for this with the need for refreshment doses. It is probably the case that the few of us have written into the calendar when exactly ten years have passed since we took a vaccine against chick cough, and a reminder that the time has passed, and that there is a need for a refresher, will be very positive. We in the Progress Party are committed to providing the public with good information and the opportunity to protect themselves against serious diseases throughout their lives, and I look forward to the information programme being put in place now, and the Committee and the Storting unanimously support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1226	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1244	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, up to five rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up to 3 minutes on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1251	This is a case dealing with action against quackery and better prioritisation of health resources. In this case, a number of representatives from the Workers' Party are promoting five concrete proposals on this subject. Two of the five proposals were rejected by the Stortinget in plenary on the basis of point (e) of the second paragraph of Article 39 of the Rules of Procedure, cf. that the same proposal has been examined earlier in the same session. Therefore, the Committee does not mention these proposals in the vote. The Committee has carried out written consultations on the matter and has received a large number of hearings. A whole of 177 written hearings have been received by the Committee. This shows that the theme and proposals that we are going to discuss here today have created a great deal of commitment from individuals and organisations under the proposals. In addition to the hearings, State Councillor Bent Höie gave its opinion on the proposals, on 5 January 2020. In addition to the five proposals, four proposals have been made during the committee procedure. The undersigned expects the respective proposers to refer and address those proposals during the debate. The vote will show that none of the proposals in the case will be supported by a majority. The Committee therefore urges the Stortinget to attach the draft representative to the Minutes. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter. Then I come back to the pulpit to refer to the Right's view of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1262	Alternative treatments have been used by a great many for different pests. Our original proposal was promoted in order to review the alternative register and look at how we can better prioritise health resources. We would like to have a good review of the alternative register before any VAT imposed on treatment – because it is disciplines that should have been exempt from VAT in the old register. We have been concerned about and concerned about the spread of physicians and actors in alternative medicine who promise treatment and cure of disease for money without any proven effect. In the worst case, we believe this is to be seen as quackery, where vulnerable people's hope for help is abused for profit. Then we talk about welfare services that should also pay VAT in the same way as what is normal in Norway. We mean, among other things: that it was necessary to impose VAT on cosmetic treatment which was not carried out for medical reasons. Many Nordics use alternative health care and experience that it improves their quality of life. At the same time, we recognise that there is a great gap in quality and competence within the different disciplines. We therefore believe that the registry system should be involved in the protection of patients and consumer rights, and that we should have had a comprehensive review. Finally, I would like to address the proposal we are making today in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1277	The representative Hege Haukeland Liadal has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1282	The Party notes that proposals are being made for the government to impose VAT on alternative treatment. In the context of the treatment of the State budget for 2021, it was decided that alternative treatment would be subject to a VAT obligation from 1 January onwards. The Progress Party proposed in its alternative state budget to maintain the exemption until a more thorough investigation and impact assessment had been carried out by the government. In the context of the budgetary agreement, we had to accept the abolition of this VAT exemption. The Progress Party knows that more and more people are using alternative health care, and they experience that it improves their quality of life. Many people experience that they are getting rid of the suffering of school medicine has not been able to cure. Especially different types of conversational therapy are important for many. At a time when most people are struggling because of covid-19 and the shutting down of society, it seemed like the worst time to increase the cost to those who feel they need this help the most. I am also afraid that the pressure against public health will increase because of this. The Progress Party has supported much of the alternatives and responds to the shift of words that has taken place in the wake of the budgetary decision. The debate has shown little respect for practitioners with long-term education and many years of experience and also for patients who benefit from the offer. Therefore, it has been important for us to make a distinction between serious and unprofessional treatment. It is the unprofessional players in the industry who create damage, negative talk and big headlines. It is unfortunate for the serious actors who, unlike the unprofessionals, have, as a general rule, both insurance and complaint bodies. The register is perceived by many as a quality stamp, which is not always the case. Treatments listed in this register may include treatment methods that require everything from weekend courses to many years of study. That's why we wanted a clean-up. The register actually offers a unique opportunity to make demands. In order to achieve therapeutic membership, a number of subjects should be required to be documented. Denmark has a system of registers and VAT exemptions linked to minimum competence requirements. This is the same conclusion reached by the Health Directorate in an evaluation report on the register in 2007. The Progress Party believes that a working group should be set up together with the largest serious practice organisations, in order to discuss in a sensible and sound manner what the industry can provide for the benefit of the patient, and to promote proposals to that effect. I am referring here to the proposal on which the Progress Party is on its own, and the proposal we have with the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1311	The representative Kari Kjønaas Kjos then addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1316	In 2018, almost every four Nordics sought alternative treatment at least once. There is a wide variation in the supply, including in the evidence of the effect. The area is poorly regulated, and there are few guidelines and standards on what is professionally defenceable. There are often few control mechanisms and supervision. The majority of respondents introduced VAT for alternative treatment from the new year onwards. Centre party doesn't support this. We support the proposal to ask the government to defer the introduction of VAT for alternative treatment until a holistic review of the alternative register is included in the Alternative Treatment Act. This proposal was defeated, we only received support from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The Labour Party and the Left Party will now have their own big message on alternative treatment, but it is a proposal that the Centre Party does not support. We would rather have a review of the alternative register. Alternative treatment has come to be. The World Health Organisation advises Member States to further develop the natural medicine treatment tradition. It is a political task to ensure that patient safety and consumer protection are safeguarded in this supply. We have received important input from the research centre in complementary and alternative medicine that the VAT exemption is linked to the alternative register has been an incentive from the public just to strengthen patient safety and consumer protection among those seeking legal alternative treatment outside the healthcare system. This has stimulated the industry to increase seriousness, professionalism, quality and orderly business relations. NAFKAM, which is this research centre, warns that the introduction of VAT obligations may have negative consequences for the safety of Norwegian patients. This may lead to fewer processors being registered in the register, and patients using alternative treatment will be more able to accept services from practitioners who do not require valid non-life insurance or membership of any professional organisation. Fewer practitioners will then have to adhere to skills requirements, professional ethics rules, complaint handling procedures, etc. We are making a proposal today, together with the Progress Party, on a review of the system of registers to ensure consumer and patient safety. I would like to say to the Labour Party, who in the Chair said that they too were in favour of such a review of the register system, that I expect them to support us in proposal No. 2, from the Center Party and the Advance Party. Then it will be able to have a plural today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1333	It is difficult to understand the diversity of offers. Treatment forms and medicinal products that suggest efficacy, without evidence, should be labelled in order not to cause confusion. In today’s information society, it may be difficult to distinguish proven professional knowledge from more uncertain claims. The SV believes that customers should be aware of up-to-date and knowledge-based information on medicinal products and treatment modalities when considering buying it. The choice to buy is the responsibility of the customer, but society can provide the best quality information possible. SV proposes the labelling of forms of treatment and medicinal products that do not have a proven effect but claim to be able to treat different conditions. I am promoting proposal No. 4 and hope the other parties support this. I am concerned that the professionals who have been in the alternative register should be able to apply for a VAT exemption if their treatment has a professionally justified health effect. We believe that after a professional review, several professionals would be exempt from VAT. For example, form therapy and psychotherapy are research-based, documented and quality assured. SV is for VAT for alternative treatment, but some of these professions are research-based and documented and should not pay. It's not alternative treatment. The government's proposal on VAT came quickly, and we think we should look at several of the professionals again.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1348	The representative Nicholas Wilkinson has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1354	I agree with many of the points made by the majority in the vote. VAT has been introduced from 1 January of this year on, for example: alternative treatment. A derogation from the VAT obligation has been made. The exemption shall apply when alternative treatment is provided as an integral and coherent part of health care financed in full or in part by the public, if the service is provided by healthcare professionals without special remuneration for the part which, in isolation, constitutes alternative treatment. Where no additional payment is required for the part that is isolated as alternative treatment and the scope is limited, legal and fiscal considerations indicate that the service should be treated in the same way as the main service, i.e. that there is no requirement for value added tax. Proposal No. 1 is that the government promotes a large-scale notification of quackery, proposing restrictions on actors who deliberately promise health benefits where this is not sufficiently proven and where the level of penalties for infringements of the law is reviewed. I believe, like the members of the Committee from the Right, the Left and the Christian People's Party, that it is not appropriate now to carry out a comprehensive review of the legislation by means of a separate announcement on quackery. Firstly, it is because existing legislation on alternative treatment is based on extensive investigation work carried out in recent times, and secondly because investigation work has already been started in the departments to clarify the legislation on so-called miracle preachers, including assessing whether the distinction between general and non-general religious activities can be clarified better than today. The key issue with regard to the miracle preachers has been whether their activities could be defined as alternative treatment, and that they therefore had to operate within the framework of the law on alternative treatment of disease, etc., or whether they were general religious practices that fall outside the scope of the law. I believe it is important to clarify whether parts of the activities of the miracle preachers can be defined as alternative treatments. Alternative treatment is allowed, and there are many people who use different alternative treatments. However, alternative treatment providers must comply with strict marketing rules. It's e.g. illegal for alternative treatment providers to use claims that a form of treatment has an effect on specific diseases or disorders, or otherwise design the placing on the market in such a way as to give such an impression.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1369	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1374	This is a matter that has created a strong commitment, including in the context of the treatment of the financial budget for 2021. My question to the Council of State is on the old alternative register, which contained disciplines as natural enough – in the view of the Labour Party, at least – should have been considered to be still exempt from VAT, for example. in the field of call therapy. My question to the Minister of Health, based on his responsibility to those who have a good health effect, is: What is the reason why one did not make an overall assessment prior to that financial and health treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1381	I believe that there was an overall assessment of this, and the case was also raised several times in Stortinget in advance of it. I also perceive that there was broad agreement in Stortinget to introduce VAT on alternative treatment. Then one has to make a distinction between what is a health care provided by an authorised health professional and what is not. The distinction between different treatments that are not carried out by health professionals, and therefore are not health care, is extremely difficult, because we will help, on the part of health authorities, to put an approved stamp on something that does not have an authorisation, and therefore not a professional basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1386	My follow-up question is then: Does it mean that the government believes that those who are currently required to pay VAT and who are now subject to the new legislation do not exercise qualified health care?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1391	If a person is to exercise qualified health care, he must be authorised as a health care professional or be part of a health care system in which there are those responsible who are authorised and comply with that legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1396	The alternative registry should be an incentive to strengthen patient safety and consumer protection for those using alternative treatments. When a person introduces a VAT obligation, one may agree or disagree with it, but my concern is what one does now to ensure patient safety and consumer protection. One could risk that the register is now less registered, and that was the new law on alternative treatment, that one should have this register as a system to distinguish serious from unprofessional operators. So my question to the Council of State is whether he is satisfied with the system of registers as it works now, or whether the government will improve the system in any way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1403	I think it is quite natural to have a discussion about the register system in the follow-up to the introduction of VAT on alternative treatment, but I do not think that one should go in the direction that the centre party and the Progress Party proposal involve, namely to give the register some kind of content which means that an even greater degree of expression indicates that this is something that has been approved by the authorities. That's what I think is basically difficult with the register even today, that it's actually a register that doesn't give any kind of public recognition, in addition to getting a VAT exemption if you're registered there. It may give the impression to those who use this register that there has been a public assessment of those in this register, and it has not been. I am concerned that through such arrangements, we can contribute to creating a false security for those who are applying for this type of service.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1408	The point is that the alternative can be worse, because then we don't get a register that ensures that the practitioners have a complaint system, an insurance system and a certain basic knowledge. In fact, those listed in the register today may have had a weekend course, or they may have had a four-year college course. I think it has to be so that one way or another is to get a register that can separate it a little bit. I would have hoped that the government would go in and look at how the register can work in a better way than today, especially for the design therapists, who have a four-year high school education, and who have an enormously important function against mental health and conversational therapy, that they will be treated in the same way as some other actors. So I'd like to ask the State Council if one doesn't see that one has to take a spin on the registry system.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1413	I was on the Stortinget and was on the Health and Care Committee when this scheme was introduced, and was then a member of the scheme, but I think that experience so far does not necessarily mean that the scheme has worked as it intended at the time. I think maybe a rather should have a discussion if it is at all right for the authorities to take a role in relation to some of the offers that people can buy, but that should also be it, namely offers that are sold in a market, and that it is more about marketing legislation and that one cannot sell anything other than that. For this is not defined as health care, nor should it be created as an impression that it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1418	I very much agreed with the Health Minister, who replied to Toppe now, but I was a little shocked by the answer from Höie to Haukeland Liadal, that only those who are authorized should be in this group who are not going to pay VAT. So I just need to know very clearly from the health minister, because does he think that logopeds do not provide professional health care, since they are not authorized? This is a bit strange, because almost all countries in Europe have authorised logo horses, but not Norway. I hope and believe that they do not have to pay VAT, but it was a little strange to hear the answer from Höie to Haukeland Liadal, and I would like a very specific answer, that the logopeds do not have to pay VAT when they work in the health sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1424	That's absolutely right, one shouldn't. We have people who work in healthcare who are not authorized health professionals, but then they work in a system that ensures that they are safe. I also tried to clarify that in the answer to Haukeland Liadal. However, the starting point is that a worker within a health-approved system will often be an authorised health-care professional who has a professional responsibility for the service provided. And then it is considered to give logopeds authorisation, as the representative also knows.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1429	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1436	The representatives of the Workers' Party address several proposals in the case where the Right-Shared View, in particular this paragraph, applies. 2 and 5 in the proposal for a representative, to introduce VAT on alternative treatment and cosmetic treatment not having a medical cause, which has also been introduced by the government as of 1 January of this year. When it comes to the Workers' Party's proposal to ask the government to promote its own big message on quack ointment, we do not consider it appropriate right now to have such a comprehensive review of the alternative treatment legislation. The reason for this is that today's law, which came into force on 1 January 2004, and which replaced the old law on quack salves, is based on extensive investigation work, including: Now 1998: 21, on alternative medicine. When it comes to the SV’s proposal to introduce a separate labelling scheme for treatments and medicinal products that have not been shown to be effective but which claim that they can treat different conditions, we understand that it may be difficult to be informed about a variety of offers. But such a state label scheme as SV proposes is both bureaucratic and unnecessary. It may also have unfortunate aspects, in the sense that a form of treatment or medicinal products that suggest efficacy without having scientific evidence, but for various reasons not marked by the proposed labelling scheme, may be considered safe and well-documented by consumers and patients and may thus be misleading. In order not to mention that such a State labelling scheme could also conflict with the medicinal product scheme by the fact that, if someone claims to have something to offer with a curative effect, it is by definition a medicinal product, which means that what is offered must also comply with the safety and documentation requirements relating to medicinal products, as stated. the pharmaceutical law. Nor can the right support the proposal of the Progress Party on a separate recognition system or introduce public professional requirements, training or competence requirements as conditions for registration in the register system. We have a fundamental view that no arrangements or legislation should be put in place that can be seen, directly or indirectly, as favouring a specific alternative form of treatment or alternative practice by the public. Furthermore, competent authorities do not have the competence to assess the professional competence or the soundness of different alternative treatments. Furthermore, no public authority can exercise professional supervision over alternative treatments, as is the case with the general health and care services. With that, I have presented the Right's view of the proposals that have been raised here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1449	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1466	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1475	This is a proposal made by six representatives of the Workers' Party to stop privatisation and prevent a two-part healthcare system. There are strong ideological dividing lines related to this proposal, but as long as I have worked on health policy, I have met very few who are for what goes under the vignette ‘two-part health care’, a health service that fundamentally conflicts with the Norwegian welfare model built up through generations. The concept is now so co-consistently negatively charged that it has lost its value in Norwegian society. There is a broad political consensus in our country that the best public health system is the most important building block in that structure, both socially, politically and economically, which many countries can only envy us. It's with this as a hindrance we go into this debate. Had it been the case that the majority of Norwegian health services were based on private solutions, as some countries do, we would have had a completely different discussion. As you can see, it is good to refer to the Health Policy Barometer in the proposal for a representative, which indicates that eight out of ten Nordics consider a two-part healthcare system to be negative. I think the dominant atmosphere here in the hall is the same. The health service on which the Left has contributed to building further is based on freedom and opportunities for all. In our view, free treatment choices are an essential part of this. The positive and important thing about selectable solutions is that they regulate cows and promote quality and innovation. There are countless stories of how solutions from private and/or non-profit enterprises have contributed to greater efficiency in public health. There are also several examples of managers from the private sector switching to the public sector and including solutions and a management style that has improved both treatment routines and the working environment. The issue of overtreatment is obviously an important issue. Without control measures, of course, incentives may arise to foam the cream of the health care system, as it is called. Private performance control is very important in this picture. I trust the standard of these control measures and that both the Medical Association and the authorities take this matter very seriously. Making the wise choice campaign, which aims to reduce studies and prevent unnecessary treatment, is an example of how we, as a society, can meet such challenges. I think that there is reason, on a general basis, to thank the committee, and in particular the chairman of the committee, for good cooperation. In the time we're up to, it's more than long necessary to hold health debates in a factual and informative tone. We owe it to those who in these times have such great confidence in the exercise of authority within this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1490	A two-way sharing of healthcare is a real concern among the population. According to Health Policy Barometer for 2019, 62 pst. that a two-part healthcare service is real. Eight out of ten Nordics say it's negative. A common health and care service providing health care by professional priorities is one of the carriers of the welfare country. It's our common public health service that set up in connection with the coronary crisis. Countries with public health services, to which everyone has access, are much better equipped to deal with pandemics by offering treatment to all, preventing further spread of infection, and coordinating businesses without bureaucratic intermediates and orders. However, the right-wing government privatisation reform Free treatment choice was suspended by the Korona Act. The system simply did not withstand the stress test in a crisis. The Labour Party believes that a series of measures must be taken to stagnate the privatisation we see and prevent a two-fold division, and to ensure that Norway still has one of the world’s best health services, where there are professional assessments, not willingness to pay and personal resources that govern the treatment given. The funding scheme Free treatment choice should actually be called the right of establishment for private treatment providers at the local hospital. In the winter of 2020, Health South-East wrote to the Minister of Health that there are examples of suppliers who have not reached regional bidding competitions but who have applied for and been offered under the Free Treatment Choice Scheme. At the same time, providers providing public health care and having an agreement with the enterprise have difficulty filling up places and thus encounter financial challenges due to the scheme. In sum, it is clear that free treatment options have a negative impact on health professionals’ priorities. In this proposal for a representative, we ask the government to take seriously the threat of a two-part healthcare service through, among other things. ensuring that health professionals in public hospitals cannot have private beekeeping and treat the same patients for which they are responsible in a private company. The proposal also contains several proposals to regulate the private health market, which have grown under this government. I would like to address the suggestions made by the Labour Party in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1503	The representative of Ingvild Kjerkol has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1508	This case is a distrust statement to health professionals working in private businesses. Mystillite is so strong and so thick that there is reason to ask if the same people deserve trust when they work in public health institutions. The proposalers from the Workers' Party are asking questions about the credibility of health professionals – employees in public hospitals who have private bee jobs in their own field of competence. It is suggested that healthcare professionals in the private sector are overseeing patients, that so-called non-reusable doctors have a slight approach to prescribing medicines, and that private health professionals who have a contract with healthcare companies are holding places and offer referrals to patients more quickly in return for payment, etc. These are strong claims against a profession that carries out responsible tasks for the benefit of Norwegian patients. The question of whether people are worthy of their trust is not about where they are employed, but about what integrity they have as human beings, and what ethical compass they follow. We have good health services in Norway. The right considers that public health provision should be developed and improved, as we have shown in practice in the last seven years. We also believe that the public offer should be complemented by private health actors because they create diversity, innovation and a totally better health offer than if we only have a public health offer. We believe that a mix of public and private offerings creates good synergies and good results for all of us. The important thing is not who gives us treatment, but that it is the public that pays for the treatment. Private actors do not in themselves provide a two-part health service. A two-part health service is provided if we are only to have a public health service and it is not able to keep health cows down, as it was before the government shift seven years ago. Long-term health cows make private alternatives available to those patients who can afford and afford. Long health cows also create good times for private health insurance. The largest increase in private insurance was in the last four years under the red-green government. In other words, the conditions for a two-part healthcare system were better under the red-green government than they are today. Private health services make it possible to offer free treatment options. Free treatment allows us to jointly extract the capacity of private individuals to reduce health cows, without costing patients anything. In the last seven years, private subsidies have been important for cutting health cows. During this government period, waiting time in hospitals has been reduced by two weeks until the pandemic started. If we get four new years, we're going to work to get health cows down further. Free treatment options prove to be particularly important for patients in mental health and drug treatment. For them, diversity in treatment provision is particularly important in order to succeed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1527	This is a purely ideological debate in which the Labour Party has taken a clear step to the left, in my view. In this proposal for a representative, they strongly criticise private operators, who are thus helping to cut health cows and increase freedom of choice for all of us. Free treatment choice is absolutely brilliant. Yesterday, I met a woman in Lillesand who had to operate her knee. It was a year waiting at the public hospital. This woman was a member of the Advance Party and, of course, knew well about this with free treatment choices. She asked if there was a private hospital that could operate her faster, and that was it. In her own municipality, the woman received treatment after nine weeks. For society, it means ten months less with sick pay. For this woman, it means ten months less with a broken knee and thus better quality of life. Free treatment has come to stay, and it's brilliant. So this is the exact opposite of a two-part health care system. I record that the left side supports that regulars, dentists, physiotherapists and psychologists can be private practitioners. In the case of coronary testing capacity, they are more than willing to buy it from private actors, but they are – with the Workers' Party at the head – very selective in asking private actors for health care assistance, when they call them welfare professionals, and when they accuse them of creating a two-part healthcare system. The party of progress separates itself from such rhetoric and politics. Private operators are crucial in reducing health cows and increasing the freedom of choice for each of us. With the model of the Progress Party, we are just countering a two-part healthcare system. The public shall be responsible for financing and monitoring quality. Each of us is given freedom of choice. I certainly believe that it is the left-hand policy that creates a two-part healthcare system, where everyone has to thank public actors anyway, and only those with money that will not be in line, who have the opportunity to buy out of it. For us in the Progress Party, the patients are the most important, not the organisational form of the provider of health care.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1540	When the coronary apathy arrived in Norway, some of the first temporary changes in the law introduced were the winding-up of the system of free treatment options. It says a lot when government's most important health reform doesn't tolerate a health crisis. A health reform that does not tolerate a health crisis when our healthcare services are in trouble is also not a health reform that you have to bet on in peacetime. Studies show that choosing a treatment site is a service that is used to the greatest extent by those with high education and high income. Population surveys show that closeness to hospitals and fixed pathways are much heavier than the right to choose a treatment site, so we should not exaggerate the importance of this for patients either. The National Audit Office's report on free hospital choice showed in its time that only 4 pst. by the users of the scheme chose to be treated in a hospital in another health region. This shows how important the public hospital service is to prevent a two-way sharing of our healthcare service. The free choice of treatment is, in fact, a free right of establishment for private individuals to pursue patient treatment paid by the State. It is then that private commercial providers are financed at the cost of public hospital provision, at the cost of food supply, local hospitals and ambulance services, which then receive less resources and fewer tasks. Then it may also be necessary to hold up the alert. Overtreatment is, of course, a challenge linked to privatisation. The central party supports the proposal to address this and whether private commercial operators should be more at risk of non-priority treatments in the public health service. The central party also supports the proposal to ask the government to review the practices of fully-private providers for drug prescription and referral, and suggests stricter regulation if practices indicate that there are systematic differences. For it is illogical to suggest that the development of a health atlas, which shows geographical differences in supply, is good, but fails to find out whether there are variations in the supply based on the provider. We also believe that there is a need for a review of the practices of private providers to hold places for customers who pay the most. There has been a sharp increase in the use of health insurance. Health Minister Höie's words that there would be no need for health insurance for the introduction of free treatment options have not been turned on. The centre party believes that a turnover tax on health insurance should be paid. We also support the proposal for a price cap on dental services that are fully or partially covered by the public.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1553	I want everyone to get the health care they need, no matter how much money they have, or how sick they are. I'm worried that you have to pay for health care, and then we know that many people can't buy what they need. For example, we have proposed free vaccines, which are good for the country to minimise infection, and it is good that everyone – absolutely everyone, including those who don't have that much money – can get the vaccines. The other parties have said that they will vote against. SV proposes to get a price cap on dental services in some of the schemes, which are important. We need an offence about private health professionals who carry out over-treatment in order to make money. They must take greater responsibility and risk of complications and injuries. It is very important to review fully-private providers so that they cannot distribute medicinal products that should not be printed out. For example, it's very important that we use less antibiotics. After a sample we might have to look at stricter regulation if that happens. SV, together with the Workers' Party and the Center Party, promotes seven proposals that I advise the other parties to vote in favour of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1566	In Norway, we have a long tradition of good cooperation between state, civil society and small communities. This is also true in healthcare. Public health is the pillar of support, but non-profit organisations and private individuals contribute an important diversity of actors and competences, which is a good thing for us as a whole. We also need this kind of welfare mix in the coming years. Non-profit organisations, hospitals and treatment services do an important job to offer a good and diverse health service to the Norwegian population. I hope that, regardless of who has to rule this country, they will be allowed to do so in the future as well. I notice that several people want to remove some of these actors. I have to say that it makes me wonder how you imagine that the health care system is going to go around, or whether we get the offer that is adapted to the diversity of people we are, for which the health care system is for. We need everyone who wants to contribute, but also that we can make choices based on what we ourselves want in a vulnerable phase of life. Being able to make decisions in your own life, even when you're sick, is important to many. It's true for the most part, and for most people, that a little bit of competition and interaction with other people and organisations makes us better. Having some actors in the health care community who are not quite like the others on management and vision, I think strengthen our whole health system. We do not know where it is given that the next best idea arises, and we all need wise minds and dedicated people who want to develop the health services of the future in Norway. That, for example: I am not in doubt about the strong and clear ideal actors who have contributed to innovation, diversity and flexibility in health care in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1579	It is the responsibility of the public to ensure good health and care services for the whole population. The Government will cooperate with private and non-profit actors to support this responsibility while contributing to innovation, diversity, quality and not least freedom of choice in the service provision. In order to achieve the objective of the patient’s healthcare system, the government has been committed to reducing waiting times and improving the supply through new and better ways of working. Cooperation with private, both non-profit and commercial actors is an important tool for achieving these objectives. My evaluation of the individual proposals is reflected in the written opinion of the draft representative. That is why I would like to explain more generally the government's approach to cooperation with private and non-profit actors. For patients, it is more important to get the help they need, and that it is publicly funded, than who delivers it. That is why we introduced the reform of the Free Treatment Choice in the specialist healthcare service. The reform gives patients more freedom of choice, reduces waiting times and also helps public hospitals learn from what happens in private. We give patients the right to choose treatment from authorised private operators, while the public bill. This helps to counteract a two-way sharing of healthcare. Without free choice of treatment and choice in the care service, only those who have a thick wallet have the option to choose the offer that best suits them. Therefore, the government is now working to introduce a approval model for free user choice in the municipalities, making it easier for municipalities to provide those who need help, a right to exchange, and not just a right to complain. The level of private health insurance has increased since 2002. The largest increase was from 2007 to 2011, under the red-green government. We see that the annual growth in private health insurance has been lower since 2014 than in previous years, and this coincides with reduced waiting times and increased freedom of choice through free treatment choices. The best way to address the need for private insurance is to ensure that public health and care services have the best possible quality and availability, including the choice of private but publicly funded services. The debate on a two-part healthcare service should not be about who is performing the service – whether it is a public or a private institution. It should be aimed at ensuring that all patients have the right and proper treatment without having to take out private insurance or otherwise pay for private health care of their own pocket. The government will use all the good forces to ensure that patients have access to good and equivalent health and care services.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1599	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1604	I can follow the Council of State a long way to go because the debate on the use of private health care should not be about who does it, but about how it happens, and about how public health services can maintain governance and the ability to prioritise resources properly. To prioritise the resources correctly, we have taken a decision in Stortinget, we have had a prioritisation message. So my question to the Council of State is that Health South-East sends a letter to the Minister of Health, pointing out that private treatment institutions with which they have agreed are struggling to fill up their seats because the funding system Free treatment allows them to lose predictability and thus fail to meet that quality. Is the free choice of treatment not intended to ‘boost’ a private market, more than to care for medical needs?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1609	No, no, no. Firstly, free choice of treatment only includes services for which public authorities have said that public funding should be provided, and that is an offer only to patients for whom public authorities or those for whom public authority has been given have said to be priority patients. Therefore, free treatment choices respect the principles of the prioritisation notification. Some people who have an appointment with the public and public hospitals may experience that patients choose them away. There is a situation that they should take most seriously, but it could also have been experienced by the same institutions without free choice of treatment, for example. chose to go to the public hospital instead of to them. It should take as a very clear feedback from the patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1616	The establishment of free-treatment options institutions occurs where there are most patients. Does the aim of Stortingen not break down with the same good and equally accessible healthcare everywhere? And if you're going to have freedom of choice, when it comes to which treatment institution you're going to be treated, shouldn't it be a choice that applies all over the country? The establishment of these actors takes place in the central eastern region.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1621	No, not just there. It also happens in other parts of the country, fortunately, and I am very happy about that. We have drug services, for example: in Agder, which had been closed with the Labour Party's tendering policy, but which can now continue because we have free treatment options. It is an important offer to drug addicts, who thus have both a diversity of services and reduced waiting time. We see that there are many patients, e.g. from North Norway, who also chooses to be a public treatment institution in the East because we have free treatment options in Norway. I think that's positive, and then I'd like to see even more free-treatment options set up across the country, but in any case, the offer is available to patients throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1628	I have a question about health insurance, which has been debated. The Minister for Health said in time that the need for free treatment would be eliminated. Even if there is a smaller growth now, there have never been as many people who have private health insurance as now, and most people get it through the job. I have noticed that the Council of State has been concerned about the high use of health insurance, among other things. in an interview in the Daily newspaper where the Council of State says that if everyone with a job takes private health insurance, it can undermine the entire Norwegian healthcare service. I actually think that there are some of us, and I want to ask the council: what is the solution to this problem, that there are so widespread private health insurances in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1633	The representative of the Central Party very often has a reuse of one interview that I have done with the Newspaper once, and that is not exactly reproduced either. Because what I said at the time was that it was a goal that one should not need health insurance. But at the same time, I said that I am absolutely sure that the insurance industry is going to adapt the content of health insurance to that they are all trying to maintain a market. I am very concerned that health insurance should not be necessary in Norway to receive the necessary health care, and that good choices should also be made without health insurance. That's really my answer to the question. I do not believe in using bans and charges in this context, but I believe in using what we use, namely to ensure that you are a member of the Norwegian population and have rights to health care in Norway, you need freedom of choice, short waiting times and a variety of offers. Then it is not necessary to have health insurance.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1640	Interestingly, once again, the Council of State refers to the fact that free treatment choices and government health policies will lead to a decline in the use of health insurance, but now it turns out that this does not happen. It's still an increase, although the increase might be less in percent than it was before. Given the great concern that if everyone with a job has private health insurance, it will undermine the entire Norwegian healthcare service, as the Council of State has said in the interview, is a very big concern: does the Council of State have no other proposal than to continue as today, and does the Council of State believe that the use of private health insurance will go down?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1645	In any case, we see that the policy that our government is pursuing has helped to slow down growth, as opposed to a red-green policy that has increased health cows and thus also increased the health insurance needs of people. There was also record growth in the sale of health insurance as a result of that policy. So I think, as I've said several times, that the insurance industry is going to adapt its offer, for example. health insurance to a greater extent covers offers that we have not said should be part of the Norwegian public health service. That market will in any case be there. But what I mean by what I said in the Newspaper is that it is extremely important that we manage to keep that also that part of the population who is working and paying taxes, feels that precisely that they pay taxes and are part of the Norwegian community, is what gives the greatest security that they will also receive health care when they need it. That is why I am very concerned that we should both have a very good public health service – that is the most important thing – and that we should have short waiting times and freedom of choice in addition.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1652	Then we have to call voting, so we have to continue with the line change and the rest of the cases after voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1664	Then we're ready to go to voting. The store will first vote for the remaining cases from Tuesday, case no. 6-13 on Agenda No 50.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1834	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1844	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e1856	During the debate, Mr Henriksen put forward two proposals on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Civil Protection Act new Section 9(d) is replaced by the following: Civil defence officers may not be retired from office as a result of the service imposed in civil defence.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the necessary upgrading of facilities to be used by the Civil Protection Agency is fully financed.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e2218	It is contested in the fourth paragraph of Section 12. The Central Party and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e2232	The rest of I and II are voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e2242	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e2252	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e2264	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Maria Aasen-Svensrud on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party proposal No 3, from Frida Melvær on behalf of the Right Party and the Advance Party the proposals No 4 and 5, from Frida Melvær on behalf of the Right; proposal No 6, from Petter Eide on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government not to introduce saliva masks, and their use of handcuffs and/or bodycuffs, into criminal custody.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e2296	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4 and 5, from the right. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘ I Law No. 22 May 1981 No. 25 on the procedure of criminal proceedings is amended as follows: The fourth sentence of the first paragraph of Article 455 is replaced by the following: For judgments which decide to execute subsidiary prison sentences under § 52, first paragraph, point (a) or point (a) of the first paragraph of § 52c, the remainder of the sentence after parole is released under the second paragraph of Section 44 of the Penal Code and the sentence under the second paragraph of Section 39 of the Criminal Code, a decision is taken on the completion of criminal proceedings. II In Law 18 May 2001 No. 21 on the implementation of penalties, etc. It shall be amended as follows: Section 5 is replaced by the following: §5 Professional and administrative management of criminal services Crime prevention consists of levels of government at the level of the Directorate of Criminal Welfare and at the local level. The Directorate of Criminal Welfare is responsible for the professional and administrative management of criminal justice. The Director of the Directorate of Criminal Welfare is appointed by the King. Section 6 is replaced by the following: § 6 Authority to take decisions Decisions under this law are taken by the local level. In cases where convictions are under 18 years of age, a copy of all decisions taken at local level shall be sent to the Directorate of Criminal Affairs. Paragraph 7(g) is replaced by the following: (g) The Directorate of Criminal Welfare, even if the time limits laid down in the third paragraph of Section 35 of the Administrative Act have been exceeded, may, on its own initiative, reverse a decision taken by the subordinate body to the detriment of convictions or prisoners whose specific reasons so warrant. Paragraph 7(a) third paragraph is replaced by the following: The information shall be provided without undue delay. The Directorate of Criminal Welfare shall decide who has the power to obtain and receive the information referred to above. The fourth sentence of the third paragraph of Article 29 is deleted. Paragraph 37, fifth paragraph, first to ninth sentences, is replaced by the following: If the total exclusion from the Community exceeds 14 days, the Directorate of Criminal Welfare shall decide whether the prisoner should continue to be excluded. The same thing applies to every new 14 days. The decision of the Directorate of Criminal Welfare after the first and second sentences is not subject to appeal, but the first and second sentences do not reduce the prisoner’s access to appeal against decisions taken at local level. The first subparagraph, points (a) to (e) may only apply beyond one year if the prisoners so wish. The decision to exclude persons under 18 years of age shall be notified without delay to the Directorate of Criminal Welfare. Crime prevention shall continuously assess whether there is a basis for maintaining the measure. If the exclusion exceeds 3 days, criminal services shall decide whether to continue to exclude the prisoner and send a notification to the Directorate of Criminal Welfare. If the exclusion exceeds 5 days, a new notification shall be sent to the Directorate of Criminal Welfare. A new message will then be sent to the Directorate of Criminal Welfare at 7-day intervals. The first sentence of the sixth paragraph of Section 37 is replaced by the following: If partial exclusion from the Community exceeds 30 days, the measure shall be notified to the Directorate of Criminal Welfare. The third sentence of the eighth paragraph of Section 37 is replaced by the following: Crime prevention may extend the exclusion by up to 3 days if specific reasons so require. Paragraph 37, third to fifth sentences, tenth paragraph, is replaced by the following: The decision to exclude persons under 18 years of age shall be notified without delay to the Directorate of Criminal Welfare. Such deferral may be maintained for up to 2 days. The local level may extend the exclusion by up to 2 days if specific reasons so require. Paragraphs 38, 5 and 6 are replaced by the following: The use of safety cots shall be considered on an ongoing basis and criminal services shall decide whether the measure should be maintained after each 24-hour period. The measure shall be notified to the Directorate of Criminal Welfare when the use of cot exceeds 24 hours. For prisoners under 18 years of age, the use of cots shall be immediately notified to the Directorate of Criminal Welfare. The use of the safety cell shall be considered on an ongoing basis and criminal protection shall decide whether the measure should be maintained after every three consecutive days. The measure shall be notified to the Directorate of Criminal Welfare when the use of the security cell exceeds 3 days. For prisoners under 18 years of age, the use of a security cell exceeding 24 hours shall be reported to the Directorate of Criminal Welfare. In case of use of a security cell against prisoners under 18 years of age, the Criminal Service shall decide whether to maintain the measure after 24 hours. Paragraph 44, second paragraph, first sentence, is replaced by the following: If the parole officer, after having held an intrusion or established conditions after the first subparagraph, breaks down the terms and conditions, the criminal service may bring the case before the courts with a request for re-entry into prison for full or partial completion of the remainder of the sentence. Paragraph 44, third paragraph, third sentence, is replaced by the following: If the criminal service brings the case before the courts after the second paragraph, the execution of the sentence shall be suspended from the date on which the application is sent to the court. Paragraph 58, second paragraph, first sentence, is replaced by the following: If, after the criminal court has held an intrusion or established conditions after the first subparagraph, the conviction infringes the requirements or conditions laid down in points (a) to (d) of the first subparagraph, the criminal court should bring the matter before the court on application for the full or partial enforcement of the subsidiary prison sentence in accordance with point (a) of the first paragraph of Section 52. Paragraph 58, third paragraph, third sentence, is replaced by the following: When the criminal service decides to bring the case to justice, the execution of the sentence is suspended from the time when the application is sent to the court. III In Law 20 June 2014 No. 49 on the Law on Contradictory Procedures is amended as follows: Paragraph 31, third paragraph, is replaced by the following: If, after the youth coordinator has held a conversation as referred to in the first subparagraph or established conditions as referred to in the second subparagraph, the judgment again infringes the requirements or conditions laid down in points (a) to (d) of the second subparagraph, the youth coordinator may, with the consent of the police and the criminal services, convene a new major youth meeting, or transfer the case to the criminal service with the suspension that the case is brought before the court with the request that the conditional prison sentence be completed in full or in part in accordance with Section 52(c) of the Criminal Code. Once the youth coordinator has transferred the case to the criminal services with the suspension of bringing the case before the court, the execution of the sentence shall be suspended from the date on which the application is sent to the court.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a legislative proposal to the Stortinget relating to the Special Notice of the Civil Ombudsman to the Stortinget on the issue of isolation in Norwegian prisons, before the end of Stortinget’s 2022 session. A comprehensive assessment of Section 37 of the Criminal Enforcement Act is to be made in order to reduce the use of isolation.» The Left and Christian People's Party have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e2449	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the obligation to assess the danger to life and health through the use of saliva in criminal matters is complied with before the proposal is submitted to the Stortinget.’ The Green Party and the Socialist Left have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e2466	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that spitting densities are not used for children’. The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e2484	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Right and Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The second paragraph of Section 38 of the Penal Code is replaced by the following: Handkerchiefs, transporters, bodycuffs, spray protectors and similar coercive agents authorised by the Directorate of Criminal Welfare may be used to ward off other physical attacks on the person when the attack will be suitable for creating fear, pain or other significant discomfort. Spray protectors may only be used under supervision. Paragraph 38 of the present second to fifth subparagraphs shall become the third to sixth subparagraphs.» The Left and Christian People's Party have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e2556	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e2566	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e2585	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e2604	During the debate, Mr Eide has put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and propose to extend the system of child-care certificates, so that criminal convictions under the Criminal Code § 271, 272 and 273 on physical impairment, gross physical impairment and body damage are noted in the police record.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out a full review of the Child Care Certificate and return to the Stortinget with proposals for any changes.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e2638	The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e2657	Socialist Left Party and Red Party have announced subsidiary aid for II. The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e2721	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e2731	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e2743	During the debate, Mr Adelsten Iversen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The budget asks the Government to ensure that the request decision No. 182 of 12 December 2017, cf. Inner. 43 S and Document 8:19 S [[2017-2018]] [[2017-2018]] Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e2776	During the debate, Nils Kristen Sandtrøen put forward five proposals on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks for a proposal to prohibit the sale of imported meat, milk, fruit and vegetables products in the same type of packaging as Norwegian products.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks for proposals for labelling requirements for antibiotic consumption during the production of meat and milk products.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks for proposals for the designation of origin of processed products.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals on how to improve labelling in the restaurant and large-scale household market.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to come back with proposals for labelling of food and drink in the retail trade equivalent to the consumer-friendly and clear labelling of origin used in the wine monopoly.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up. The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e2825	The size of the store is then reduced to the number of cases. 1-3 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e2838	A total of 32 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-12, from Elise Björnebeck-Waagen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 13 and 14, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 16-18, from Erlend Wiborg on behalf of the Progress Party the proposals No 15, 19 and 20, from Solfrid Lerbreck on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 21, from Heidi Nordby Lunde on behalf of the Right the proposals No 22-32, from the Bears Moxnes on behalf of the Red In the event of an incurrency, the Central Party is listed in the vote as proposing proposal No. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e2864	The Labour Party shall vote in a subsidiary way in favour of proposal No. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e2869	The Workers' Party must be allowed to do that. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 22-25, 28, 30 and 32, from Red. Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government is asked to reintroduce full salary compensation for a minimum of 20 days for new leave until 1 October.’ [[up to 6 G]] Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government requests the return of holiday pay on daily pay, without a minimum of 8 weeks’ leave, with effect from 1 January 2020, so that daily pay earned in 2020 is entitled to holiday pay in 2021.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The Government is asked immediately to make necessary amendments to provisional Regulation 20 March 2020 No. 368 on exemptions from the Social Security Act and the Working Environment Act in connection with the covid-19 pandemic, in order to extend the increased rate of daily allowance, 80 pst. on a daily basis up to 4,5 G, until 31 December 2021. ‘... Proposal No. 25 sounds: «The government asks the government to increase the level of compensation in favour of self-employed and freelancers to 80 pst. with a duration of 1 October.» Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The government requests that the benefit be paid after the receipt of benefits to the beneficiaries of redundancy benefits which the jobseeker who is resuming the benefit from 1 March 2021 should have paid for the months November 2020 to February 2021.’; Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The government requests that the benefit be paid after the payment of the benefits to the beneficiaries of the redundancy allowance under § 11-12 should have been paid for the months November 2020-February 2021 when the benefit is resumed from 1 March 2021.’ Proposal No. 32 reads: ‘The State budget for 2021 is allocated under the following chapters: • Chapter. Item Purpose Kroner 2541 Day pay 70 Day pay, estimate, increase by... 9 535 000 000 from NOK 19 087 000 to NOK 28 622 000 000 2543 Temporary social security schemes for self-employed, freelancers and apprentices 70 Social security for self-employed and freelancers, estimate appropriations, increase by... 560 000 000 from NOK 266 000 000 to NOK 826 000 000 71 Remuneration for apprentices, estimate appropriations, increase by... 8 000 000 from NOK 24 000 to NOK 32 000 000 2651 Redeployment allowance 70 Redeployment allowance, estimate appropriations, increase by... 425 000 000 from NOK 31 380 000 to NOK 31 805 000’»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e2911	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 27 and 29, from Red. Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to extend the extension of the maximum benefit period for the recipients of redundancy benefits as job seekers until 1 October.’ [[§ 11-17]] Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The government requests the right to apply for the recovery of benefits from 1 March, with a duration of until 1 October 2020, to the recipients of redundancy benefits under Section 11-12.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e2934	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 26 and 31, from Red. Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The Government is asked immediately to make necessary amendments to provisional Regulation 20 March 2020 No. 368 on exemptions from the Law on Social Security and the Working Environment in relation to the covid-19 pandemic, in order to extend to 1 October 2021 the pension scheme for apprentices with a full rate of compensation for income up to 3 G.» [[also for new cases]] Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that an afterpayment is calculated and paid to all persons who have received daily allowances on a regular basis since 20 March 2020 and until 1 February 2021, despite the fact that the benefit has been increased for new recipients in the same period.’;» The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e2958	There is a vote on proposal No. 20, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to increase the rate of compensation for self-employed and freelancers to 80 pst. up to 4 G and then 60 pst.’» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e2975	There is a vote on proposal No. 19, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a minimum of half of the requirement for income in order to receive compensation as self-employed and freelancers.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e2992	There is a vote on proposal No. 18, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to propose amendments to Section 14-2 of the Working Environment Act in order to ensure a temporary extension of the priority by 12 months in order to strengthen the protection of employees who have completed their employment on grounds relating to the effects of the pandemic.» [[4]] Red has announced support for the proposal. The Labour Party shall vote in a subsidiary way in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e3004	SV shall also vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e3009	The Swedish authorities have also announced that they should vote in a subsidiary way for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e3021	There is a vote on proposal No. 17 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2021 is amended as follows: Cape. Post Subject matter Krona 2541 Day money 70 Allowances, estimates, are increased by: 2 519,000,000 from NOK 19 087 000 to NOK 21 606 000
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e3100	There is a vote on proposal No. 16 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to ensure that the employer’s period of compulsory pay on leave for the period from 1 January 2021 until the decision of the Grand Duchy on the change is added to 8 days’ wage during the employer’s period I as a separate cost component of the general compensation scheme and is refunded accordingly. the rules applicable to this scheme.’;» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e3118	There is a vote on proposal No. 15, from the Socialist Left Party. ‘The Government is asked immediately to make necessary amendments to provisional Regulation 20 March 2020 No. 368 on exemptions from the Social Security Act and the Working Environment Act in connection with the covid-19 pandemic, in order to extend the increased rate of daily allowance, 80 pst. on a daily basis up to 4 G, until 1 October 2021. ‘... Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e3135	There is a vote on proposal No. 14, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government requests the immediate extension of the employer period II from 1 June 2021 to 1 July 2021.» [[30 weeks]] The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e3152	There is a vote on proposal No. 13, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government requests immediate change of employer period I from 10 days to 5 days plus 5 days with compensation of employees until 1 October 2021 or for the duration of the pandemic.» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e3169	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2–7 and 9–12, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The government asks the government to increase the rate to 70 pst. in the compensation scheme for self-employed and freelancers.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government requests the immediate extension of the period of receipt of redundancy payments as a job seeker for the duration of the crisis until 1 October 2021.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that beneficiaries of the fixed-term benefit receive a period of grace, so that the non-clearance of the covid-19 pandemic does not result in a reduction of the three-year quota for the recipients.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government requests that the holiday supplement be reintroduced on a daily basis with effect from 1 January 2020, so that daily allowances earned in 2020 will be entitled to holiday allowances in 2021 in accordance with the rules applicable before 2015.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the strengthening of the Labour Inspectorate so that they can increase their activity of supervision in the workplace.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to implement immediately the necessary regulatory changes to ensure that persons who have lost their daily allowances or redundancy benefits as a job seeker in the period since 30 October 2020, on the basis of the fact that they exceeded the maximum reception period or because they have not met the minimum previous income or reduced working time have to resume the benefits from the time they lost them. Any other benefits or revenues that have been received in the recovery period since 30 October 2020 shall be deducted from the benefits received.’;» Proposal No. 9 sounds: «The Government is asked to clarify that Section 1 (h) (2) of Section 220 of the Code applies equally to all occupational groups defined as having social-critical work and regularly exposed to a risk of infection at work.» Proposal No. 10 sounds: «The government is asked to temporarily extend the preferential provision of Section 14-2 of the Working Environment Act by 12 months in order to strengthen the protection of employees’ employment.» [[4]] Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that frontier commuters who are now unable to enter the country to work because of closed borders are subject to arrangements that ensure financial compensation.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that recipients of AAP’s redundancy payments that have not been settled against employment and jobseekers are also entitled to the extension of the benefit period.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e3234	There is a vote on proposal No. 8, from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the permits are not imposed extended waiting time on the basis that they have changed jobs while they were licensed under the covid-19 pandemic.’ The Progress Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e3254	Since several votes have not been registered, we take the vote on proposal No. 8 again.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e3266	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to immediately reduce the requirement for lost working time in order to receive daily allowances during the period of leave to 40 pst. until 1 October 2021.’ The other parties have indicated their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e3281	There is a vote on proposal No. 21, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: «The government requests the deferral of the employer period II to 1 June 2021.» All parties have indicated their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e3711	The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e3730	Behind the setting are the governmental parties and the Progress Party. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced subsidiary aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e3749	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 2, from Erlend Wiborg on behalf of the Progress Party proposal No 3, by Erlend Wiborg on behalf of the Labour and Social Committee There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I In Law 6 May 1988 No. 22 on the obligation to pay during the period of leave is replaced by the following: § 3 b Special provisions on the period of compulsory pay during a period of leave up to and including 1 October 2021 For a period up to and including 1 October 2021, the employer's period is for two days. II The law shall enter into force immediately.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e3787	Since some votes have been incorrectly registered, we take the vote on proposal No. 2 again.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e3799	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Labour and Social Committee. The proposal reads as follows: «Proposal for a Decision on the Temporary Act on Compensation Benefits for Self-employed and Volunteers who have lost income as a result of an outbreak of covid-19 § 1. Scope The Act provides for the right to compensation for self-employed and freelancers who have lost their personal income as a result of an outbreak of covid-19. Losses in income that trigger other living benefits do not qualify for compensation. The compensation may be granted to operators and freelancers who have had a business or a freelance activity in Norway which had started up and been active before 1 March 2020. The law also applies to persons on Svalbard who are members of the public security pursuant to § 2-3. Section 2. Conditions for benefits Self-employed and freelancers with personal income from industry or assignment more than 0,75 times the basic amount of social security [[G]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e3812	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e3823	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e3835	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Ingvild Kjerkol on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party proposal No 2, from Ingvild Kjerkol on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 3-6, by Nicholas Wilkinson, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3–6, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks that the supplemental vaccination against diphtheria, tetanus and chick cough be free of charge.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to propose the introduction of a basic vaccination programme for all adults who have not received all the vaccines in the paediatric vaccination programme. The programme must include a call-up plan and ensure that vaccination and vaccines are free of charge.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to review vaccines introduced in the paediatric vaccination programme in recent years, such as the pneumococcal vaccine, and to propose a programme of refresher against pneumococcal. Vaccination and vaccination shall be free of charge. Anyone who needs a refresher should receive a call. Those who have not received the pneumococcal vaccine shall be offered free of charge to receive both the vaccination and the vaccine.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to establish a differentiated influenza vaccination programme with high-dose influenza vaccines for the elderly in hospitals and other groups authorised by the government.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e3882	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to decide whether or not a proportion of the adult vaccination programme may be included in the BIP.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal. The Socialist Left and Red have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e3901	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to submit proposals as soon as possible for the gradual introduction of an adult vaccination programme based on the Public Health Institute’s recommendations on priority vaccines.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal. The Socialist Left and Red have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e3930	The Green Party has announced its support for the vote. The Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced subsidiary support for the suspension. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e3996	We go back to the examination of case No. 5, where we were in the middle of a line change. The next replicator is Nicholas Wilkinson.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4001	I'm worried about the economy in the hospitals. Free treatment options are paid by hospitals. The money goes from a public hospital. I understand that the right parties are for this arrangement. If we are to have this scheme: will the government consider that the payment comes from the state, not from public hospitals? As I said, I'm worried about the economy in the hospitals. Will the government estimate that the government is paying for free treatment options, so that the money will not be cut off in our public health services, which almost everyone is using?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4008	It's the state that pays for free treatment choices. Each health region in Norway receives money to provide healthcare to its citizens. That is how the Norwegian State pays for specialist health services in Norway. Of course, when choosing a free choice of treatment, it is the health region from which they come, which is responsible for paying for it, in the same way that they are responsible for paying if they choose to travel to a public hospital in another region. If the representative is not for these patients to wait indefinitely and have the right to treatment — because they do, these are patients who are entitled to treatment — then the alternative is to treat them in public hospitals. There is a higher price for the same treatment. With the Swedish policy, there would be less treatment and longer waiting time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4017	The cord shift is over. Several have not signed up on the list of speakers, and the debate on case No. 5 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4036	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4043	We had a hearing with five organisations: the Trade Union, Sex and Society, the Federation of midwives, the Norwegian midwife association and the Bunadsgerilja – thank you for good information that has improved the case. The Storting decided that the maternity ward in Kristiansund would last. The Minister of Health is responsible for all hospitals in the country. It is the government's responsibility to follow up decisions. They haven't done their job. They have not prioritised food supply, and especially food supply in Kristiansund. SV, the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Centre promote two proposals for decisions: firstly, that the Government should follow up Decision No. 574 for 2019-2020, to ensure the operation of the Kristiansund Food Department and, secondly, to provide the necessary professional and economic resources to ensure the proper functioning of the Kristiansund Food Department as a matter of urgency. It is important for SV not to hit the food supply in Molde. The National Audit Office’s report points out that regional health firms are not doing enough to ensure recruitment and to maintain nurses, specialist nurses and midwives. Me and SV, together with the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, promote proposals for increased staffing in order to ensure the safety, quality and one-to-one care of women in active birth, stepping up the municipalities, working places for midwives and long-term plans to recruit, maintain and train more midwives. Usually there are two adults when a child comes to the world. It is important for the children and the mothers that the partner can be involved. We propose – together with the Progress Party, the Workers' Party and the Centre Party; we have worked together with a good proposal – that it be facilitated so that the partner can be involved. We believe that input-driven funding should not be used for the provision of food. Good manning that can prevent complications loses the battle for resources when we have an ISF scheme, as complications increase the payout. We believe that we need a new financing mechanism, as we propose. I am promoting all suggestions in the setting that SV is in.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4060	The representative Nicholas Wilkinson has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4065	It's not the first time we're discussing the food supply in this room, and it's definitely not going to be the last one either. The provision of food is a central part of the provision of health care to Norwegian women and families. Our goal is for Norwegian women to have a world-class food supply, and that it will be safe and secure to come to the world in Norway. We have to defend the food supply every day. Ultimately, a world-class food supply is about quality, but there are many dimensions that play in terms of both quality measured according to objective criteria and experienced quality. The actual quality is about the sum of this. Many good and important proposals are being promoted in this matter, and I recommend the proposals of which the Labour Party is part. I do not go into each of them, but I will bring forward two themes I believe are particularly relevant in today's debate. Point one: Quality is about more than distance from the supply of food. Point two: Quality is about more than the employees who work there. I'll start with distance. A maternity ward must be close enough and good enough. It is about getting enough qualified staff at all institutions, which has been a challenge over several years. A maternity ward shall have both midwife, gynecologist and anesthesiologist, as well as, of course, child nurses and other staff. We have to fill up with new people when today's staff go out with retirement. Fulfilling these roles with staff of retirement age is neither a lasting nor a sustainable solution. I would like to stress that the Labour Party will never compromise the quality of its food departments. It's going to be quality and not economics that decides how we set up the offer. Women in Northern Ireland will receive a new food offer at Health when the new common hospital is ready. Until then, Stortinget has promised them that the maternity ward in both Kristiansund and Molde will be in operation. The government hasn't delivered here, and that's not good enough. Quality is also about predictability, for both the employees and the birthing women. So to the debate that's been going on for the past few weeks. For many women, the experience of safety, predictability and thus quality will be linked to the possibility of having a partner or other companion with them during birth. Therefore, quality is more than the skilled employees who work in the departments. During the pandemic, many women have felt uncertain and insecure because they do not know what framework will be around birth. Now more than 40,000 have signed a requirement that a partner be allowed to be a part of the birth and delivery process. In Denmark, they have solved this with a quickest regime of the birthing and her companion. We need to be able to do this quickly in Norway as well. I'll come back to solving the proposal when we know what it's going to look like in the end.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4084	All women and children will have good maternity care regardless of where they live in our country. Fortunately, we have it in Norway. Norway is one of the safest countries in the world to be born in. The birthing people are more satisfied than before, and fewer are injured during birth. That we are among the safest countries in the world to be born in, we must take care of. Then we must continue to work to strengthen food supply, which is already well under way by this government. Let me give you a few examples. The requirement for midwifery competence in the municipalities has been reintroduced. It is important to ensure that all women receive good follow-up early in pregnancy. Early follow-up helps to detect risk pregnancy but also provides good support. This requirement has led to an increase in the number of midwifery works in municipalities with about 60 pst. since 2015. It has also been important for the government to improve maternity care in hospitals. In 2019, the Minister of Health and Health set up a rapid selection, including: The midwife association, to look at changes in birth care and consequences for manning and funding systems. The recommendations made by the sample are well-informed by health enterprises to follow up their development plans. The Health Directorate is also well under way to review and revise the guide ‘A safe supply of food’. To sum up, I just have to say that several of the proposals that the Central Party is making today, together with others from the opposition, are already well cared for in the work that the government has been systematically working on for seven years, among others. long-term plans to recruit health businesses and to step up the competences of midwives in municipalities. Since the promotion of this representative proposal, questions have been raised about the food supply in Kristiansund. I would like to comment that Health Mid-Norway has a separate responsibility to assess whether the food supply is safe. I record that there have been challenges in the health company in recruiting professionals, especially gynecologists. The health undertaking considers that it would not have been appropriate to keep the food department open. Work still needs to be done to get enough staff in place to operate it. In conclusion, I would like to say that it is safe to be born under a pandemic as well. Last May, counsellors from the Health Directorate came to know about the possibility of being with the partner during birth also during the pandemic. I would also like to say that much of the intention of the Progress Party's loose proposals on fast-moving is something you could have looked at more closely. I understand that it will also be relevant to change the solution that has been promoted, which the government parties will also be prepared to support.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4105	Pregnant women need safety in pregnancy – the security of a good supply of food to them, the security of proper follow-up of pregnancy, and guidance through the process. I would like to say today that I am disappointed that the Minister of Health has allowed the closure of the maternity ward in Kristiansund. It's really not to believe. Last year I was visiting Molde and Kristiansund to see the hospital and the health service there. The construction of a new hospital for North Moravia and Romesdal has been a long process, and many have looked forward to a new hospital. I'm recording that the contract has been terminated and that $600 million. kr that has been used for planning, does not seem to lead the population closer to a new hospital. It is a very special matter in itself and deserves more attention in the future. But I have never understood the intense zeal of the government and the Workers' Party to shut down the maternity ward in Kristiansund. It has been decided that after SNR, Sjukehuset Nordmøre and Romsdal, there will still be a clinic in Kristiansund. There is both a basis and a need for a continued maternity ward in Kristiansund, even after the SNR is finished, whenever it is. The Progress Party, the Center Party and SV have always agreed that the Kristiansund Food Department should be maintained – sentence! It is important to ensure the safety of the natives, not only in Kristiansund, but in surrounding municipalities that have a long route. In the debate last year, the Labour Party refused to participate in ensuring the security of these services, and it became a compromise decision that the Kristiansund Food Department should be maintained until the SNR is completed. SNR is not finished in any way. It's a land mine, but there's not even a contract for expansion that's in progress. So Health More and Romesdal choose to lay down the maternity ward in Kristiansund – completely contrary to the decision of the Stortinge, and the Minister of Health accepts it. It won't last. The Minister of Health now blames the fact that it is not professionally sound to maintain the maternity ward, and this may be the case, but then you have to go back and look at what has been done to ensure a professionally sound offer, and do something about it. I understand that it is difficult to recruit health professionals to a hospital that is chronically decommissioned. Here the Workers' Party must also take some responsibility. When the Workers' Party votes against the proposal of the Advance Party to continue the Kristiansund maternity ward, even after the SNR has been completed, when the Workers' Party secures a majority with the government to promise to shut down the maternity ward in a few years, they have contributed to that uncertainty. The Progress Party therefore encourages a new proposal to ensure that a fully-fledged maternity ward in Kristiansund becomes part of the future hospital structure in More and Romesdal. The working party will be given the opportunity to support this proposal again. I also look forward to a thorough explanation from the Minister of Health why the Kristiansund Food Department is now closed, and what he has done to avoid it, how he intends to follow up the majority decision of the Storting last year, and how he intends to follow up the majority decision today. The Progress Party has also seen a lot of concern in pregnant women who are not allowed to bring the partner in pregnancy follow-up and birth. We have, together with the Right, Left and Christian People's Party, promoted a loose proposal in the matter and will come back to it in a new post.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4124	The representative Åshild Bruun-Gundersen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4129	In March 2020, the Health Directorate published a report on food supply, funding and staffing. The report showed serious findings for hospitals, municipalities and follow-up services. The needs for competence and resources in maternity and maternity care are now documented. The report had a number of recommendations, and now it's all about following up. It has been a long struggle to get the Minister of Health to present such a report. Without clear professional organisations for a few years calling for warning about scarce staffing, short bedtime and lack of follow-up service, and without birthing women and families who have stood up, we probably would not have had such a review. Unfortunately, we find that today there is a lack of political will from the government party to address the serious situation in maternity care in Norway. For seven years we have heard the brilliance that Norwegian maternity care is best in the world, and that it is safe to give birth in Norway. Of course it is. But the fight is about securing that it will be like this in the future as well. The addition has extended a long time. Birth has accepted a lot. Barrier services are particularly damaging. The government and the health minister had been wise to listen to the opposition and propose our manning situation, education, follow-up service and time in maternity wards. But the government has not listened. Undertakings have been allowed to run their efficiency cycle, but now it has to be enough. When the quality requirements for maternity care came in 2010, a professional recommendation was made that women should have midwifes with them in the active phase of birth. Why has the government not secured and manned the food departments, so that this could actually happen? The investigation of the midwifery unit has shown that 200 midwives at the main women’s clinics are now considering stopping due to high work pressure. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV are in this setting some of the nine proposals, which do not get multiples. But the proposals are important, because they signal a different direction – a birth and maternity care that takes seriously the needs of birthing women: increasing staffing as an emergency service, ensuring one-to-one care in active birth, stepping up midwifery skills in the municipalities, whole and permanent settings, increasing educational capacity and practice areas, long-term recruitment plans in all health care providers, the legal obligation of health care providers to provide follow-up services, moving away from input-driven funding and moving on to a new funding model that promotes quality, and giving all maternity women the right to stay in maternity care the time it normally takes to establish breast-feeding. Early printing should be a woman's own choice. We want a close and decentralised food supply. With that, I take up the proposal of the Center Party and the proposal we have with the Labour Party and SV, and I draw myself up for a new post about Kristiansund and the maternity ward there.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4144	The representative Kjersti Toppe then brought up the suggestions she herself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4150	In Norway, we have good birth care, but we always have to work to improve it, and precisely to improve it, a rapid-working sample has been reduced that, together with the Federation of midwives and the Norwegian midwife association, looks at changes in birth care and consequences for staffing, selection criteria and the funding system. In Norway, we have good guidelines and frameworks for the service to be provided to the population, but these we must also always work to improve. Being a parent is the greatest thing in life and the most pervasive experience. Feeling safe in this is absolutely necessary for a good experience, and an important contributor to feeling safe is competent professionals. We need that to make sure that new parents and newborns are well cared for at the start of their lives. But competent professionals are not, as you know, something that just shows up out of the blue. Training needs to be organised, practical places available and workplaces must be attractive everywhere. Both in Oslo and in Kristiansund, it is important that secure services are focused and that services ensure sufficient personnel to ensure patient safety. I am pleased that there is a work going on looking at a minimum standard of manning and qualifications, so that these important offers are safe for those who are going to use them. With the model we have today, health companies are making these assessments. By educating more midwives, reviewing and following up the recommendations of the professional community and creating attractive jobs throughout the country, we must ensure a safe and sound supply of food to the entire population of Norway, regardless of where they live.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4163	The government should have three key listening posts in terms of maternity and maternity care. It's the staff of the hospitals, the Bunads guerrilla and the maternity revolt. Pregnant women have been given more and more access to food because health care businesses, with the blessing of changing governments, have laid down maternity wards and maternity wards in local hospitals. It is not so strange that the plans for the closure of the maternity wards create major protests. It's twice as high a risk of life-threatening complications when it's over an hour's journey to food. A closure of the maternity ward in Kristiansund will give women in Aure, Halsa and Smøla a journey of up to three hours. This is to plan for increased risk. What we need is a decentralised food supply with both enough capacity and staffing throughout our country. Red is crystal clear: we support and want to maintain and secure a fully-fledged maternity ward in Kristiansund. The smallest government can now do is follow the decision of the Storting and ensure that the food department is not closed now. Here the great crowd and the government must listen to the Bunads guerrilla. It is this way, as in other women's dominated professions, that the people in the maternity wards experience a high level of labour pressure, poor basic staffing and a lot of involuntary part-time. Only every fourth midwife is offered a full-time job after completion of education, although 67 pst. of them want to work full time. Market management of hospital operations undermines professional environments and working conditions and reduces patient safety. This is where Stortinget must listen to the employees. When several women are given a longer route to the food supply, the accompanying service is a minimum of the supply that needs to be in place. The current requirements for accompanying services must be followed up. Red is for an improvement so that the follow-up service limit becomes one hour. Obstetrics were down priorities before the pandemic, and it has been even more demanding now for women who give birth. Instead of getting help and support from anyone who needs it, more people have had to pay privately to cover for the lack of offers. Not everyone has that possibility. The public must ensure continuity in the provision of maternity, maternity and maternity care. Red is with the Bunads guerrilla, the employees, the trade union movement and the riot. We are in favour of strengthening the provision of food and maternity care and not the deterioration that we now see.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4178	We have good birth care, and we need to take care of it and improve it. The proposal for a representative has made a number of proposals to ensure safe maternity and midwife care throughout the country. I believe that most of these measures are well-managed through National Health and Hospital Plans 2020-2023, through guides and national professional guidelines, missions to the health regions and the Health Directorate and the designation of grants for midwifery in the municipalities. I am concerned that we have working conditions in the food establishments that provide a good basis for recruiting and retaining doctors, midwives and other personnel groups. Last year I received the Health Directorate's report on maternity care. It emphasises that Norway is one of the safest countries in the world to be born, but that there is an increased proportion of risk patients among those who are born. It imposes new requirements on the competence and resources of food institutions, and I have followed this up with assignments to the health regions and the Health Directorate. The fact that we've followed up in the middle of the coronary apathy also shows that this is something we clearly prioritize. It is safe to feed in Norway. However, I agree that there is a particular need for more midwives in the municipalities. Through the grant to health and school health services, the number of midwives in municipalities has increased considerably. For 2021, we've earmarked 60 million. NOK in grants for this purpose. From 2018, the government reintroduced the legal requirement for midwifery competence in the municipalities, which the red-green government had removed. With closer follow-up of pregnant women, we can capture multiple pregnancies with complications and pregnancies where there is a risk that the birth will happen quickly and unexpectedly. That's also one of the reasons why we focus on increasing the number of midwives in the municipalities. This is also how we ensure women with long distances to the birthplace better, as a result of midwife. I notice that the committee has a proposal, which is supported by a majority, on the supply of food in North Moravia and Romesdal. Health company Health Møre and Romsdal have recently decided that, for reasons of soundness, they see the need to temporarily pool the supply of food in Northern Ireland and Romesdal to the hospital in Molde. The previous decision of the Stortingen on the maternity ward at the hospital in Kristiansund was followed up in the corporate meeting with Health Mid-Norway on 10 June last year. At the same time, as I have also stressed several times to the Stortinget, the requirement of soundness of service provision must be met. This is a legal requirement, and the responsibility lies with the management of the hospital. I have noticed what is likely to be the decision of the Storting, and will of course follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4191	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4196	There has been a great deal of commitment in the last days and weeks to pregnant women during the pandemic and the need for safety and predictability in order to bring a partner or other companion with you during birth. The Minister of Health on TV 2 yesterday gave positive signals, so I wondered if the Minister of Health could say anything about these two solutions that are now on the table, and the possibility of actually using rapid tests to ensure that the partner or other companion gets involved in birth and childbirth, or whether there are other solutions that can also be possible. The most important thing for us – we are behind a loose proposal – is to bring with us the security you need and to ensure the protection of infection, whether it is by the fastest or another method.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4201	First, I would like to stress that I did not answer this on TV 2 first, but in Stortinget, in the Questionnaire, to a question from the Progress Party. There I also said that we have given a mission to the Health Directorate, which involves both being able to assess the use of the rapidest in hospitals – in order to ensure what I fully agree with, namely that there is a great advantage to whether the partner can be as present as possible, both during birth and during pregnancy checks – and also to look at the use of vaccines in those who work in food departments. For some places we see that there have been very strict visiting rules, although there has not necessarily been a high level of infection in that community, but then it is often justified that the maternity ward, for example, is very vulnerable because there is a long way to go to the next maternity ward if it comes in. And in such a situation, I believe that e.g. prioritisation of vaccines for the staff of the maternity ward could be a way of addressing the challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4206	Then we have learned that there are more than rapid tests that can be part of such a regime, which ensures the safety of the food departments. I want to address something quite different related to the matter that we are discussing today, and it is about staffing at the maternity wards. Even I live in Akershus, and the maternity ward at Ahus is one of the food departments that have reported the greatest pressure, and over half of the midwives have said that they consider stopping because of the high labour pressure. At the same time, the League of Midwives also points out that they do not experience any change in the practice of actual staffing in the maternity wards, despite the fact that there has been a mission related to it. Can the Council of State give an updated status on where we stand? When can the midwives – and not least the natives – expect the labour pressure to be lower, the manning to increase?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4215	I expect the hospitals to follow up on the assignment they have received from me in this area, which is a result of the working group that we have had. This may have been — and is — a problem, especially in some of the larger food departments. For some of what has happened, although the number of births in Norway has unfortunately not increased significantly — and thus one might think that the conditions were unchanged in the maternity wards — we see that a greater proportion of the births are at risk and require closer follow-up, both in the front and during and after birth. This has increased the pressure on not least the large food departments, to which this type of birthing is also being selected, and therefore it is important to improve the manning situation there. This is now given as a mission, and I expect health regions to report this in feedback, and I will follow it up further.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4224	In the spring of 2020, we discussed the birth structure of More and Romsdal, and the Stortinget decided that we wanted to continue the maternity ward in Kristiansund after the hospital Nordmøre and Romsdal, SNR, had finished. On this occasion, the Minister of Health, as well as the Director of the Health Business, chose to clarify that the decision did not thwart professional soundness, indicating in many ways that both the Minister of Health and the Director himself had an idea that it could come at a time when the Food Department had to be laid down for the sake of professional soundness. I noticed that the department was closed and planned to be reopened later. What measures are the Minister of Health and the Director now taking to ensure professional safety in the event of recovery, which could not have been put in place by May 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4229	This was started to work on – or you had started working on it before – after the assignment I gave after the Storting decision, and Health Møre and Romsdal have worked hard to recruit professionals. They have succeeded, and I am very pleased about that, but the challenge is that although they have managed to get professionals, there have also been some professionals who have quit and e.g. retired during the same period. They have also gone a long way to comply with the Storting decision by, among other things. changing the maternity wards between Molde and Kristiansund, but finally, a situation was found in which it was assessed locally that this was no longer proper. It was after close cooperation with the employees and the trustees. It is a decision and a responsibility of local management. I feel that they are still working hard to follow up my assignment, namely to have a food supply in Kristiansund until the new hospital is finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4234	In 2015, there was one case in the control committee here at Stortinget regarding the violation of the Health Business Act in connection with the construction of a new hospital in Nordmøre. I was the case rapporteur and learned how the system works in practice, through precise documentation. There was a distinction between the formal decision in the health enterprise and the actual decision in the ministry. When the Council of State did not get what he wanted, the councillor asked Styve Holte in Health Mid-Norway to dismiss the managing director in Health Mid-Norway. It was a violation of the law, and it was proved because Styve Holte said from the public. It's unique. She was quickly replaced by another. Now it is about the closure of the food supply in Kristiansund. Formal is the Executive Director of the undertaking that has taken the decision. In fact, it has been taken by the Council of State, as practised under the Health Business Act today. I would ask the Council of State to comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4242	I find almost nothing of what the representative said, correct, so that's my comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4247	We know that we get a majority in order for the government to follow up the decision to have the maternity ward in Kristiansund, and that they will have the necessary professional and financial resources. It is important for SV also to look at Molde hospitals. I would like a confirmation from the government – and I hope the government will follow the decision – that it will not hit the Molde Hospital and the maternity ward in Molde.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4252	It's an incredibly important perspective the representative addresses. I will take it with me in the business meeting that I must of course have with Health Mid-Norway if the Stortinget makes this decision today, and state that it is important to make sure that you do not risk that it is not a professionally sound offer in the North-Møre and Romesdal region. It was one of my concerns if the follow-up to the decision of the Storting had led to such a pressure to reopen in Kristiansund, that it had been risked that it might be professional in both Molde and Kristiansund, that the whole North Sea and Romesdal had remained standing without a good food supply. It's a very important perspective the representative addresses, which I'm going to follow up at the corporate meeting that I'm going to have, if the Storting decides.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4257	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4264	For many of the inhabitants of Northern Ireland, the Trust in the Storting is at stake in these matters, for the Storting is not an advisory, but a legislative and running authority. Through the National Health and Hospital Plan and through the leadership of the Stortinget, we have laid the framework for the kind of health care that our citizens will have throughout the country. It's not advisory, it's clear leads, and with those leads, it's also budgeted and funded so that hospitals can provide a decent health supply anytime a cage. When the health institution then, contrary to the decision to lay down the food supply in Kristiansund, it increases both the concern and the insecurity of many births and their families in the North Moravia, but it also suggests that there are great question marks in the legitimacy of decisions taken at this house. It's a situation we can't have, it's a situation that doesn't make sense, and it's a situation we need to clean up. It is not surprising that recruiting staff to a hospital that the majority of people in this room will not have to have a reasonable health supply for the birthplace in Kristiansund, even after building a new common hospital. The current situation of the inhabitants of More and Romesdal is that one for n-th time – for n-th time – the plans for the construction of a new hospital and, in the meantime, a functioning food supply for the inhabitants of the North Sea are being abandoned. This is not to be tolerated, and it must be grabbed to clean up. It is in the utmost consequence the government's responsibility to take care of this, and I found it positive that the Minister of Health said he would follow it up after the decisions that are coming today. But the Workers' Party has contributed through its arrangements today to keep the foundation of the insecurity up, just as they did the last thing this case was for treatment. Then we said from here that we were going to end up in this situation because one does not guarantee a long-term supply to the inhabitants of Kristiansund. Once again, the Workers' Party will fail when the North-Møre inhabitants need them the most. But that doesn't mean that we can give up the fight for a good and functioning food supply in Kristiansund, and I hope that our proposals will be approved today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4273	For nurturing women in the North Moravia, it was thought that the maternity ward was secured by a decision in the Stortinget last year. Today, two weeks after the maternity ward was closed, we know that we have not succeeded in getting enough professionals to maintain the offer. For the Workers' Party, it is important to repeat the Storting's will: it is the government's responsibility to ensure an offer where the Stortinget has decided that it will be an offer, and we hold the Minister of Health responsible for the closure of the Food Department. We in the Workers' Party also know that a maternity ward must have professionals, and we do not want to overdo the professional responsibilities of dedicated professionals locally. In the last year, employees at birth, both in Kristiansund and in Molde, have gone a long way to offer a professionally sound offer to women who are born on the North Sea and in the valley of Rome. Employees have worked compressed, with high weekly metals, during the period of alternating operations, and of course this has led to a heavy burden for employees. I will commend the employees, both in Kristiansund and in Molde, for having been in this difficult situation for a long, long time. The effort must now be made to maintain the professionals in the region, and then you must recruit for what you need in a global food/gyn supply in the North Moravia and in the Romsdal region. There is a lack of gynecologists, but there is also a lack of midwives. According to the Nursing Association, there are 250 vacant midwife positions in Norway today. The National Auditor is clearly judging the government's efforts to train more specialist nurses. The candidate goals of the government itself have not been achieved, even in the years that the representative Dale, who had spoken before me, was put in government. Now it's got to be secured by professionals. The new hospital needs professionals, and we need a good, comprehensive offer for the activity to be both new hospital and in Kristiansund, also in the future. There should be gynecologists in Kristiansund in the future, there should be a daily offer there, and it's about getting this in place. I'll warn you not to use whips on the professional community that are now left in Molde. It will be a short-term strategy. I see that several parties are in charge of ordering employees from Molde to Kristiansund. That's what I'm worried about can lead to a collapse of the entire trade union environment. And where are we? New rounds in Stortinget and the mouth of the Minister of Health will not help the natives of North Moravia.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4284	The formal decision to close the maternity ward in Kristiansund has been taken by Managing Director Bakke in Health Møre and Romsdal health care companies. The actual decision has been taken by the Council of State Höie. This is how we know that the Health Business Act is being practised in conflict-affected cases. Why is that? Hospitals are owned and run by the Council of State on behalf of the State. The Management Board of the Regional Health Enterprise is appointed by the Council of State and the Regional Health Enterprise appoints members of the Board of Health Enterprise. The Health Council shall receive its powers from a majority of the Stortinget. The majority of the Stortinget have decided that the maternity ward in Kristiansund is in operation until the maternity ward in the new Health Hospital is in operation. How, then, could it be that the Executive Director went against the Storting decision and closed the maternity ward from 8 February? Did not the Chief Executive know of the Stortinge decision? Of course he did. Didn't the board know he had done it? Of course they did. Yet it happened. There is only one answer: the overall authority therefore had to go well, allow, that the decision of the Storting was broken. Governments accepted the closure. The assumption was that it was not proper to maintain the food supply, and the council probably believed that the Stortinget would give him back coverage for a decision other than what the Stortinget has made. The work of the Bunadsgerilja, which, together with other good forces, has been so strong, has led to the government council now not having a majority on the Stortinget, as he did not have the last time either. I've been through this before. The food department at Kongsberg was immediately shut down after an incident. The company Vestre Viken had not done its job. After political pressure it came up again, seamsily because the Vestre Viken had to provide the enterprise's department at Kongsberg with the necessary resources. It became a safe offer, and it lives in the best of luck. It's a safe, good, well-recognized offer today. I am very pleased with today's majority vote on the maternity ward in Kristiansund. The Center Party, the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and SV instruct Health Middle to ensure the operation of the maternity ward in Kristiansund, i.e. do not shut down temporarily. Once it has been done, it must be opened as soon as possible. Furthermore, Health More and Romesdal HF must be allocated the necessary professional and financial resources to ensure the proper operation of the Kristiansund Food Department and to provide adequate information to the Stortinget. To that I would like to add one thing: this must not go beyond the food supply in Molde. It's not supposed to affect the food supply in Molde. The company has had plenty of time to follow up the Storting decision. They haven't done it, and now the Council of State has to make sure it happens. One must use the total resources available to Health-Norway to implement the Storting decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4295	It's a pandemic, and we know it's demanding, but I'm really sad to see thousands of women now being deprived of the opportunity to have their partner on these important and big experiences you have when you're pregnant. I never think I had accepted a message from the hospital saying that my husband was not allowed to attend the birth until the very end, but had to sit in a parking lot and wait until the birth was so far in progress that he could be allowed to join. I had never accepted that. Father is an equally important person in the child's life as its mother is. Bringing a child to the world is a great experience. The strict interpretation of infection prevention measures that deprives people of the opportunity to be on everything from early ultrasound to hearing the child’s heart beat for the first time, being together with his or her loved one at birth and bonding with his or her child from the very beginning cannot be corrected in the future. Losing that opportunity will be a loss for life. The progress party believes that the pregnant women and their partners must be allowed to experience this together. I'm upset that infectious health assessments make everyday life, birth and pregnancy so difficult for many pregnant women and their partners now. The party of progress doesn't accept that, and that's why we've had dialogue with the government parties over the last few weeks to see if we can change it. We see movement, and I'm glad of that. One of the solutions that has come up today is this with the fastest. With the ability to test both mother and father with a fastest for the corona, you also know whether they are infected or not, and it will increase the possibility for father to be involved in maternity care. If one of the parties has a positive corona test, it also allows for other measures, such as: priority for vaccinated midwives or others. The most important thing for us is not the formulation of a decision, but that this is being cleaned up and looked at, so that pregnant women out there can be sure that they are also allowed to have with their partners in the most important part of their lives, and that both get the opportunity to bond with their children. We have had a dialogue with the government parties on our loose proposal, proposal No. 13, and I made a rewording of what was sent in an appropriate way, so it should be clear. But I'll read it out: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that rapid tests can be used in hospitals in order to better facilitate the partner’s participation in the follow-up to pregnancy and in childbirth and maternity.’ This is not an exclusive measure, other measures obviously also need to be decided, but we believe that rapid tests should make it easier for partners to be born, and that means much to thousands of pregnant women and their girlfriends.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4315	The representative then presented the amendment to the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4320	On 8 February, the doors of the Kristiansund maternity ward were closed, despite the fact that last year the Stortinget in the National Health and Hospital Plan decided that the Kristiansund maternity ward would be in place until the new common hospital was in operation. The natives of Smøla now get three hours of travel. The Central Party believes that the maternity ward in Kristiansund is going to be part of the future supply, and we don't want to be on a proposal to shut down the maternity ward in the long term, as the majority will. The serious thing is that the closure of the Kristiansund maternity wards in February was done without the one-time administration, it was an administrative decision. The fact that a managing director can ignore a decision made by elected representatives in the Norwegian National Assembly shows the health agency’s true face. The argument behind the shutdown was now a recruitment failure, but this was notified by the health service. The Health Agency’s ROS analysis for the interim phase for the construction of a new common hospital concluded that an important premise for maintaining the professional environment and competence of the new hospital was to strengthen the cooperation between Kristiansund and Molde with the aim of building up functions to be passed on in the new hospital – not to lay down departments that are still to be manned in a new hospital. The ROS analysis warned against the risk of serious recruitment failure if one did not actively engage. And that's what's happened. The health department did the very opposite of what was recommended in the ROS analysis. This year the Health Service has been working towards the goal of shutting down the maternity ward in Kristiansund, that is the truth, and in good time before the new hospital should be completed. The entity took a decision at the Governing Board meeting in March 2019 to close the maternity ward. This was converted into a board meeting one month later, but decided not to shut down indefinitely. This is a good prescription for recruitment failure. If you wish to see a failure in recruitment, please decide clearly and clearly that this section will be brought down as soon as possible. A recruiter as a fortifier. Health professionals have created a great deal of uncertainty, which of course has ruined our recruitment. The worst is the variable argument used by the enterprise. First, an economy used as an argument. One would save money. So quality was used as argument. This led to a mistrust of the trade union director in Kristiansund because it was wrong. Now the argument is recruitment. The Managing Director in the media has admitted that historically it has not been done enough to secure recruitment. The same admission should have been made by the Minister of Health today. Now it's his job to make sure that Storting's decision is implemented. We actually have to do this. There's something else we can't accept.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4333	What we're witnessing here today is a Progress Party trying to ride two horses at the same time. In fact, it is not this government that has decided that the new common hospital should be on the Hill. It was decided by the Right-Fremskritsparte-Registration at the time it was a pure Right-Fremskritsparte-Registration. The fact that the representatives from the Progress Party are trying to play the bottleneck points out with the Workers' Party here today does not relieve them of the responsibility for the decisions they made when they themselves were in government. With regard to the proposal that father, partner or other companion should be present at birth, as many have expressed is important in this Chamber today, I would first of all like to thank the representative Kjersti Toppe for taking the initiative to gather the opposition around a common proposal. Now it is the case that the Progress Party has rather chosen to promote another proposal and has now adjusted it in consultation with the government parties. The Labour Party will support that proposal subsidiaryly, but primarily vote in favour of the solution of the proposal that we ourselves are behind. I believe that Norwegian women now expect us to find solutions together, that together we contribute to the predictability and security they need. There are many who have wanted to be both the mother, father and child-helper of the proposal here today, but this is not about us, this is about the pregnant women, and once we have taken the decision that gets a majority behind it, it gives a safer, better and more predictable pregnancy and birth for these women and families.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4345	I just want to say thank you for the cooperation in the committee. It's a little strange, because I don't have children, but I've been talking and working with more people, and there's more in the committee who have children. It is so important that everyone has the security to get good maternity care in Norway, and that the partner can also be involved, for which we get a majority. We talk a lot about which places the maternity ward is going to be. Then it's very important for SV to say very clearly: it's not just the place that's important; it's the people who make a good supply of food. We need more midwives. We need more nurses. And many of them only have part-time jobs or temporary jobs. We need full and regular jobs to get even better food supplies in Norway. Of course, SV will vote in favour of the proposal we have promoted together with the Central Party and the Labour Party, that the partner can join in, and we will vote in favour of the Progress Party proposal. It was a rather strange suggestion of just the fastest, but it was a good answer from the Health Minister to the Workers' Party's questions in the change of lines. Then we can vote for it because the Minister of Health has said that there will be several other measures to put it in place, that it should be good and follow the infectious diseases councils. It is a little sad, because the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV have tried to cooperate with the Advance Party, sent messages and e-mails, but they are just trying not to respond. It's kind of childish at Stortinget. I hope that we can all, all the parties, work together to get good suggestions for people who need help, when we're going to make decisions on the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4356	The President would point out that ‘childish’ is not to be regarded as a good parliamentary expression and would ask the representative to take note of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4361	I want to commend many of those who have worked in hospitals and in health care in the last year, who have gone very far to make sure that you can be together in critical phases of life, whether it's about birth or anything else. It's important to remember that you've done a good job. I also think that you have been quite clear through the pandemic on the part of the Health Minister and the Health Directorate and brought with you guides to ensure that you are together just during birth. I think the proposal by the representative Åshild Bruun-Gundersen referred to, to find good solutions for example. I just want to stress that we support it on the part of the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4368	Kjersti Top has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4373	There is no reason in the world for one to experience too much recruitment failure to be able to maintain the Kristiansund maternity ward. This is a created recruitment crisis. The positive thing is that education grants have now been awarded to midwives. We can read about that in the media. The last time that happened to Kristiansund was in 2012. You can think about what this is actually saying. It's no wonder we're there with the recruitment failure of midwives when there's nothing more to recruit. There have been no educational grants for midwives in Kristiansund since 2012. We now expect the Council of State to take seriously the decisions taken by the Storting and not to make the previous decision and let it go almost a year before he asks how the decision has been followed up. When it comes to the loose proposal on the parties present, we will also vote subsidiaryly for the Progress Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4382	The representative Åshild Bruun-Gundersen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4387	Yes, the Progress Party is for the construction of SNR. In total, there will be better services of the coordinated offer, and there has also been a strong local desire. The food department is not one of the services that should be coordinated in the SNR, but is maintained in the two already existing locations in Molde and Kristiansund. The Workers' Party is convinced that the food departments must be coordinated in the SNR. That's the political difference here. They ride two horses. With regard to the solution of this proposal, I agree that if we had been given the opportunity to take a thorough comitology of this issue, this would have been easier. We in the Progress Party sent a question to the Questionnaire last week. The debate and the change of lines with Minister of Health Bent Höie yesterday decided our outcome of that question. There is no political disagreement here. Fortunately, it seems that everyone agrees that women will have the opportunity to have with their partners when they are born and in maternity care. Unlike SV, I do not think it is sad, but it is very uplifting that we agree on it. It is not the wording of decisions here that will decide, but the Minister of Health's perception of what was wanted in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4394	There are a lot of future parents who have been in a difficult situation in the last year – mothers who have been very scared and insecure because they are going to be born and don't know how much support they can get from their partner, and fathers who haven't experienced the greatest thing in life, becoming a father and being there for the birthing. Actually, I would like to start by saying a thousand thanks to all those who have engaged in this matter. There have been many voices that have pushed hard to make the change that we see now. The political situation in this matter is quite different today than it was a week ago. It is thanks to those who have stood up in the media, those who have made sure that there has been a debate on this, I feel that the government parties are finally coming after and saying that yes, it is important that we ensure that our father or co-mother is brought into the maternity ward, and that we should go further to provide the necessary tools, for example. rapid tests, which have been mentioned. I expect you to do everything you can, whether it's about vaccinating the staff in the maternity ward or offering rapid tests, so that no one has to feed alone, be on maternity unnecessarily alone, or go through another type of follow-up in maternity alone. Me and the Center Party have been afraid that the challenging situation that these families have faced would lead to other problems for society and for the individual. This day we got a confirmation of it, when we got numbers that showed a marked increase in mental health problems in young women and in births under the pandemic. We cannot have infectious measures that are both incomprehensible to people and apparently contribute little to limiting coronary infection, and at the same time lead to an increase in mental health disorders in this vulnerable group. We have to take that seriously. For the Central Party, it doesn't matter which proposal gets the majority, as long as it's a proposal that makes a difference, and we're therefore going to support the proposal that the Progress Party is now promoting, subsidiaryly, as well as, of course, voting for our own.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4405	I just had to explain, because Åshild Bruun-Gundersen thought I was sad that we'd get a majority. I'm very happy that we get to a majority, but to me it's a little sad that people don't respond to messages and emails. It's a little difficult to work at Stortinget. So it's just a advice that maybe you can also cooperate with other parties to get a better policy for people in Norway. I am very proud that I am the case rapporteur for this matter. We know that now we get a majority so that the partner can join in when the woman is born. It can be a man, but also a co-mother, who is important. It's a majority to protect Kristiansund and have a maternity ward there. I am very pleased that the Minister of Health answered my question that Molde and the birth department in Molde should not be hit by this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4414	The hospital war on Nordmøre is a serious matter, but in any serious matter it is also very positive. What is the positive in this case? Well, it's that when the matter becomes so clear, when the system and how it works become so clear, it will lead to more people getting involved, more people getting involved in what's going on in the world. So there's a very strong public information in what's going on here. There will be a very general knowledge of how the Health Business Act works. It'll be almost the people's island in the area around Kristiansund and on the North Sea. Most people understand that what's being said, and what's being done, is two different things, one understands that something is wrong. Thus there will be a discussion about two things: how to organise power in hospitals and how to finance investment in hospitals. Today it is that the power of the hospitals is maritimely linked to the governments, and the governments are not elected by people, the governments are appointed by the Council of State, and they represent the Council of State. If you don't represent the state council, you don't have anything on the board to do, so you're replaced. The will of the people, which was supposed to be represented in the governments, is not going to happen, and so there will be demonstrations. Therefore, support for the proposal of the Centre Party is increasing that health business boards should be chosen by and among elected representatives, who must be responsible for their actions in elections. Corresponding to funding: Today we have a system of large investments taken by the operating budget of hospitals. We don't have it like that in other areas. This leads to an increase in the cost of hospitals in any major investment, which means that the second offer must be reduced. We need to have a national health and hospital plan where one clarifies the large functional distribution and the large investments, and where the investments are taken as a separate item, and not at the expense of the operating budget. It's a pleasure that any such conflict has something positive about it. People are being informed, and there will be a discussion about the future of the Health Business Act. The center party is at the head there, along with other allies, and I'm very pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4427	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4445	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4452	I would first like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter. Patient travel is an area many are affected by, and there has been good involvement in the matter from both individuals who will tell their history, and from organisations that make contact. There is little doubt that everyone wants the patient's best in the first place, but that there are great opportunities, such as: in the digitisation of the service, which will facilitate the work of logistics and implementation both for patients and, in particular, for staff working in this area of healthcare. In this case, the Council of State states that the Directorate of Health has been given the responsibility to review legislation and look at possible changes, which a majority of the Committee points out is important to prioritize and speed up. The majority of the Committee also points out that there are too many individual pathogens showing how difficult it is for patients to cover real expenditure and that it is perceived as very burdensome at the top of the disease. For the Workers' Party, it is important that this effort to facilitate patient travel and to obtain the cost cover should be given priority. We have repeatedly proposed this, and not least for employees who carry out the work on the implementation and ordering of patient travel. Finally, I note that the government parties in their comments today write that patients can either relate to the fact that the health company is ordering a trip, or that the patient himself orders and then gets it covered. This is a practice that may not be experienced in the country in this way for the individual patient. That choice may not have been well-informed. It shows the examples of those who have contacted us in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4467	The right agrees with the proposers that the patient travel system should have a flexible and transparent regulatory framework. This is not only important for the individual patient, but also for those who are working to obtain the various travels in connection with treatment. We also understand the impatience expressed by the majority in the matter of obtaining benefits, patient-friendly arrangements, regardless of whether the patient has a long or short journey to treatment. Patient travel is an important part of the patient’s health care, and it is important that the patient travel system takes care of the patient in an acceptable and good way. We would also like to point out that the proposals that the representatives of the population Bruun-Gundersen and Strifeldt are promoting here today are the same as the ones that form the basis for the recent studies carried out by the Health Directorate and the regional health companies, which are now followed up by the government. We therefore do not consider it necessary to start a new investigation based on the proposed amendments to the legislation. Furthermore, we would point out that proposals for changes in tariffs are a budgetary matter, which means that they should also be treated as a budgetary matter rather than a proposal for a representative. The right agrees with the opinion of the proposers that there may be a need to amend the legislation and mandate regional health businesses. As it is clear from letters from the Council of State Bent Höie, the government will return to the Grand Duchy in an appropriate way, but, as we have pointed out in committee, we consider the deadline, as soon as possible and by 1 April, for which the majority is now in favour, to be short. I am of the opinion that the Council of State will state in more detail when the government intends to consult, etc., amendments to the patient travel legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4478	I come from a part of the country with great distances, where too many people require a lot of logistics for a simple examination in a hospital. Patient travel is an important part of the patient’s health care, and it is important that the patient travel system takes care of the patient in an acceptable and good way. Today, patient travel has to be recorded on paper or on a digital platform to allow reimbursement of travel expenses. Many people experience this as time consuming and have difficulty understanding what rights they have, and what kind of expenses will be covered. The Head of Department for Patient Travel at the Finnish Hospital explained in 2018 that under the legislation the cheapest route option should be selected. This applies regardless of how long it will take. As a result, a patient from Kautokeino starts at 0 p.m. 5:00 a.m. and I'll be home at 5:00 a.m. 01.00 a.m. In the past, the NRK has revealed examples of patients and their relatives having had a disproportionately long journey to get an examination in a hospital, only on the basis of the cheapest route. A mother and her child were sent by plane and bus for nine hours, and they depended on two nights for a day’s visit to the health service. Another example shows that another mother and her daughter had to travel a total of 17 hours for a 15-minute study. That is what the Progress Party believes is unheard of, and it shows that there is no understanding of the distances it is north of our country. All seven times in 2018, patient transport led to a worsening of the patient’s health status. My stomach feeling and fear is that, unfortunately, it's just the top of an iceberg. Deaths can be measured, but the loss of quality of life and the deterioration of quality of life resulting from this unworthy treatment cannot, unfortunately, be measured or documented. I'm impatient. New patient travel legislation was developed and implemented in 2016. In 2019, the Stortinget government started the evaluation process for the patient travel regulations during August 2019. I record that the work is still in progress, one and a half years later. Therefore, the Progress Party wants to move forward in this work, so that a patient travel order is provided that benefits the patient. With this, I take up the proposal that the Progress Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4497	The representative Bengt Rune Strifeldt has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4502	We have a well-developed health care system in Norway. We have access to complicated and expensive treatments that make life easier, but sometimes this health care system fails on the most banal level, and that's what this case is all about. When seriously ill patients rely more on transport than on studies and treatments, it shows that something is wrong. The patient travel system in health services has met with enormous criticism, largely from all over the country. It's about more relationships. First, it is about the fact that the system for the submission of travel vouchers is still not very user-friendly. Many people who have the right to cover the trip leave easy to submit claims because it becomes too complicated. Secondly, it is about the actual supply. Long waiting times and uninhabitability in supply make patient travel an additional burden for sick patients. In large villages, it's about the fact that the taxi offer is too bad. It's hours to wait, and one is usually seen in taxis with several others, so that the journey home can be two or three times as long as it should be. In the north, there's a problem with a selection of the cheapest airline ticket, so you can sit there and wait for hours at the airport. There are many simple stories that show that people are concerned because they are insecure that this part of the treatment is not good enough. The central party got multiple numbers for a review of the patient travel system, and we've been waiting for some years for the government to bring up a case of improvement. This applies to improvements in patient travel regulations, but it also applies to a review of health care practices and the provision of a defensive patient service. Health professionals are indebted to pursue a practice of supply in this area that leads to social dumping. It is also a problem that, at least in Health Bergen and in my area, the healthcare company has simply not signed an agreement with a taxi company, so that patients have to pay for the journey themselves. The point is that there are some patients who can't afford it. We have now received multiple numbers for a proposal in the setting that all companies must have an agreement with the taxi company, so that the responsibility for patient transportation and payment for it will not be lightened on the sick patients. I have no proposals to raise, but I would say that the Central Party supports proposal No. 2, from SV, in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4517	Those in need of patient transport need to travel to rehabilitation hours, training for rehabilitation and rehabilitation or vital meetings with health professionals. Today's system has not worked well enough. In the case of tenders, it is common for prices to be above quality. We in SV believe that quality should be the most important. I have read about and talked to several people who have received poor quality. Amir, who is a member of the Norwegian Handicap Association's youth, loses the necessary training time due to delayed drivers, and Sissel, who was 87 years old, was asked to take a bus. Only SV propose that if there is to be a tender, there should be competition for quality – not for price. We have a big problem we can fix today. Those in need of health care get patient transportation to and from the institution. It's important that everyone, including those who don't have money, can get the health care they need. We now have an unfair system because when the institution stops completely or partially on weekends, holidays or holidays, the patient has to pay. I've been talking to Wiggo. He needed health care and doesn't have that much resources. He received health care at an institution, but on weekends he had to go home since the institution was closed then. Of course he applied for a patient trip, but he got no. He had to pay from his own pocket. When people are forced to travel, patient travel must pay. I hope the parties will vote in favour of this proposal, so that we can clean up the rules. I am promoting the proposal No. 2 and 3 from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4532	The representative Nicholas Wilkinson has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4537	The patient’s journey is an important part of the patient’s healthcare, as the majority of the committee points out. Everyone agrees that the legislation should be easy to understand for patients and easy to manage for patient travel offices. We are now working on following up Stortingen's 2018 request decision to evaluate the patient travel code and a review of the organisation of the patient travel area. The evaluation shows several improvement points. It is both a matter of facilitating regulatory understanding and simplification that will contribute to automated processes. However, a simpler regulatory framework with automated processes has some challenges. It requires a simple code with no room for discretion. This can in turn contribute to the unfortunate consequences of individual cases. We live in a long country where many people have a long journey to health care, and many depend on cars, ferries or planes to get to and from treatment. Several are also dependent on taxi or other scheduled transport. Many patients are able to cope with interconnection, and many can resist arriving earlier than the scheduled hour and waiting a little before going home, but there are also some patients who have a health situation that makes them unable to travel with others, and for some health reasons it is important that the journey to and from treatment is made as soon as possible. The economic consequences are also part of the big picture. Simplification of legislation too much can have a significant economic impact on health regions if patients’ rights are not to be weakened. As you understand, I am concerned with the same thing as the committee, but we need to find the right balance between a simple regulation and discretionary provision and take into account all the circumstances I have mentioned. That's what we're now working on. I intend to send proposals for changes to the patient travel regulations before the summer. In the revised national budget, I come back to Stortinget with a statement on the follow-up to the request decision from 2018. With regard to the proposal to clarify the health region’s obligation to provide patient transport, there is no such obligation in current legislation. The health undertaking can fulfil its responsibilities either by offering the patient transport services organised and financed by the undertaking or by leaving the patient to arrange the journey itself and to have the expenses reimbursed afterwards. We are well in the process of working on patient travel legislation, the aim of which is a better patient travel system.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4554	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4560	I expect the Council of State is well aware of the distance from Kautokeino when you are going to treatment at the UNN hospital. Then you have a bus trip of 13 miles to Alta, you start at 1:00 p.m. 04.30 from Kautokeino and get flights in the morning to Tromsø. When you have been in for your 15 minutes of treatment, you have to wait until the last flight, at 5 p.m. 22.35, before you're allowed to fly back, because it's a couple hundred dollars cheaper than the planes that fly in the afternoon. The pandemic has actually turned out positive for the patients in the Kautokeino and Alta regions, for now Norwegian has set the plane at 0 p.m. 22.35, so they're allowed to travel with Onions. Can the Council of State promise that travel time can also be taken as a basis, so that this unnecessary wait can be avoided?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4567	It's also among the conditions we're looking at, as I said in my answer. Of course, we also have to take care of the time it takes for patients, and then it has to be balanced towards the economy. It's just where it's hard, because we have to try to find a code that's easy and easy to manage, while at the same time it allows for good solutions and keeping it within some framework. This is the difficult balance we're trying to figure out.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4572	The most reasonable method of travel shall be used and, most often, the bus is the most reasonable method of travel. I have a brother-in-law who has been through a cancer treatment, and it goes forward with him. When he travels to treatment in Tromsø at UNN, he gets covered the bus ticket from the home to the airport. What's the challenge is that there's no bus going on. There's no bus on that route. Can you expect a better solution to be found, that it is the real transport method that can be used in patient treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4577	At least it'll be a very expensive bus if it doesn't go by bus. But there's enough representation that we also have some simplifications in the system, just because in some areas we have some trust-based payments, which are simple, and where there are some rates for kilometers made regardless of whether a driver himself, takes a taxi or takes a bus. That may be what has turned on in this case, but I do not have the opportunity to go into concrete detail on a single trip.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4582	In its observations on Decision II, on the obligation of regional healthcare providers to provide patient transport and to require healthcare professionals to have an agreement with a taxi company, the Council of State said that it was not such an obligation. We have discussed this before, but in the specialist health service law § 2-1 a it says: «The regional health undertaking shall ensure that persons with permanent residence or residence within the health region are provided with specialist health services within or outside the establishment, including transport for examination or treatment in the health and care services». [[...]] And then it says: «Services referred to in the first subparagraph», which I read, «may be provided by regional health establishments themselves or by agreement with other providers.» The point is that one does not provide it itself or enter into an agreement, and that is what the Size now specifies must happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4597	Health businesses can fulfil their responsibilities either by providing the patient with an offer of transport organised and financed by the undertaking or by leaving it to the patients to arrange the journey themselves and to have the expenses reimbursed afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4602	I think it is particularly true when it is explicitly stated in the laws, specifically in the Law on Special Health Services, that ‘services’ – i.e. transport for investigation or treatment – ‘the first subparagraph may be provided by regional health companies themselves, or by agreement with other service providers’, that the Council of State is standing here and says that this is not the case, that health professionals can do so by themselves arranging transport and arranging their own agreement, and that health professionals are not responsible for, as it says in the law, providing transport themselves or by agreement. I wonder if the Council of State intends to follow up Decision II, that one should have an agreement with a taxi company. I'm very dissenting in the interpretation of the law the Council of State has, and I think this is an obligation, and I expect a man to take up Decision II and follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4609	Of course, I will follow up Decision II and come back to Stortingen in an appropriate manner with the follow-up to that decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4614	The Health Minister did not talk about leave, and then I have to read out loud about leave trips. You get leave from treatment, you have to pay for the trip yourself. It is quite ok that people pay this when they decide for themselves, but it also says that leave trips are not covered either ‘when the institution is completely or partially closed for weekends, holidays or holidays’. Does the Council of State think that forced leave should be paid by the patient, and that it is fair?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4621	There are many parts of the legislation relating to the expenditure covered, where one can always discuss whether one should have covered more or less. That's part of the review we have, but finally, there's a priority that's done here in this room. It's not like someone's sitting around and thinking about things to be bad for the patients, it's a regulation, and it's also about priorities and what we want to use the health funds for.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4628	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4636	If you do not have a theme to talk about, you can only mention the word ‘patient travel’ in the north. Then most people will have a story to tell. I can only add that I still have the good news of someone who has had good experiences or is satisfied with patient travels. As I mentioned, the pandemic has actually turned out positive for some of the patients in the north, by not being gone a day for a 15-minute consultation. Patient travel is perceived as extremely low-user-friendly and flexible. As I was in the line change, patient travel covers a bus ticket, even if there is no bus. Transport available should be offered and covered after that. As I mentioned, I have a brother-in-law who has recently been through a treatment at UN, with cancer. He travels in the morning to Tromsø, has four-five consultations and treatments there and gets home in the afternoon. What they experience when they send a travel bill is to get a discount in the first place. They anchor on the refusal without adding any new information, and get support and get paid. But it's one thing that he doesn't get covered, it's diet. He'll have to go for an extra round before he gets it. It seems that patient travel is largely trying to drag people out. Fortunately, these are resource-intensive people who dare to take the bureaucratic struggles against a system that does not work. It's worse with those who may not have resources and opportunities to take those fights. It is, of course, a significant saving for society that many do not get paid, do not get to cover the travel costs that they are entitled to. But that's not right. It's socio-economically well behind targets. There is also a socio-economic background to objectives because the entire working day goes to play because of the short-term vision of health economies, by actually having to spend all working days and, in some cases, two working days using the most reasonable way of travel. The representative from the Right mentioned the possibility to order yourself and then get it covered. With the challenges of getting stuff covered from Patient's travels, I think he's been in little contact with Patient's travels to cover his expenses there.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4657	I just want to state that the Workers' Party supports SV's proposal No. 2 in the case. The reason why it has been a little unclear whether we should be involved in that proposal from the time of delivery is that there are different practices in situations when patients are printed out when institutions close — so if there is something that can also be included in the evaluation that is being carried out. At least we support the SV's proposal today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4662	We have heard a lot from the Strifeldt of the Advance Party about patient travel. But now the Progress Party can change the policy, because now we have heard from the Centre Party and the Workers' Party that they will support SV's proposals. We know that when the institutions close on weekends and holidays, for example. because it is Christmas, sick patients have to pay from their own pocket to come back to the home, and they have to pay the trip back to the institution after Christmas is over. We can get a majority if the Progress Party not only talks, but votes for proposals that can help patients. I hope that the Advance Party agrees a little with SV that it is unfair that patients should pay the trip when it is compulsory leave, that sick patients should then pay off their own pockets, because we know that many of these sick patients do not have much money. I'm afraid someone chooses not to use the health care they need, because they know they have to pay for the trip themselves. Many institutions are not in the center of Oslo, Bergen or Trondheim, so it costs a lot of money. Now it is the responsibility of the Progress Party. If the Progress Party votes in favour of the proposal, we get the majority that no sick patients should pay the journey back and forth when the institution closes in celebrations or weekends. It's compulsory leave. It is the responsibility of the Progress Party to vote in favour or against, and then patients can know what the Progress Party thinks and votes – not just hear the fine words of the Progress Party say from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4671	Patient travel arrangements cases have taken too long. In the opposition, we've addressed this many times, because it's been a big deal out there. There are too many people who insist on using the patient travel system. If you have a frail parent or other relative, there are a lot of people who don't let them travel with the patient travel scheme because it's too insecure. Either you can run them yourself, or you can't actually travel to hours. It's also a part that tells us. Some people use their TT card, even though I don't know if it's actually allowed. This is the situation out, and so it's so desperate to listen to such stories year after year, and that nothing gets better. We have now had so many experiences offering patient travels and taxis in health services, and every time there is a disgust, every time there is a huge burden on sick patients. We do not know all the consequences of this, but it continues – the health care practices continue, and they are finally extended their contracts, even though there are many more complaints. We have many examples from my home country, Health Bergen, who feels like it's been in Oslo, Voss district municipality, which has had a good, stable offer of Voss taxi every year – knows its patients, and is safe from them. Then came a new offer and a leading taxi company, which, when they got the contract, did not have a single car or driver, but they used subcontractors. There were a lot of complaints and absolutely amazing stories about what one had to experience. We can't have it like that in health care. This is not about any of the patients; it is about patients who are entitled to transport because they are ill. There can't be such an unsafe offer. Supply practices in healthcare professionals need to be reviewed. Now I hear the Council of State say this is going to be revised. I have experienced that there has been a training of this, because you have not really wanted to go in and look at the offer practices. But it has to be done if one set of patients first. I don't like to use the term 'patient's healthcare', but I'm going to use it on this occasion: the patient's healthcare service does not have a patient system as it is today, and now it needs to be continued to have a safe patient travel system throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4682	No more people have asked for the word to cause no. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4699	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines with replies will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up to the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4706	The consideration of the Central Party's representative proposal 8:66 S in the Business Committee shows that there is still a bottom-solid and broad majority on the Stortinget to continue the main lines of Norwegian agricultural policy, as they are also enshrined in the Granavolden platform. The main measure to ensure the income base of Norwegian farmers, a varied structure of use and agriculture throughout the country is to maintain a well-functioning import protection for Norwegian agricultural products. The key issue in this case has been how far the Norwegian authorities can and should go in demanding further reductions in duty-free import quotas for agricultural products from the EU in relation to brexit. The proposers will ask the government to negotiate with the EU with a view to reducing duty-free quotas for imports of agricultural products from the EU to Norway as a result of Brexit. They also want to ask the government to reject new negotiations aimed at further liberalising trade in agricultural products under Article 19 or other provisions of the EEA Agreement. The Government Parties and the Labour Party, like the proposers, believe that the proper functioning of import protection is essential for maintaining a viable Norwegian agriculture. Nevertheless, those parties would point out that neither Article 19 of the EEA Agreement itself nor the specific agreement concluded pursuant to the previous Article 19 round provide for the possibility of reducing allowances allocated if one or more Member States leave the Union. It is therefore not possible for Norwegian authorities to adjust the quotas without this being done through the Article 19 negotiations. If Norway requests consultations on the level of import quotas to Norway, the counterparty, the EU, will soon be extended to regular negotiations in accordance with the wording of Article 19 on two-year reviews with a view to further liberalisation. In this respect, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in the event of an incubation, the governmental parties are not part of the Workers' Party's special note on page 2 of the Committee's position, as follows: «The members of the Committee of the Workers' Party indicate that the proposers propose that Norway reject new negotiations under Article 19. These members refer to the obligation on Norway to review trade in agricultural products every two years under Article 19, and these members consider that such a review must form the basis for assessing the need for negotiations.’ This is an important clarification, to which the government parties are fully associated. By virtue of Article 19 of the EEA Agreement, Norway is obliged to review trade in agricultural products every two years, but the Norwegian Government is free to inform the EU that it does not see a need for negotiation on changes to existing provisions on duty-free allowances. A broad majority, consisting of the government parties and the Labour Party, underlines the importance of Norway acting as a responsible and predictable partner to the EU. Requirements from Norway for the renegotiation of duty-free allowances not provided for in the contractual basis could call for a full Article 19 round to be met by the EU. At that time, it is not as simple as Norway being able to put its demands on the table and expect the counterparty, representing the next 450 million inhabitants, to fall short and meet the requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4724	The rapporteur has explained well the comments and positions that the Workers' Party also has and is in this setting. As the rapporteur has said, it is a large, overwhelming majority on the Stortinget – the only exception is the Progress Party – which states that we must have a well-functioning import protection as a supporter of Norwegian agricultural policy. Of course, its resolution will go significantly beyond both primary producers and many important jobs in the food industry. As the rapporteur has rightly pointed out, it has been important for the Labour Party to establish that there is a review of trade every two years, but it is up to the government to assess whether there is a need for negotiations. There is no automation, but that is what is the basis of Article 19. Furthermore, I would like to point out that improvements can also be made in the area of import protection, which we saw for example. during the red-green period, when one went from crown to percentage duty, which provides the basis for important incomes in milk production today. There is also something the Workers' Party is looking at, and that is within our draft Party Programme – whether it is possible to exploit the mechanism of using percentage customs where we enjoy it. With this, the Workers' Party's position in this matter has been thoroughly explained, both by the case rapporteur and with this article. We will continue to fight for the balanced interest in caring for Norwegian agricultural products, and we hope the government will follow up the comment that agriculture needs to be protected as far as possible in future negotiations, of which the government parties are also part.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4735	There could have been logic in the proposal of the Centre Party that when a country leaves the EU, we have access to a smaller market through the agreements, and that the UK quotas for duty-free imports of agricultural products should be deducted. But it had conditional two things: one thing is that the proportion of imports from Britain had been so large that it was natural. The second is that we had an agreement lying there where one party could unilaterally go from part of the agreement. None of these two conditions are present. The agreement we have concluded with the EU does not take account of brexit. Then the experience of changing governments over the last decades is that the EU wants increased market access to Norway for agricultural products. In view of this, it is of little interest to require renegotiation of existing agreements with the EU on trade based on brexit. We must remember that trade in agricultural products between the United Kingdom and Norway has been modest. Imports from the United Kingdom amounted to $2.6 billion. kr in 2018, and total imports from the EU amounted to 45 bn. kr. So the United Kingdom imports were 4 pst. of total trade in the EU. The Government ensures the interest of Norwegian agriculture through well-functioning import protection, bilateral and multilateral trade negotiations. In the forthcoming negotiations with the EU under Article 19, the government will stress that the British are no longer part of the internal market. Norwegian agriculture is well and offensively maintained within the framework we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4744	In debates on market access, free trade, negotiations between Norway and the EU, there is really someone in this room – unfortunately a large majority – who believes that the lua-i-handa strategy is the best. We've managed to tighten up customs protection once in recent years. It was in 2013, when the Senter Party had the Minister of Agriculture and we sharpened the cheese toll. There was a wild insurrection among the right-hand parts of this hall. They would change this before they had hung off the coat, when they came into government. They are still wearing coats – because Stortinget took responsibility. There was a lot of noise, but we ventured, and we stood on it. We had the right to do that, and it's got no other consequences for us than that the agricultural decisions one had in the years after that, wouldn't be possible if it wasn't for the political action that was taken in 2013. Balance was said in an article here, and that's what this is about. When we access the EU market, we pay for it, roughly two things: we pay in the form of EEA funds, and we pay by giving EU tariff-free quotas to Norway on agricultural products. So that's the market access we pay for, and that's why it's going to be completely wrong when Right claims that the proportion of trade between Norway and the United Kingdom affects this case. What affects this case is that we have access to a market that has 70 million fewer inhabitants, and then we say: Yes, but we still have to pay the same. It's the Center Party's disunity. I think we'll have to pay less. There will be a bias in the strength relationship between Norway and the EU. There must be consequences, and that is what our proposal in this matter is about. Then I want to give some praise to the Minister of Agriculture, and that's for the last sentence in the letter we got, where it says: ‘The size may be certain that the government will continue to focus on Norwegian agricultural protection needs in all future negotiations, irrespective of who the counterparty is.’ Yeah, I totally agree with that. But there is a very strong contrast to the fact that the right-wing representatives now travel around, especially in Northern Norway, where they say that we should now give priority to fish over agriculture. So one sells out two bids from the government party. I'm saying that one should accept that Norway has offensive and defensive interests, but it's also not that lua is a good strategy. We need a tough approach to keep Norwegian interests alive. And then I want to bring up the two suggestions that the Center Party shares with SV about.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4760	The representative Geir Pollestad has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4765	Customs protection is a fundamental prerequisite for maintaining agriculture throughout the country. That's why it was important for the Christian People's Party to get into the Granavolden platform that a well-functioning import protection is one of the pillars of government's agricultural policy. We have also shown that in practice. We have negotiated a free trade agreement with Mercosur countries, which is one of the world's largest exporters of beef, without providing a single tonne of increased import quota for beef. The fact that the United Kingdom is leaving the EU does not alter the trade agreements with Norway The EU, neither in agriculture nor in other areas. The agreements have been concluded with the EU, not with individual EU members. Neither Article 19 of the EEA Agreement nor our Exchange of Letters with the EU provide a formal basis for requiring renegotiation of the agreements on the grounds that a country has left the Union. It seems that the proposers expect the EU to accept without delay the reduction of import quotas without setting counterclaims to grant such concessions. The centre party has sufficient government experience to know better. There is reason to recall that this government has granted far less concessions in Article 19 for cheese and meat to the EU than the Senter party did when they last had the Minister of Agriculture. Cheese is the deciduous most sensitive of the five agricultural products where there has actually been trade with the United Kingdom. In the interim trade agreement between Norway and the United Kingdom, the government has used a space for action in WTO legislation to split the EU cheese quota between the EU and the United Kingdom. We have taken 299 tonnes of cheese from the WTO quota to the EU instead of giving the same volume to the United Kingdom. The EU has accepted this. Finally, I will pay tribute to the Workers' Party, which shows a responsibility in this matter. Impairment of import protection, e.g. through demanding Article 19 negotiations with the EU could lead to a reduction in Norwegian food production, both in primary agriculture and in the food industry, as the representative of the Workers' Party said here. This will ultimately affect employment, housing and not least rural activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4778	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4783	In the case of Article 19 negotiations, an agreement has been concluded after them in 2003, 2012 and 2018, and it is produced as yes, but one gave less than what one did before. But it's coming at the top, so this has built up gradually. The majority of the Committee has stressed the importance of assessing the need for new negotiations every two years. Then my question is, Did that assessment make in 2020, or is it such that a person just sits in peace and waits for this?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4790	One has made the assessment in 2020 and is thinking, on the basis of what is now, that we should not give more in a debate with the European Union. One has found that it has been best for our country and for our agriculture that it is on the level it is now, just to take care of agriculture. Because if one opens this ballet without further ado, a few reductions in what we've had to do now, in an EU offer, because they're interested in not giving things to Norway for free. They should also have something back.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4796	Yes, and then I will follow up the same theme: in 2020, was there a demand from the EU for a desire for negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4801	Yes, and then it is that we have been concerned about caring for what was. For what was required was that even more wanted access to the Norwegian market than it has today, and in order to protect Norwegian agriculture, one was to take those negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4806	A new theme and the relationship between fish and agricultural products. I agree, as I said in my post, with what the Council of State here writes in the last paragraph. It is very good, and it is not unusual for a country to have both offensive and defensive interests in this kind of negotiation. But we have also seen that some right-wing representatives have been out in the fishing environment and in North Norway and have said that it is now time to put fish ahead of agriculture. I wonder if the Minister of Agriculture can do well for what the government is thinking about this. Does the government think it's time to put fish instead of agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4811	In Granavolden, it is clear that we are committed to caring for agriculture throughout the country. We are committed to ensuring import protection, we are committed to ensuring customs protection. This means that this government is busy caring for Norwegian agriculture and does not let it go at the expense of anything else, or vice versa.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4816	Then the cord shift is done. The following speakers shall also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4823	The proposal of the Central Party states: ‘1. The government is asked to negotiate with the EU with a view to reducing duty-free quotas for imports of agricultural products from the EU to Norway after Brexit. 2nd@item: inlistbox The Government is asking the Government to reject new negotiations aimed at further liberalising trade in agricultural products under Article 19 or other provisions of the EEA Agreement.» So the background is that brexit has arrived and we have lost a market of 70 million people. The majority of the Committee, members of the Labour Party, the Right, the Left and the Christian People's Party, refer to the letter of the Council of States to the Committee dated 17 December 2020 stating that the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the EU does not alter the agreements concluded by Norway with the EU with regard to trade in agricultural products, including agreements concluded under Article 19 of the EEA Agreement. These are agreements adopted by the Storting. These lots refer to the fact that neither Article 19 of the EEA Agreement itself nor the specific agreement concluded as a result of the previous Article 19 round provide for the possibility of reducing allocated allowances if one or more Member States leave the Union. This is pretty amazing. Here we are losing a market of 70 million people, but should we at the same time maintain the agreements we have with the European Union? What kind of agreements are these? There is no good ‘deal’ for Norway. And then we're like, ‘The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, underlines the importance of strong and effective customs protection in order to ensure Norwegian agriculture throughout the country.’ The Party of Progress indicates that the batch ‘will work in the long term to remove customs protection on agricultural products and other barriers to trade’. The Progress Party believes that customs protection provides high prices for consumers – a view that leads to poorer conditions for Norwegian food producers. When the United Kingdom leaves the EU, the market to which the EEA Agreement gives us access is reduced, with about 70 million people, and no valve in the agreement is available to reduce allocated allowances. It seems to me that this is a bad deal Norway has with the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4846	I just want to attach some comments to the post from the representative Pollestad. He said that there is no need to meet the EU with the lua in his hand. Of course, he is quite right about that, and neither has this government. The Council of State just explained that Norway made it clear to the EU that by 2020 there would be no new Article 19 round. It's interesting about the story. The representative Pollestad reminded us of the history of the introduction of the percentage duty instead of the krone duty. It was the spring of 2013, and I had the pleasure of meeting at Stortinget as an alternate, and the time the Christian People's Party supported the then government in the conversion that happened. Then there was a change of government, and for the next six years, the Christian People's Party was part of the so-called agricultural majority on the Stortinget and therefore ensured that the main lines of agricultural policy were stuck until we entered the government and assumed responsibility for agricultural policy. However, part of the story is that the red-green government also ran an Article 19 round in 2012, where an agreed EU increased the duty-free quota on cheese by 2700 tonnes compared to 1 200 tonnes in the 2018 round. Combined with a very poor agricultural settlement in 2012, the Senter party had to leave the table with an agricultural industry which cannot be said to have been particularly satisfied with what happened in the last part of the government period to the red-greens. We also notice that it is the Center Party and SV that promote the minority proposals in the case. Here it is clear between the lines that the critical attitude to both the EU and the EEA is an underlying factor when a person chooses to run a case like this. Then I think it might be timely for the Senterpartiet and SV to notice that just as there was an agricultural majority in Stortinget, there is also a clear EEA majority in Stortinget, both during this period and in the next. I would also like to commend the Workers' Party for taking a responsible position on this issue and commending the Labour Party leader, Jonas Gahr Støre, for his exemplary ability to put the closet in place in order to signal what the Workers' Party stands for in relation to the EEA.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4857	I need to clarify the lines with Geir Pollestad, where there was a question that the EU had taken an initiative for Article 19 negotiations and negotiations with the EU and initiatives or requirements. I actually had to ask myself about this after I sat down, because I wondered if there was something I had forgotten. Quite right – that was something I had forgotten. There were no demands from the EU in 2020, but it was a requirement earlier, at least when the representative was in office from 2012. It was not done, but I have now been informed that there were no demands from them in 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4862	I have some brief comments for the case spokesperson and for the understanding of this. When one hears a talk about the number of thousands of tonnes and differences that were allowed, it is worth noting, when one says that in the 2012 agreement 2700 tonnes and in the 2018 agreement 1 200 tonnes were given, that these are annual sizes, so the right thing is that one in the sum of 2018 and 2012 gave 3,900 tonnes. On the other hand, what is a concern is that imports of food into Norway are increasing. It applies not only to the items covered by Article 19 but also to imports. The invitation to eat Norwegian is at least firm, and I believe that the representative Reiten and I are a very few about it. When it comes to understanding what happened in the red-green period, I have recorded that very many – perhaps especially in the Christian People's Party – are very busy talking about that period. I don't need anything to avoid it, but I have a little difficulty seeing what can come out of it, because we in the Center Party are more concerned about looking at the future. But when one first took us back to this, I would say in the spring of 2013 that the current party leader, the then Minister of Agriculture, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, made a good agricultural decision. In fact, it was such a good agricultural affair that I believe Steinar Reiten, who was then represented in the nutrition committee, was the only one who was the furthest and thought this was bad. He could not fill Eidsvoll's place with angry peasants who protested against Battle Violence Vedum. So it's saying that there were many things in the red-green government that could have been better. We've learned, and we're ready for the next round.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4875	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4893	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4900	I must first thank the Committee on Cooperation in the matter. Today we are dealing with a matter that proposes that the ban on motor vehicles on water under 2 km 2 of the Motor Travel Act be amended so that municipalities can allow traffic by boat with an electric motor. The basis of the case is a proposal from the Central Party, which was promoted three years ago. Then the government was asked to come back to Stortinget with a proposal to amend the law to open up the use of electric boat engines on small water. So I have to say that I think it has taken the Council of State quite such a long time to get back to Stortinget with one thing. This case, as said, the Central Party in Stortinget three years ago, and it must be allowed to ask why it has taken a whole three years for the government to assess how to formulate a legal text such that people will be allowed to put around a small water with electric motor on their boat. I would also like to say that there have been very many consultations with the Ministry, and a large majority of them support this proposal. Yes, even Enebak SV has supported the proposal. They write, among other things, in the consultation stage: ‘We consider the proposal to be of great importance to outdoor life, which can give people with difficulty the opportunity to get on the water and experience boating and recreational fishing.’ So it's going to be exciting to hear what SV in this room has to say about this proposal today. The central party to which the proposal is critical is that the supervisory authorities are to be given access to the control and imposition of infringement fees. Although this has taken a very long time, it is good that the matter now comes up, for the use of the electric motor on small water should be as natural as that it is allowed to cycle around the same water. Electric boat is a small disruptive vessel to use in nature and probably makes less trouble than if you use heavy veins to relax in the same boat. At the end of today, I would like to congratulate the Council of States on the fact that he now seems to have a sensible and practical code in this area, even if he had not had to spend a whole three years writing the bill. I hope he will also take that with regard to other proposals on motor travel, when it comes to dealing with it, that there can be a sensible and practical regulation about something that should have been a matter of course today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4923	Based on a call decision in Stortinget, the government has now delivered a well-worked proposition. It is suggested that municipalities be allowed to open for use by motor vehicles with an electric motor with an input power of up to 800 W on lakes less than 2 km 2. In the assessment, municipalities should focus on the importance of water as a habitat for wild tarts and birds and pay particular attention to the concern for hedges. Furthermore, it is clear that the municipalities cannot open up to motor traffic involving significant damage to bird life, and some minor changes to the rules of motorsportsellova on authority and delegation are also proposed. In the right, we are concerned that municipalities should be given authority in local conditions that determine their inhabitants. In this case, the authority will be moved down to the municipal level, which we are happy to be able to do. It has our great commitment to the listening rounds, and the municipalities have engaged themselves with good and thorough pronouncements. It has also been done by nature organisations and other parties, and this has led to some adjustments compared to the out-of-hearing proposal. This guarantees that it has been good and thorough processes in all parts of the cases that have now been highlighted. For very many people in this country, such a proposition will never affect daily life and their experiences in nature, but for those who are in debt, it is good that we now facilitate local and good assessments when it concerns motor travel on lakes up to 2 km 2, well to mark with electric motor, which takes care of natural experiences and environmental considerations, while giving access to nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4938	We have had a debate on this matter earlier in the Chamber, and the arguments that are being expressed both ways, we have heard before. I still have to come up with some thoughts about this proposal. This is not a very big case, and I notice that the representative Borch refers to one of our thousands of local teams when she says that Enebak SV supports this. I guess that means that all of the others might be against it. In any case, it is now the case that we are constantly taking small steps in nature – small steps that together cause more and more pressure on nature. We're not good enough here in the hall to bring with us the UN Panel of Nature all the way. There's such a small grip that makes us stress nature more and more. As I mentioned in the debate that was here in the Chamber a while ago, it does not only apply to the possible little lashing, or what was said, from the engine. Here are several items that will be added. It significantly increases mobility. Otherwise you wouldn't have used this electric motor. We can imagine a water that is 4 kilometers long – it could be – and 500 meters wide. Then it's probably about 2 km 2, as far as my head count is concerned. Very often, the water is like this in Norway, and that means that you come quite quickly from one side to another, where there may be a tear or a big clot that hedges. They go on the water at once, and if you happen to be a little too long there, a few seconds ashore, maybe, near that fence, they'll never come back. They'll never come again! Trana – or sangswana if you are in Finnmark, for example. - Get out of the line. So this has a little more serious consequences than the population is aware of, and that's what I want to point out. So we're taking our little grips pretty evenly all the time. I'm going to commend the Department and the Council of State for setting the limit of 800 W. That's at least something I think rhymes with the request decision. I've understood it so that this should be a little bit of help to people who can't calm down. Then you have to have a rowing speed, and then I guess 800 W should hold. So I see in the presentation here and in the hearing that there are people who say that think if it's headwinds. Yeah, that's actually the headwind if you're pushing, too, so I think it's a strange objection. I also see the forces that come with these proposals for motorised travel in the field. We see who this comes from. It often comes from the Center Party, it often comes from the Advance Party, and now they find each other quite often here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4954	Today, we have a proposal for changes in motor vehicle sales. I believe that the proposal together will improve the law, and I am pleased that a number in the Committee support our proposal. The first proposal in the proposal is that municipalities can open up for use by boat with an electric motor of up to 800 W on water of less than 2 km 2. I notice that the Swedish Environment Party and the Green Party are opposed to environmental concerns, and there was also a basis in the post of the representative Nävra now. In the hearing there was a clear majority supporting the proposal. What's being drawn out as an argument, and many think it's positive, is that it'll make the outdoors more accessible to more people, that it'll be easier to get on a fishing trip or a boat trip on less water. And all of a sudden, I'm saying that what we're going to say, find an OK balance between different considerations. The electrical motor can have little power, so little that it does not give more speed than row speed. It is also the case that when the municipality decides to open up to this type of movement, emphasis shall be placed on the water as a habitat for wild tarts and birds. Particular emphasis must be placed on the importance of hedges and the municipality cannot open up to motor traffic which will cause significant damage to bird life. The proposal thus ensures, in my view, the concern for nature. If the municipality considers granting permission for such a movement, the municipality must map the conditions mentioned, unless the municipality already has the type of knowledge. Another proposal in the proposal relates to the authority of the State Department of Nature. Today, nature supervision may require the snowmobile driver to present documents as an obligation to have them in the course of the run. Natural care may also provide drivers of snowmobiles with a fee if he breaks motorcyclists’ or nature conservation laws. The proposal in the proposal is that the SNO should also be able to do so when it applies to drivers of other types of motor vehicle or motor vehicle. This is the principle that is already implemented by law. The changes currently proposed only mean that drivers of other types of motor vehicle or motor vehicle and snowmobile drivers are handled in the same way. In the hearing, a clear majority of the hearing authorities support that proposal. They point out that it would make it easier for the State’s nature oversight to carry out effective control of motor travel in the outland. The police are also in favour of the proposal. The Directorate of Police points out that, in practice today, police can only operate this type of control to a lesser extent, and they are therefore positive in strengthening the SNO’s ability to control motor travel in the outland. That's what I was going to say – we'll see if there are any lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4976	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4981	The change in the law we are adopting today is identical to the one that I, along with others in the Center Party, proposed in 2017. The proposal was then to have a majority, until then the Elvesu State Council convinced the Committee that the amendment of the law was unnecessary. He was going to sort this out with a prescription change. I suggested in the debate at the time that this was a training manoeuvre. On a question from me in the reply about when this would be in place, the answer was that it would happen ‘without undue delay’, but from the summer and the harvest we are in now, a plea must be made that the old legislation applies. So this was the summer of 2018. Then the obvious question is, why in all days has it taken three years to get this change in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4990	I've got our state council for the last year. This case has been heard, and we've got a number of reports. There are many different opinions about how this legislation should be designed. How to use e.g. ensure that sufficient attention is given to hedged birds? Should the municipalities only do this by simple decision-making, or should they also be able to have general regulations? Who shall have authority to control? This is not the biggest and most complicated thing in the world, but there have been some issues that we have had to look at and consider. The proposal has now been submitted to the Stortinget, and I understand that it is the members of the Committee who are pleased with it. It is assumed that the Storting will accept it, and I assume that the Storting thinks it is fine.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e4995	I am also very pleased with that. The Ministry said at the time that this was to be done with a change of regulations, that it was so simple that it was not necessary to promote in the Chamber the proposal to obtain a majority. What kind of balances did they do, when one year later they found out that it was completely impossible to achieve a regulatory change?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5002	It's been sketched a little bit of a different way to the goal here. In the evaluations of the existing government councils in the department when a call for treatment was given, one saw a slightly different model that could be found and selected. The one we've chosen to make changes to the laws themselves, not only to open up what the Storting wanted one to open up, but also to have a sensible regime for anyone who would distribute the fee and check, as was already legal, I think it makes more sense to do it this way. It also seems that the committee is pleased with, and that is good.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5014	When this was sent out, the department suggested that there should be an application-based scheme in which a person should have the same arrangements as when a driver goes to the cabin, that he should be applied for and given permission for individual trips or for a year. The municipalities were very sceptical about this, and many argued that having it in regulatory form would make nature much better understood. Is that what the Council of State shares?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5019	Yes, as I have now suggested that you choose to do this with a regulation or a simple decision, I think there is a flexibility for the municipalities. Then I perceive that the important thing for Stortinget is to give the municipalities something more self-government in these kinds of questions. That's actually what we're proposing. But there are many people in the hearing who have thought that providing general regulations would be easier for municipalities based on local circumstances. So it opens so that you can give a regulation or take a simple decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5024	It is probably not without reason that – what we should call it – nature’s guardians, such as organisations such as SABIMA, Norwegian Ornithological Association and more, oppose this proposal. Does the Council share the view that all such small proposals as this – it is not a big proposal, not a comprehensive proposal, we agree on it – are itself increasing the pressure, small in time, on Norwegian nature and Norwegian wildlife?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5029	It's a little bit of a question of to what extent, to what extent, this home will be used. There are already possibilities to give singles where there are good reasons, for example. for someone to come to a cabin, or to a hotel, if that is the only option. But now we say that if local authorities want to do so, they can give permission to use this type of vessel for other purposes – outdoor life, fishing, etc. I agree with the representative that when one provides opportunities to use nature more in vulnerable areas, the pressure on nature may increase. So I'm busy that when an opener of that kind of thing, a do it in a way that puts emphasis on nature. That is why we have also taken the view that the importance of hedges should be at the root of the decision by the municipality, and that one cannot give up the right to move if there is significant damage to bird life.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5036	I thank you for that answer. I understand that we share to some extent the opinion that I outlined. What is also a point here is that the assessment of the vulnerability of bird life and bird populations may vary from year to year. If a municipality classifies a water as permitted for this type of vessel with electric motors, it may be quite harmful the following year. That means that it might be a sensible arrangement to consider this on a case-by-case basis, for the sake of bird life. That's the one question. The second is: is it not possible for such a permit to bring with it other measures that put pressure on nature, with several questions about the construction of e.g. Naust because there are electric motors involved, so that there is also a greater pressure for expansion in these areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5045	In any case, this proposal itself will not involve any opening, liberalisation, or additional possibilities relating to the law on planning and building, or construction of a naus, which was used as an example here. For example: will be a greater pressure on exemptions, of course you may wonder, but at least I hope not. So I also think that the representative points out, in a given situation, that a municipality is based on individual decisions, individual permissions, rather than general regulations, but it will have to be an assessment by the municipality. Municipalities are different, and there are also different small waters and different lives there. We get to say that we now choose to give the municipalities some more trust in these questions, and I hope they show themselves to be worthy of that trust.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5052	I thank you again for the answer. I will not go beyond what is necessary, but I have a final question to the Council of State, and it concerns the control of these engines. There were some people who wanted a bigger effect -- naturally, it's always that -- but I think the Council of State got in the right place. How does the Council of State see that controls on the size and effect of these engines can be achieved? Does he realize that this can be an effective control, or something that is going to flow out, literally?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5057	When it comes to technical inspections of boat engines, I have to admit that there is a little outside the central competence of the Council of State. But it is now such that the authority to do so – and to check that one follows the rules and has any running positions with it and such things – will now be given to the State's nature oversight. I think that's good. Because, as the police pointed out in their reply to us, they have a lot of tasks to take care of, and have very limited possibilities to control violations of this kind of law. However, for the State’s nature oversight, it is well-placed that they can exercise effective control and also impose sanctions in an unbureaucratic way through fees. I am so pleased that this has given us an opportunity to make a reasonable adjustment to the laws, so that a non-discriminatory treatment of different motor vessels and vehicles, and that it is the State's nature oversight that has the task to verify that everyone complies with the rules that are laid down, whether it is in regulations or individual decisions, in the individual municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5064	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5071	The starting point for this case is that Holtålen municipality in spring 2017 prescribed the possibility to use an electric motor of 20 named water of less than 2 km 2. This was repealed by the State in 2017 on the grounds that specific reasons under the Motor Travel Act were not fulfilled. In that decision they also had a decision that the petrol engine could be used up to 6 hp on water above 2 km 2. There was no objection to that. This was quite incomprehensible to local politicians. At the same time, it was just stated that electric bicycles should be equated with bicycles for outdoor use. So you could ride as much as you could around the water, but you couldn't have a small electric motor on a boat on these waters. This seemed extremely illogical, and therefore we promoted this amendment of the law. It was endorsed by the Stortinget Committee until then by the Elvesu State Council convinced the Committee that there was sufficient regulatory change. The proposal was therefore not promoted. In the debate, Elvesuen suggested that it might have to change the law to light, and that made me suspect that this was an attempt to train. In the exchange of replies, the Council of State assured me that it would be carried out ‘without undue delay’. We're now talking about 2018. It was only two years later that there was a legislative proposal at the hearing. It is added that everyone has to search, it should be personal, time-limited permission, the same arrangement as for scooters for their own cabin. The feedback from the municipalities was clearly negative on this procedure. Fortunately, the government has listened to the recordings, and our original proposal that municipalities can enforce the possibility is now finally adopted. This is a small matter in the big context, but it is important for them. It is a public health measure that allows more people to get out, and those who, for different reasons, cannot calm, can also get out of the water, something like that. Hill SV pointed out in the hearing. It is more in line with people's general sense of justice that bicycles and boats are treated in a non-discriminatory way, and it is a victory for local democracy. In general, there is too much over-testing of local democracy. There must be a clear limit to what the state administrator is going to do. Electric motor on a boat on small waters is far beyond that limit. I assume that the municipalities are immediately informed of this change, so that those who want to do so can make regulatory changes in good time before the ice goes on the water.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5093	What Mr. Greni says seems logical – you can cycle around a water with your electric bicycle, and you are not allowed to use an electric motor on the water. First of all, it's not exactly all the forest water that can be cycled around with an electric bicycle, it belongs to the few – very few you can do it around. Then I guess I could say, if it's allowed, that the representative – I shouldn't say she doesn't have knowledge – may not have thought that the bird life is disrupted in a completely different way from the waterway than from the highway, that's a huge difference. Very often it's long green, it's wetlands, it's tough, so it's vegetation beyond. It is a long distance from where you can cycle – if you have at best a bike path – and from where the bird life is. On the other hand, if you get the waterway, it's full panic for many species. This is pure biological knowledge, so using something that seems to be logical -- you can, of course, scroll a little bit with it, it sounds like that, but that's not the way the facts are. I've been in many such wetlands, and I've seen the difference in moving on land, where you don't get far, and it's just bringing a canoe – it's a big disturbance. Then I'm not going to have a line afterwards that says, "Now you said canoe, you didn't say electric motor." No, but the point is that with an electric motor you get far further away, you get to move much further than you do with a canoe or with a rowing boat in many cases. That's just what I wanted to say, now I'm going to keep quiet.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5100	It is well possible that I am lingerie, I have no paper that can neither prove nor disprove it, but one thing is at least certain: that bird is just as much disturbed if I rudder by with a rowboat, or if I pass by with a small electric motor. I know these 20 waters that the Holtål had named that time. Such horror scenarios that it's going to be built nuggets and cabins and everything around them are, of course, all the other way around. It is local knowledge that governs this now, and local knowledge has of course chosen the 20 waters for which they believe this is relevant. 20 might sound a lot to people in the hall who don't know the municipality, but it's just a fraction of the water in the municipality. As the representative pointed out, there are also disturbances of a canoe, and there are no more disturbances of a boat with an electric motor, probably there will be much less interference from a boat with an electric motor. You don't have to do this. You don't have to do this. It is not that there is room for mass migration out to these waters because if one is allowed to have an electric motor there. I don't think any of these waters are available from the highway. So that means that those who are going to use them are going to carry up a boat, possibly wanting to drive it there in the winter and have it lying down. It's not like half Trondheim will come to the Holtåln to drive the electric motor around on these small waters. So I see this as completely unproblematic and I am absolutely convinced that local politicians take care of nature when they select these waters.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5111	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5128	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5135	First of all, I must thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter as well. I'm assuming that the other parties will explain their positions. I'm going to start with a quote: 'We've stopped the requested project all the time.' Anyone who says that is the Vice President of the Workers' Party, the Bears' Shrine, in an interview with the Free Trade Movement on 12 May last year. With such a clear statement by the Vice President of the Workers' Party, it is strange that today we are once again standing in the Chamber with one thing about stopping NorthConnect. But perhaps it is not so strange when we read the answer from the Council of State to the Committee, where she writes that, as of today, she will not make a decision on the matter of cable to be built or not. The matter today is simply about yes or no to NorthConnect. It's not about all the other possible and impossible conditions around a concession request. The government has already said that they do not find the basis for concession now, because first experience is to be gained from the two cables under construction. However, this does not prevent the construction of the cable when such experience is available, although the NVE, the government's department, has already confirmed that the construction of the cable will lead to higher electricity prices in Norway. The power market has naturally changed over time, but there has always been a clear political premise that Norwegian industry and Norwegian families should be taken into account. The NorthConnect international cable breaks with all these premises if it's built. For the Central Party, the issue is that power policy should continue to serve Norwegian families and Norwegian industry, and that low power prices and renewable energy should continue to be one of the main competitive advantages of our industry. The cable, regardless of who builds it out, and who owns it, will lead to increased exports and more expensive electricity and put many thousands of Norwegian jobs at risk. Such a situation would not be part of the Centre Party – putting Norwegian industry at such a great risk. It is good that the Progress Party has escaped from the so-called prison and now supports the proposal to stop NorthConnect. But it is also worth noting that the Progress Party is responsible for the fact that today there is a great deal of uncertainty about whether the cable will be built or not. So I would encourage the Workers' Party to start being honest in this case, because what the Workers' Party's Vice President says in the media, is not right. It proves the Workers' Party today when they don't agree to secure a majority to stop NorthConnect. I cannot understand that the Labour Party wants to hurt itself so much that once again you join the government parties in this matter. With that, I'll deal with that proposal the Center Party is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5154	The representative Sandra Borch has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5159	Norway and the rest of the world are facing a major transformation to resolve the climate crisis. We in Norway also face a major challenge in creating new jobs for the many thousands currently employed in oil companies. Ensuring access to clean and renewable energy for the creation of new industrial workplaces in Norway is essential and there is one of the main reasons why SV is currently involved in the proposal to stop the development of NorthConnect. There are already two cables under construction, and we need to gain experience with these before we should re-examine the discussion about new foreign tables. This was also a large number of people who agreed not very many years ago. At the same time, it is important to recognise that with the power system we have in Norway, which is largely based on hydropower and natural fluctuations in rainfall from year to year, we will be dependent on having contact with the rest of the world through the cables we have today. If we hadn't, we would have had to build up a much larger power generation, with associated much bigger natural interventions than what we've done, to make sure that this year it rains little. The price of it would probably also be high for the consumer, not just for nature. But today we have a large exchange capacity with the rest of the world, and it will soon be even bigger. What is important now, as I said at the outset, is to give priority to the fact that we have enough power in the future to ensure the creation of new jobs also in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5170	Today, the Workers' Party has one last chance before the election to show that they're closing the door for NorthConnect. They could stand with the industry, the trade movement and the left side to scrape this cable once and for all, but instead go with the Right and keep the door on fire. Thus, the NorthConnect concession application becomes clear in the drawer in the department, and then the next oil and energy minister can take the application out of the drawer and give up the thumbs to the construction of NorthConnect when he or she wants it. NVE's numbers show that someone wins, while others lose, on NorthConnect. The winnings are the power companies. They make sure that the electricity price increases, while the population and industry, all of us who pay for the power, lose. It has been cold in Norway for a long time now. Many people are having trouble paying their electricity bill. If NorthConnect is built, we will export more power and import higher power prices, and it's neither the inhabitants nor the industry in our country served. In fact, Norway wants to be a power-generating industrial nation exporting industrial products produced in an environmentally friendly way instead of sending more and more electricity out of the country as a raw material. It is the low energy cost of environmentally friendly renewable hydropower that has been a decisive advantage for our industry for over 100 years, but this industry is at risk when the market is faced with cold Norway far towards north-higher energy costs, and it is increasingly happening for every new power cable that connects us to the EU energy market. Of course, when power prices are run up, to which NorthConnect will contribute, industry’s power contracts will have to be based in a few years’ time on a higher price level than before. The result of treating Norwegian hydropower as a pure export product and not as an input for own value creation can therefore be significant industrial deaths. That is why Red, like the Joint Alliance and the LO, is against NorthConnect. We know that this industry exports for over 100 billion dollars. kr per year, creating thousands of climate-friendly jobs, is the industrial basis for innovation and industrial development in forward-looking industries and ensures employment and housing along our coast. Should Norway continue to be an industrial nation, or should we sell the power as a commodity to other countries? That is at the heart of this matter, and here the answer should be very simple, at least if you are a working party. Then you have to say a clear and clear – and finally – no to NorthConnect.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5181	The nice thing about going up to the pulpit right after the representative Bears Moxnes is that you know that the revolution is not yet going on. You never know when he's up here, if he's going to declare that the bloody revolution has begun. There are big things happening in Norwegian politics today in other parties, but there is nothing I can imagine that is so big that the Committee on Energy and the Environment has had a debate we have had countless times in the past. There are no new arguments on any of the sides of this debate. There is nothing new about the case, there is nothing about the case that has changed. But the Bears Moxnes revealed in his post why he wanted this matter. It's a pure election campaign game. We are now in this room as part of a pure election campaign from Red against the Workers' Party. That is the respect that the Communist Party has for the institution Stortinget. What's a little bit different this time is that when you read the notes, you're left with a huge question mark because of what it says. The centre party acknowledges in the comments that this matter has been dealt with many times in the past, but then they write that it has been addressed in different ways. It's completely wrong. It's been the same way every time, it's the same arguments over and over and over again. It's nothing new. So the Center Party writes that there's uncertainty in the concession request. It's also completely wrong. In the same sentence, they manage to say that this uncertainty that has engulfed the concession request has something to do with Storting's treatment of the third energy market package, or what we call ACER in the public mouth, which is completely wrong. The two things have nothing to do with each other, and I have to say that I'm shocked that an old, traditional, serious, decent party is holding on that way and later on as if two things that are not at all related are related. They even do it in notes. No one reads comments, but even there they do. It's amazing. Then it is remarkable that the representative Lars Haltbrecken of the Socialist Left Party – yes, because let's never forget that the guy is nice, but he's a socialist – has a long comment where he actually writes that it was wrong to vote against Acer, the third energy market package of the EU. [[muttering in the hall]] If we want a renewable transition, we also need to provide the renewable industry with a stable framework. At least that's what we think you should do.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5196	It is clear that at least the representative Heggelund has read the comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5201	It's maybe a little bit of a ritual debate, this, and yeah, maybe also with a little bit of socialist and communist initiatives. Maybe it's also a little bit about ghosts, which are not so current today, because no one is ready with the divers and the excavators and is ready to start building. But that's it. I want to ask for something else, for those who are so concerned with the NorthConnect resistance: these parts that are so opposed are very much for sea wind, and the possible NorthConnect cable, which is really maybe a little ghost, goes across the Utsira North, which is one of the two areas where we open to start with sea window construction, so it's really possible here to see some industrial possibilities, when a boat is for sea wind and for industry. So the United Kingdom has left the EU, and it's actually a cheek egg in itself. Why not focus a little on those possibilities, instead of being bothered so much that this will be difficult for the Norwegian industry. Hydro is already a huge owner of both hydropower and wind power. They have fifteen years of contracts – they are one of very few companies that have so long energy contracts – and they rate industrial production in Norway. It is also the case that the wind that could possibly come from Scotland through this cable can blow the other way, so it is not just Norway that is exporting from a water station. In addition, this is also a matter with some principal aspects. Statnet should, in case, own the cable, we all agree on that. But what is also a reality is that we have given the opportunity for other actors to take the initiative and possibly build, if that is important to them, and if they see an opportunity. I think that maybe is the most important part of this, and then we just have to wait and see when someone is actually ready to implement this, but right now it is a very little topical matter. But it's good that someone keeps living in ghosts!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5212	We were clearly invited to say what we mean, but I thought we were very clear that we are very pleased with that agreement, that we secured a majority and got Statnet as owner, and that we should gain experience from the two cables. One is well complete, as far as I know, and the other is going to start. So we actually don't quite know how the energy market is developing in the future. There is considerable uncertainty, both about the Nordic market and about what is happening in the United Kingdom and in Europe. Having openings in the future has been important also to the Workers' Party, but not least that we secured such a solid majority for what was important to us, both security of energy and that it is the state that is to own it. With regard to the prices that have now been, I have reported that some of the lowest prices have been in South Africa, perhaps because they have cable and energy from there, when it has been as cold as it is now. Someone was talking in the previous debate about being a little thin. I didn't think my colleagues were in the same way, because I think the Workers' Party has been very clear on this matter. In the West we have been against this cable, and there are different views on it internally in the Workers' Party, but as I said, the agreement is on track, and we intend to follow it up, because it is good for the country that we have such a broad majority to secure renewable energy in the future, and that we get the state as owner. I hope it's the last time we get this debate up, but I realize it's gonna be important in the election campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5221	There's a little empty hall here today, but there's a lot of comfort in that many people might be on the Internet. At the same time, I think maybe we're competing with a press conference, too, so I don't know. But we can have a debate, at least, and that's good. The matter we are dealing with today is well informed, you might say. No less than three representative proposals on the same topic were discussed in depth as late as last year, and none of the proposals were then given a majority in the Stortinget. At the end of March last year, I informed the owners of the scheduled cable NorthConnect that there was not sufficient basis under the Energy Act to take decisions in the concession case. This is because the Norwegian and Nordic power systems are undergoing major changes and these changes are taking place quickly. Much unregulatable wind power is now being developed in Norway, the Nordic countries and Europe, while regulated fossil power generation and nuclear power are being phased out. Before Christmas, the new cable to Germany, NordLink, was put into operation, and later this year the cable to the United Kingdom is to be started. Overall, these changes will have major effects on the Norwegian power system, while other changes are also taking place in the Norwegian power system and in the systems to which we are linked. In this situation, it is difficult to assess whether the benefits of another cable to the rest of the world, that is, NorthConnect, will compensate for the disadvantages. For it is only when experience has been gained from the effects on the power system of the new links with Germany and the United Kingdom that there will be a basis for taking a decision in that concession case. In Norway, we have been acting forcefully with our neighbouring countries for many decades, and we are part of a closely integrated Nordic power system. This has been of great benefit to both Norwegian producers and electricity consumers. The cables have contributed to increased revenues for both power producers, municipalities and countries, and they have facilitated the import of power during periods of low intensity in the Norwegian hydropower system. In the cold period that we're in right now, we find that power prices are kept lower than they would otherwise be, as a result of imports of electricity from the continent. I am concerned about the mainland industry and its conditions. We must use the force to a greater extent while ensuring that the basis for investment in the power supply is not weakened. Norwegian power generation is mainly owned by Norwegian municipalities, county municipalities and the state. In other words, power trading also gives money in cash to Kommune-Norway, and in particular the districts. A good balance between new power generation in Norway and new transmission links abroad provides us with a power system that effectively facilitates value creation and employment across the country — and lower electricity prices than in most other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5235	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5240	A consequence of the EU Energy Union is likely to lead to more foreign tables and a single electricity market in Europe. The Central Party has already asked the Council of State on written questions about this earlier, but the Council of State refuses to respond. Today I want answers. Does the Council of State believe that a common energy market and a common price for electricity in Europe are a good idea?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5245	Norway participates in the EU’s efforts to create a more efficient energy market because it serves us. But all concessions to production facilities, power grids or foreign tables are given by Norwegian energy authorities. Acer does not affect it. We are the sovereigns there, and I believe we have also been informed of all the countless times we have had this debate. Nor is it the case that Norway is going to have higher prices of electricity, but the aim of the work done in the EU is for everyone to have more reasonable prices of electricity. This is a good thing for the European Union's electricity consumers, and I understand that they have that goal. But it's not that we have the line in Norwegian policy that we're going to try to get the same electricity prices that other countries in Europe have, that are even higher than we do. On the contrary, it is never going to be socio-economically profitable to build cables that will produce such an effect. So I'm not afraid.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5252	ACER confirms on its own website that its mission is to promote a fully integrated energy market in Europe. I would like to ask again: does the Council of State think that this is a good goal?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5257	It is a good goal for the EU to try to have a functioning power market, which is really similar to what we have in the Nordic region. That is what this work is in the EU. They're trying to get the system that we have in the Nordic region, that we've had for many years. It is a good system that has served Norway well, and the other Nordic countries. That they have that goal, I don't think it's surprising, but there's no resemblance between it and that it's going to lead to higher power prices in Norway. That's where I think this debate is haunting. A connection is made that I believe it is not a basis for claiming that it exists – ref. And what I said instead, it'll never be socio-economically profitable for Norway to build cables that will give us a similar electricity price with Europe, if it's higher than the one we have in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5262	There has been a big point for the Workers' Party that they say they have finally stopped NorthConnect and therefore no further decisions are needed in the Stortinget, because there are conditions that will ensure that you will never get NorthConnect. I wonder if the Council of State can confirm – as far as short and concise as possible – whether it is such that NorthConnect will be assessed under a new energy law, with the changes that the Workers' Party has received, or after the existing old energy law, given that the application has been submitted long before the new energy law enters into force. Will NorthConnect, which is now placed in a drawer, be able to be removed from the drawer and be judged by old, current law, or will a new energy law determine the assessment of the NorthConnect application?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5267	First of all, I cannot support the description given here by the representative of Mr Moxnes of what is the views of the Labour Party, but I assume that the Labour Party can respond quite well to it itself, and I believe that the Labour Party has also done so many times in this Chamber in many rounds earlier when we have had this debate. I have also said many times in the past – and I suspect that the representative of Moxnes knows – that that application is pending. It is not common for changes to the law to have retroactive effect. I have therefore said that it is natural if-if-if-if-if you take that concession treatment again, that it gets treatment under the old energy law. However, if NorthConnect is to be granted a concession with today's owners, it may be granted for a limited period of time. In any case, there is something that needs to be decided in the concession treatment, and there is no plan to resume it now. In this respect, I may think that the name that was used by another representative here earlier today, that this is a little bit to see ghosts on a bright day, is quite striking.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5272	I thank you for that clarification. It was so clear and clear. You want to treat NorthConnect according to old, current law, and not according to new law, i.e. that the Workers' Party highlights as an important breakthrough to prevent so-called private-side cables in the future, will not be applicable to NorthConnect. Let's say that Statnet would step into the owner's side and take over this cable if other current owners want to sell out. Is there anything that suggests that a state-owned NorthConnect cable to the United Kingdom will have any less power on the power price than a private-owned cable?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5279	Now I think we're pretty far inside of hypothetical issues that I find to be somewhat difficult to decide, given that this concession request is suspended. But I agree that what may affect the power prices or the power system in Norway is the cables, not who owns them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5284	The NVE estimates that the current price will increase by 1 to 3 ør per kWh with NorthConnect, i.e. that the electricity cost can rise by about 4.2 billion. kr every year for 40 years if this project is to be implemented – which will then be assessed according to and under the applicable energy law, where there is room for so-called privately owned export cables for electricity. Is it to understand that the Council of State sees any other estimate of the price effect of NorthConnect on the Norwegian electricity prices than those already provided by the NVE in its analysis of the socio-economic impact of the cable?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5289	It is true that the representative points out that the NVE estimated that the electricity price would go up somewhat if NorthConnect were built, but it would still be at a lower level because the projections show that the electricity prices should be lower over time. They wouldn't be as low as they would be, but they would still be lower. The rest of the representative's questions I find it somewhat difficult to answer, also because this is a very complex and complicated system. The flow of power between the Nordic countries and to the continent will vary over time, and it is quite difficult to come up with a concrete estimate of exactly what something will look like. That's why I think it would be impossible to give now. A new analysis had to be made when you might have to expand NorthConnect, in order to know how it would affect, given what the power system would look like. This is a frequent change. But I think it's interesting that in the time when there's been very high electricity prices, most of our exports have gone to Sweden, while we've imported from Germany.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5297	So the chord change is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5304	State Council Bru recently accused me of reversing in the future in a debate in the United Nations, in response to my scepticism for the fourth energy market package of the EU. I can reassure the Council of State that I stand up every day with my gaze firmly fixed on the future. But the one who doesn't take lessons from history is also bad at planning for the future. Some people here talk about the Central Party seeing ghosts on a bright day – yes, but we who have been in the EU fight since the early 1990s and interpreted the Maastricht Agreement as the warning of an EU Union, we who read the EEA Agreement and tried to tell this room about how the EEA was going to intervene in the Norwegian social system at almost all levels, and were ridiculed for what we have learned a little about it. We also read what Acer makes of himself as, that is, an organisation that is to contribute to an energy exchange market in Europe. The centre party is clear that NorthConnect should not be built in the interests of Norwegian industry and Norwegian consumers. When the Center Party was in government, we made it illegal to build private export cables for Norwegian electricity, but when the Progress Party and the Right took over responsibility, the Secretary of State for Oil and Energy Tord Lien made it a point that Norwegian electricity prices should be higher. A means to get to it was just to change the law and open up to the private cables. As a result, it was also possible to apply for a concession to build NorthConnect. However, it is not just the Advance Party and the Right who want this cable. The EU has allocated 10 million. the euro for this project. At the same time, this cable is at the top of EU priority projects. As the central party was in government, we demanded that the cable be removed from the list, while the current government, with the Right and the Advance Party, has accepted that the cable is on the EU wish list. A new cable provides no more electricity to export, but will only contribute further to the export of Norwegian electricity, which in turn gives Norwegian consumers, Norwegian families and Norwegian industry higher network rentals. NorthConnect is not necessary to ensure Norwegian security of supply. Today and in the foreseeable future, we have more than enough capacity to exchange. The new cables to Germany, which were recently completed, and they to England for next year, have only the capacity to export 50–60 pst. of Norwegian energy production. Fortunately, Norway has a surplus in the electricity market of around 10–15 pst. of total output per year. It's about 12-20 TWh. It is true that we have had a power loss for some years, for example. in 2010, when we had a deficit of approx. 11 TWh, but with the cable capacity we now have, it means that it can flow far more power through the cables than what is needed to meet the country's needs and secure delivery security. NorthConnect will only contribute to a further integrated electricity market. In a market, market forces are known to exist, and the power will flow your need is greatest and prices are highest.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5321	The representative Myhrvold has just sat down on his chair, and I hope he can now press the button and draw himself to a new post, because I think it's a little remarkable that no one from the Center Party is willing to answer the challenges they get. It's not that because you're in opposition, you just have to stand and have monologues in the main hall, as the Center Party has gotten used to doing. This is a debate, and if you're challenged, you have to answer it. So the question is, what is the direct relationship between NorthConnect and ACER, as the Center Party is trying to create a context in the comments and in the rhetoric it has about this in the social debate? Can they explain that? Or do they in their heart know that this is not related, that there are two different things to discuss? It's e.g. not that ACER makes you have to build NorthConnect, as it might seem when the Center Party is talking. Can they explain why, later on, there's so much connection between it? So I wonder: if it's not like you're against power exchange – and let's never forget that Ola Borten Moe, when he was Minister of Oil and Energy, was very positive about power exchange and took the initiative to build more cables – but only have the concerns you hear about, that just the way the picture looks now, you're afraid that this will have negative consequences for Norwegian consumers, why should you go in and stop a concession request completely? Why not take those assessments? What you're saying in the pulpit, you're going to have to grips with what you're voting for. Last question: does the Central Party want us to get out of Nordic force cooperation, that is, we're going out of North Pool, that we're going to end with power exchange? Because there is the market, and we now heard what it is like when the market comes, so it must mean that the centre party is against it. If they're not against it, they're for what Ole André Myhrvold now stands here and says he's against. Things have to hang out when you talk.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5332	One should tell the whole story. For it was the Minister of Energy of the Central Party, Eivind Reiten, who liberalised the Norwegian power market. And the Central Party has had the Minister of Energy quite many times over the years after Eivind Reiten did it. Then we have to ask the question: how many power cables do Norway have? With the two that are now completed, we have 19 power cables. With NorthConnect, a ghost that is a bit difficult to see at the moment, it could be 20. I've never heard that the Center Party has been against any of those 19, so what's the challenge with this? At least we have to tell the whole story. What's the difference between them? There is a timely question for the representative Heggelund here. Will the Center Party establish an electric fence around Norway? That's good, but we're already pretty well supplied with renewable energy. Then at least we have to get speed on the green transition and use the renewable energy to something, and export it. That's good. But it's also the case that those power cables have given an income, a profit, to Norway in very many tens of billions in recent years. One says no to a significant source of income from renewable energy that is otherwise not allowed to be used.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5339	It's always exciting to get challenges from Stefan Heggelund. This time he saw at least that I was sitting over there and had not hidden me behind the pole – and that is a progress. In the case of ACER, it was actually the government parties and the Workers' Party that brought ACER and NorthConnect together in an agreement and mixed the issues together. And as I said in the introduction, the objective of Acer is therefore a more integrated power market in Europe. In order to achieve a more integrated power market in Europe, there is a need for interconnecting cables to ensure that the power flows freely. Thus, the construction of foreign tables is also part of the overall discussion of an integrated power market. Then Stefan Heggelund tries to draw up stories around the North Pool. The center party is for it. The centre party has never been in principle against force exchange. We've seen the need for it, and it's worked well the way it has now. But the problem is, as I illustrated on the pulpit instead, that the capacity of these cables, those that are now just finished, and those that are under construction, will represent nearly 60 pst. of Norwegian power requirements. We're also going to discuss a climate report, how many of the solutions are about electrification. We know that we're going to need too many more dozens of terrawatt hours this year in this country in the future. And then adding up to further exports out of the country through a cable that only intends to import European electricity prices with 3 centimetres per kWh, in the view of the Centre Party, is not good policy and will lead to industrial leakage. What happens then to Saugbruks in Halden, who will get higher power prices? What happens to the aluminium mills, which will get higher power prices? Well, they want to move out. And where will they move? Indeed, they want to move to markets where the power is much more dirty than it is in Norway — for example. to China, how much of the energy comes from coal power. Let me see here -- I just have to get black Heggelund on everything. It was ACER, North Pool, and I've been in power exchange. Then I guess we've gone into a dialogue phase over the monologue phase.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5352	Stefan Heggelund has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5357	I thank you for the answer, but it still doesn't depend on the answer. When you say you're against market forces, as they're called, being raw – yes, you have to be against the fact that we have power cooperation in the Nordic region, which is market-driven. It has to be linked – otherwise it is for market forces to grow at some point, but not elsewhere. It doesn't make any sense at all, it doesn't mean anything when the words come out of your mouth. Then there are many things that affect power prices in Norway. For example, one thing that will affect power prices in Norway is: If we get more industry. I'm for more industry in Norway. It could make the power price of the industry that's already here higher, but I'm still up for it. But I am also in favour of building more renewable energy. And that's what's the point: the government parties' policies are linked. We can hold a debate and have coherent comments on these matters. I'm afraid the Center Party can't do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5364	The President is a little uncertain as to whether the use of agricultural tools in describing the policies of other parties is quite good, but let it go. The representative Ole André Myhrvold has spoken twice in the past and gets the word for a brief remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5371	I'm not going to spend a lot of time on it, but the central party's policy is connected, and I wonder why the Right is so interested in importing European electricity prices into the Norwegian market. That's still a question. Then there's something about being part of the Nordic electricity market, so it's not said to expand that market. We as consumers are not present at all markets at all times. One must also be able to make some priorities on which markets one wishes to be part of, and the Central Party believes that Norway will not be served to be a fully integrated part of the single European energy market. This will lead to higher power prices in Norway at the expense of Norwegian industry, Norwegian jobs and Norwegian consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5378	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5395	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5402	Today we are discussing a matter of a long history: the establishment of power plants in Röldal-Suldal with the suppression of Valldalen. The concession for the installations was granted a time limit in 1962 and is now to be transferred to two thirds of public ownership and become time-limited. The consolidation model, designed by a Central Party Council of States and adopted in 2008, has provided the basis for the transfer of a concession from a time-limited concession to a time-limited concession giving certain conditions. It is therefore up to the Ministry to decide on such cases, all the time when the Storting through its decision in 2008 has seen the framework for such handling. Furthermore, the NVE has been added to the NVE for the management of open audit cases and is managed by guidelines for the revision of concessional conditions for watercourse regulation, set out in May 2012. However, when there has been a matter in the Storting, I would like to thank the Committee for its thorough and good work, where we have now landed on a number of comments and suggestions that we think care for the parties to the debt, while these are firmly anchored in the consolidation model. In this case, the concession and rights of the concessionaire will be passed on, and existing concessions for the RSK facilities will still be in force. There is therefore no justification for requiring new concession management. It follows from the process in such cases that once the Department has handled the conversion case, the NVE will take decisions to open the audit case, which Bru has also called for in his letters to the Committee. There is an opening for large value transfers in such a transformation, since in this way the country will in reality separate values that would otherwise have returned to the country in the future. There is also a loss for the host municipalities that will not have access to up to one third of the values from the relapse. Here it is worth noting that in time this was also problematic and discussed when the consolidation model was attached, and the central party state council Riis-Johansen was also clear that compensation should not be granted as a result of loss of income. However, a majority in the Committee calls for one in the audit process to assess whether there are specific professional circumstances that favour the setting up of nutrition funds or other economic conditions based on existing practices and guidelines. It has our great commitment in the matter, and the committee asked that it be put up for written hearing. In particular, municipalities and communities have been active, and it has given the Committee a good understanding of both the historical perspective and the societal challenges known by having such an action located in the countryside. The Committee has received many detailed input into what should be considered in the forthcoming audit process, and we are confident that when audit is opened, one will find good, agreed solutions, through dialogue and open processes, such as securing power supply, industrial workplaces, local interests and municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5425	The president regrets that something went wrong with some clocks, so one didn't get a signal when the time was up. But then the representative had plenty of time to complete his post.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5430	This matter is demanding, and the Workers' Party is pleased that we have raised it in Stortinget. There has been a strong commitment from the local population in Röldal, nature organisations, Hydro and Lyse, but not least from the rapporteurs in Suldal and Ullensvang. We know that they wanted a new concession and that they're not satisfied with the result. I can assure you that the Workers' Party has worked hard within what is possible for Stortinget. For us, it has been very important to ensure that a majority of leaders benefit the local population and industry. Nor can we see that we would be able to get a better result with another majority in this case. The Council of State has confirmed that the audit case will be opened as soon as the application from the Light Force has been processed. The majority are now in favour of prioritising this review of terms and conditions. There are today over 40 audit cases pending for treatment. We believe that the scope of nature intervention and the time aspect defend the priority given to Röldal-Suldal. The legislative amendment of 2008 provides private opportunities to cooperate with public-owned companies, so that the concession becomes unlimited in time. Hydro has made use of this possibility. Therefore, there is no basis for treating Röldal-Suldal as a new concession, but if there are very special considerations, it can be opened up to food funds, as Ullensvang and Suldal want. The majority have demonstrated this possibility and referred to the nutrition funds in the Decision and have asked the Council of State to ensure that this is carefully assessed. We feel that the arguments of the municipalities are good in this matter. We have also urged Light, on our own initiative, to come to Ullensvang and Suldal to meet about this nutrition fund. The plant has led to extensive natural interventions, with dried foot, suppression of 18 steels in Valldal and the regulation magazine close on the building, with the disadvantages it brings. The arrival of the mountain is also strongly highlighted by the local population and the rapporteur in Ullensvang. There are large values now transferred to the new company. It has been a little surprising to see that there was little attention around this when the law was passed in 2008. It was an important legislative change that guaranteed public ownership of the hydropower. Renewable access is crucial for our competitiveness and the transition to less climate change. Hydro has now secured power for both Karmøy and Husnes. However, if we are to succeed in achieving more renewable energy, those who bear the costs of the disadvantages of the power plants must also be compensated. We've seen what resistance wind power has created on land. Therefore, we expect the power industry to contribute to good agreed solutions that the local population in Røldal sees fit to serve, but that also help to develop more forward-looking low-carbon industrial workplaces.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5449	There is a lot of history in this matter: about the hydropower and the significance it has had for both Norway as a nation and for local communities, and about interventions that had several sides. We've probably been able to see the power production, the value creation and the workplaces that the hydropower has given us, but we also have to say that Røldal-Suldal Kraft shows that it's not just positive, everything that's happened. Then I am thinking not only about the establishment, nature intervention and construction of the power plant, but also about the implementation of the existing concession agreement and how it has been complied with. I understand the disappointment of the person concerned when one sees that the fall-back will not happen, that the 2008 transformation will result in large value transfers to the state and to the host municipality. But it is important to take into account that today's debate is not about the amendment of the law from 2008, but is a consequence of the change in the law that was made under Jens Stoltenberg and Lars Peder Breck in the red-green government. So what's the matter, and what can we do on Stortinget? Hydro's power company has applied to the Ministry for a change of ownership. Such a change of ownership, if the requirements for public ownership are met, will involve a concession that is converted into an unlimited concession. It's after today's law a right. Many people have contacted me and want the Storting to stop this case, reverse the case, start a new job renewing the concession on the plant. But it is now time for the Storting to take account of previous decisions. If someone wants to challenge the amendment from 2008, it is probably a full opportunity, but this case is not the right place. I have no problem understanding the frustration that some people feel. Individuals have paid a high price, but it also sees the majority behind the position today, and we want with our decision that the facility should not be in the ordinary queue for auditing, but be given priority. Because there is no doubt that there are areas that are more than mature for an audit. The majority have been clear in their comments, and we expect the review of the conditions to ensure that the different points of view are respected. Priority shall be given to local nutrient development in Røldal, and the Light Force itself has brought forward missing roads, winter traffic, Noblefoss water flow and the height of regulation in both Røldalsvatn and Valldalsvatn. Finally, I want to repeat what I have said several times: that I believe in Light Power as a new owner of the plant, and that they facilitate good cooperation with local and interested parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5470	The thing we're dealing with today is a broken story. The story of Røldal-Suldal power plants is the story of the great community that overrun the local population in its eagerness to build up new power. Back, deep wounds – human and natural. Norwegian industrial travel on Norwegian hydropower resources is often produced as a success story, including by us in the Center Party. But history has reverse pages. Energy production rarely comes or never comes without conflict. Some of the things that have made it easier to bear have been the strange right of return and the premise that it is the community that bears the cost of the extensive natural interventions and that is to be rewarded for it through favourable financial arrangements. As a result of the EEA Agreement, Norway lost the so-called ‘removable case’ before the EFTA Court in 2007, allowing Hydro and Lyse to form Light Power and take over Röldal-Suldal power plants. It will be a very profitable company, with a power production of around 3.2 TWh this year. It'll give an annual value creation of about 1 billion. kr. This value creation illustrates the values that the community makes available to the large community. If the Röldal-Suldal plant were built today, it would look different. It would have been taken into account in a completely different way in terms of nature, climate, geography, business, local culture and community. It's hard to reverse this. Local communities will also be left with major wounds and interventions in the future. When local communities and municipalities have required an audit of the environment, it has been pointed out that such audits must wait for the concession to be renewed in 2022. So now we're in the situation that Light Force is given the concession for the installations forever, so-called unlimited time concession. In the concession application, Lighte Kraft asks that «otherwise the concession be continued under unchanged conditions». A new concession as requested would mean that the modernisation of concession conditions could be postponed from 2022 to 2051, in the worst case. The Röldal-Suldal installations will then be operated on the basis of the same concession conditions for 90 years. In the view of the Center Party, it will be a strengthening of the injustice that many in Röldal feel. The wounds will remain deep, and it is essential that the concession treatment also opens up a revision of the concession terms, so that the community can have a fair review and the opportunity to repair some of the wounds created by seizures of large areas, lack of requirements for minimum water supply and frost smoke, to mention something. Røldal lives 60 years after the plants were put into operation, with the consequences of significant natural interventions. In the view of the Centre Party, the local authorities' claims for commercial funds are fair and proportionate, in view of the values represented by the power plant annually by its owners. I'll bring that up with the suggestions the Center Party is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5487	The representative Ole André Myhrvold then brought up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5492	This case well shows that hydropower expansion has not necessarily been or is a magic form, which several have believed. We have decades behind us with quite extensive and hard-handed hydropower expansion in large parts of the country, how important natural areas and the interests of the people in the countryside have suffered. This has also often been the case for major protests by nature conservationists and local communities, but many of the expansions were unfortunately carried out. What is important now is to get ahead of the audit work that has been going on for many years, both in Røldal and Suldal, but also elsewhere in the country. This is an audit work that could bring more life back to life in the river, and that could help to save some of the valuable nature that you unfortunately let go to play in earlier times. That's why we're happy that there's at least today a majority to prioritize the revision of this expansion, when the government has dealt with the application from Light and Hydro. But we should have wanted the majority to go even a little bit further. Let this matter be an important reminder for the future of the extent to which natural interventions related to power generation can be.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5501	In this case, I would say that it's a bit positive, and then it's a little strange. I'll start with what's positive. We now have an important discussion about the price of nature and the consequences of major expansions and major degradations. This expansion, which was a very large expansion, was one of the reasons why we came to what happened to Alta, and between there there were many great demonstrations. It has its price to carry out such expansions, even if it generates large revenues. And that's right, here we're talking about billions of income in dollars, but also a huge loss for landowners, for residents and for the areas of Röldal and Suldal that have been affected here. 17 meters with damming is significant, and a broken foot – it notices many. The second thing that's positive, in addition to the important discussion about the price of nature and the consequences, is that we're going to have an extended conditional review in this watercourse now. The third thing that's positive is that the majority of this case rules out the role of case handler. We have left proceedings to the Department and the NVE. I am glad that we do not take that role in Stortinget, although it is an important matter. All the honors of the Workers' Party representatives, who have been involved in promoting the case, who take a step back and understand that role. Here it is possible to influence through the decisions we are making here today. So until what's a little strange in this case – the proposal makers of the Centre Party, which I don't understand, can agree with the Center Party in 2008 and the consolidation model, which does not understand retroactively, and which, in relation to the 2008 Decision, does not understand the role of compensation and which subsequently pulled up the lift, but tries to drop it down again now. What's even more strange is that this discussion comes 14 days after the Central Party actually voted to lift the watercourse protection plan, and what a debate one then brings us into about major expansions and what compensations one should contribute to, when the representative Myhrvold in a previous debate said that we should build out tens of terrawatt hours with renewable energy, and that the watercourse protection plan is actually what we need to get started – it's a little hard to understand. We have a wind power debate fresh in memory, which also stems from when the Senter party was in government. It's about time someone wrote the book about the confusion of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5517	First of all, thank you to the host municipalities Ullensvang and Suldal, the Landssamanlujah for the hydropower municipalities and others, for their strong commitment to getting this case to the Stortinget. Without their commitment, the concession had probably been made forever without significant political demands, and it had been a purely scandal. The background for the case is that in 1962 the Stortinget decided to expand to ensure enough power to produce industry in the West. There were no stringent environmental requirements – schemes that would be obvious today to compensate the host municipalities. But then the decision was that the concession period was valid for only 60 years, and then the entire facility would fall back to the state under the law of the fall-back of 1909, and the host municipalities would be allocated up to one third of the value of the power. But, as you know, this part of the fall-back system was endorsed in a ESA verdict, and unfortunately, the red-green government and the rest of the Stortinge chose to bow to the sentence and adapt the law. That's what's why it was possible for Hydro and Lyse to carry out the merger with a new, eternal concession, which then contradicts the Storting assumptions of 1962. The rapporteur in the host municipality of Ullensvang referred to this as a gulf in which the host municipalities will lose future revenues of several hundred million dollars annually for eternity. The host municipalities, the landowners, are now at risk of being left with crumbs, unless the Stortingen provides fair compensation schemes and strict requirements for the environmental audit of the entire plant. It's in the setting shown to the Kvönang case. One knows that the municipality and the neighbouring municipality were eaten with a one-off amount of NOK 500000 each. None of the proposals we believe go far enough to guarantee that the host municipalities will receive the compensation they are entitled to, and we therefore promote the following two proposals: ‘The size assumes that the current stringent environmental requirements for hydropower deployment and environmental audits are taken into account in the conversion of Røldal-Suldal concessions to new concession conditions’.» ‘The reduction assumes that the new conditions of compensation for the host municipalities and landowners of those facilities shall be based on the assumption of a fall-back after 60 years adopted by the Stortinget in 1962.’ If the proposals were to fall, Red will subsidize minority voting by the Central Party, SV and the Green Party. With that, I'll take up Red's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5535	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5540	It is requested that the conditions for a time limit and a setback in the concessions for Röldal-Suldal power plants be converted. The application is based on the fact that the plants are taken over by a new public company, where the municipal property Lyse owns 74 pst. The Ministry of Oil and Energy now has this matter for consideration. Let me first make it clear that changes in ownership of the power company and revision of concession terms are two different issues. My department is now examining the application related to changes in ownership. It follows from watercourse legislation that, if there is a public ownership, the application for conversion shall be granted. This provision was incorporated into the Law in 2008 as part of the consolidation model. In the event of renewal of the concession, the new power company will be given long-term access to power within the public ownership principle. This will strengthen value creation and secure industrial workplaces in the area. That this has a great value was also something a unanimous Committee on Energy and the Environment joined in May 2016, when the government presented the so-called ANS/DA model. The Committee then stated that it considers it important ‘that the amendment of the law helps to provide power-generating industry with stable access to power on commercial terms and within the framework of public ownership and control of power resources’. So without this model, this would not be possible. Several have shown that the installations built in the 1960s are a major intervention in nature, which has led to lasting changes. There is no doubt about it, and the community has also paid a price for it. Unfortunately, these are natural and inevitable consequences of hydropower expansion. Environmental conditions will be the subject of the forthcoming review of the terms of the concession. Here the NVE is the responsible authority and the audit case is to be carried out in a thorough and sound manner. Questions about economic conditions have been raised and this will be assessed in the audit case. Some have claimed that the audit cannot take place before 30 years. It must be a misunderstanding. The audit will begin immediately after the handling of the conversion case. Here I would also like to mention that in recent years the Department of Allocation has asked the NVE to give priority to the work on the revision of older regulatory concessions. The main objective of an audit is environmental improvements, but in principle all the conditions of a concession can be changed. This also applies to economic conditions as an industrial fund, even if practice is restrictive. In any case, it would not be right to advance such an assessment now, even before the Ministry has dealt with the ownership case and before a conditional audit has begun at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5555	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5560	Thanks to the Council of State for the article. There are a lot of people from Röldal who are listening to us now, and a lot of the questions have been about just a confirmation that the audit will be opened, but also about what such a conditional audit involves. Is it possible for the Council of State to repeat what it says about environmental elements? Because as I've understood it, there are a lot of local people who refer to the experiences they've had in dialogue with Hydro so far. – I would appreciate that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5569	As I said in my post, when we deal with this matter, there will be a condition for auditing, and there will be an audit case when the matter is completed in the department. Then, of course, there are environmental improvements. Hydro has also pointed to some things. They've been in dialogue with the municipalities, and I think it's positive. It is important to ensure that these matters are treated in a non-discriminatory manner. I have very much faith that the NVE will do a good job with it, also in dialogue with the affected municipalities and the landowners, because I have a great deal of understanding that it is desirable to look at what you can do. It is also the whole point of a revision of such an old case, because this was built up at a time when it was almost not required at all. The clear aim is to bring about environmental improvements, for the benefit of us and those who live in the area.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5578	The second question — which was also addressed by the Council of State but on which it is possible to further clarify and which has been important in this majority decision — is whether the Council of State will provide a thorough professional assessment of the very principle of special consideration. We experience that at least the two host municipalities have argued very strongly that the extent of the intervention and that it has taken so long – 60 years, etc. It was supposed to do that, but we don't have to go to the end here. Can the State Council assure the Storting that one will go in and make sure that there will be a good professional assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5583	I can of course answer that a short and concise yes to that I want to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5588	Nice!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5593	I would like to thank the Council of States for their comments and answers also in the previous questions. This is a case that has created deep wounds, which we have been in, wounds that have in no way grown, and which may not be able to grow properly. The aim here cannot be to remedy all the damage; it must be to seek relief and compensation and justice for the community and to provide for measures that can contribute, for example: changing conditions of water flow and availability, and the damping of ice scotches. Now the Council of State, as I understood it, went a long way in saying that a conditional audit will be opened immediately after the owner's concession has been given. Can the Council of State say anything about how long it takes for the NVE to carry out a conditional audit?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5600	It is a little difficult to answer just how long it will take to carry out the audit itself. It's about just being able to have a good professional assessment and do that job in a good way, so it's a little difficult for me to answer. But as I said in my post instead, there will be conditions in this transformation case on access to audit. I suggest that the NVE will open that audit immediately after that conversion case has been dealt with in the ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5606	Thank you for the answer from the Council of State. I would like to ask a little bit about nutrition funds, because the Council of State in its letter to the Committee goes a long way in rejecting the possibilities of nutrition funds, and she wrote in the Haugesunds Avis on 4 February that the affected districts get very well out of it. In addition, the municipalities dispute the calculation of income used by the Council of State in its letter to the Stortinge, showing, among other things, that: to offset the natural resource tax in the income system. Furthermore, the Council of State claims that the case is almost identical to the so-called Elkem case, where the requirement for a nutrition fund was not met. It is wrong the way I see it, because both the course of events and the concession law were different in the Elkem case than it is in this case. In this case, business funds will be relevant, as the Watercourse Regulatory Act does not impose restrictions on which conditions can be revised. Will the Council of State deplore the characteristics of municipalities and districts and will it ensure that the nutrition fund requirement is properly addressed?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5617	First, I strongly reject the fact that I have come up with some characteristics of a community. I haven't done that in any way. I have explained to the committee by letter how the revenue from these power plants is distributed across the different municipalities. I record that the municipalities have disagreed in the way I have presented the figures. I still think they're right. I do not think it is reasonable, for example, to do so. shall exclude natural resource taxes because they are equalised through the income system of the municipalities, not to include property taxes because they are not classified as an energy tax, or not to include concessional power because that benefit involves compensation. I think you have to look at it, but it's true that it's not net. I have also written to the committee that I could inform you about, but I think we need to see the whole thing. There can be no doubt that power municipalities in Norway in general come out better than many non-power municipalities, which are quite natural, given that they actually relinquish natural areas of our common good by producing power.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5622	I want to repeat that about the Elektem case, which the state council claims is almost identical. Both the course of events and the concession law were different in that case. The question is then once again whether the Council of State will ensure proper and objective treatment of the requirement of nutrition funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5627	It is true that there is an opening to also look at the economics of an audit case, but this is not an audit case I have to deal with in the ministry now, this is a change of ownership issue. There it is not allowed to set such types of conditions. I think it's fascinating to see a party turn around so your back to your own party is the architects behind it. I must seek equal treatment when dealing with these matters. I must then support myself and look at what you have done, and what the law says about how to deal with these matters. The audit guidelines, which point to the very restrictive practice of imposing industrial or other economic conditions in audit cases, come from Ola Borten Moe, when he was the Council of State. He wrote the audit guidelines. The second is that it was Terje Riis-Johansen who presented the changes in 2008 saying that there was no provision for compensation in such cases, and therefore that was not the case in Elkem cases either. It's fascinating to turn your back on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5634	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5641	I want to start by showing you the brilliant article from Ole André Myhrvold. Röldal's development has been dramatic for the countryside, it's created permanent wounds. There is no doubt that in the 1960s the focus was on increased power generation and industrial travel. The industry actually owned power, and there was a connection between power, production and industrial development. Today the power is sold on the open market and is no longer connected to the industry in the same way. When the conditions for Røldal-Suldal power plants go from relapse to permanent concession, new concession conditions should be imposed. These are very large values, as opposed to 1 billion. kr in annual income. The conditions when it was built in the early 1960s were such that the building was overrun – or as Hydro himself writes in the book on expansion: there was a very skeptical relationship of strength between the community and Hydro, which was at that time the very idea of industrial construction. The expansion has led to major interventions in Röldal. The Valldalen was an active valley with both solid and large areas that secured the Röldal gardening area enough for active operation. High regulatory heights present major challenges with access to the undimmed area – including in Röldal Waters with 17 metres of control height in the centre, which poses major challenges for the countryside. How you look at nature interventions has changed a lot in 60 years. In order to become a permanent concession, it should be clear that the instrument must adapt to the current demand for nature and not least to the local population. There must be a minimum of safe entry on both sides of the Valldals magazine throughout the year, natural water level in Røldalsvatnet in summer and minimum water flow in Novlefossen in summer. There's a foundation for nutrition funds here. There are special reasons, and I can't see that one sees other things that can be compared when it comes to non-discrimination. For a long time, there has been a desire locally for environmental audit, which has been postponed by referencing to a relapse. It has high expectations locally - and it now appears not to be implemented. It is shown here to 2008, that this was when these changes were made. Yes, I would like to remind you that it was Hydro that pushed forward the changes in raising cases for ESA. If the proposal by the Right and the Advance Party had been passed in 2008, there would certainly not have been any mention of public ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5656	No one who has been in the Valldalen in Röldal and has spoken with the villagers about history can be untouched. Valldal was the largest coal valley in the West with rich natural resources. In a picture of the Valldalen before he was pushed down, it looks like a paradise. Seats were the basis of life for the entire agricultural community in Röldal. Power expansion has created huge wounds, the villagers have felt overwhelmed and superior. It wasn't just a valley that was dimmed down, it was also an entire community. Lars Seim, who is the basic owner, has recorded this in a hearing opinion for the discussion in the committee: Röldalsbygda must live with wounds in nature forever. Many of the old people who experienced this were never quite the same again. There was a trauma that lasted a long time inside the soul until the last day. I understand that this is trauma that the Röldals community is still living with. The expansion and destruction had never happened today. When the Council of State Tina Bru in Haugesunds Avis states that the municipalities covered by the expansion have come out very well, it is a provocation. You have to understand that. The host municipalities that have worked for several years to modernise the concession conditions in Röldal-Suldal have not met Hydro. They have shown that the new concession would be renewed in 2022. It's great things, but it's also simple things, it's many years of broken promises. The Valldalen is inaccessible to many parts of the year because the road is not accessible or dangerous. Røldal water is not regulated, the phosanes are dry. In the case of commercial funds, there should be no doubt that this is possible and necessary, for there is a very special concern here. It's extensive natural intervention, and it's a very special story, it can't be compared to other things. So it's quite clear that one has to have new concession terms that give nutrient funds to the two municipalities that it owes. Environmental measures such as minimum water flow and better regulation of Röldal water must be introduced. In a call from the basic owner layer, reference was made from Röldal City Council in 1962. There they say that they do not agree that a concession was granted, but then it must also be used and sacrificed as far as the concession applicant is concerned to try to remedy the damage caused by the serious deterioration of living conditions in the area over which the very power build-up in the first row will go. So it's now 60 years after that fight. The Storting can do something about it today, but then you have to be clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5671	Hydros Röldal-Suldal power stations are some of the worst natural disasters we have experienced in Norway. The Röldal community has suffered enormous damage, and when Hydro now avoids a relapse, they make huge money. We're talking about a net pre-tax income of nearly 1 billion. kr annually and the present value is between 20 and 40 billion. kr. If the power plants had fallen back to the state, there would have been a new concession treatment, and the host municipalities would have a legal right of up to one third of the value of the facility. As the representative of Halleland from the Progress Party said, there are large transfers of value from the community and community to the power plant owner Lyse-Hydro company. Neither the Lights, the Hydro, nor the State Council have said that new concession conditions need to be imposed in connection with the new concession. New concession terms are slightly more than today’s ‘conditional audit’ practice. The content of the new concession conditions must include both the grant fund for Ullensvang and Suldal municipalities and comprehensive measures to alleviate the disadvantages caused by the brutal development of power. The current audit case threshold, which includes the two actions of industrial and environmental funds, is currently set at such a high level through practices from the NVE and the Ministry that it is of little value. At present, special attention is required to grant nutrition funds, and there is a threshold set by the Ministry, not the Stortinget. The centre party does not agree that such requirements should be imposed on old, large power plants such as Röldal-Suldal. The development involves such enormous natural interventions, contrary to today's environmental legislation, and Röldal must live with the brutal interventions forever. Powerplant owners must therefore be informed by the authorities to settle separately. The centre party has received many worrying reports that such cases on new concession terms take years to implement – yes, in fact 10–15 years. This has to end. It must be completed, it must be completed within a few years. That should be the rule and not the exception. Natural assessments must be used for the new concession terms and Lights must pay for this when the NVE says it is open for the treatment of new concession terms. Municipalities must submit an investigation programme for the assessments to be made in connection with new concession conditions. State councils have to show here that Hydro and Light are going to separate, one can't run away with the enormous values without correcting the injustice.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5682	I feel a little need to clear up a little bit in this debate, because I feel that the debate that the Central Party has now had in several speeches here is a debate that will come later, in connection with the revision of this facility. We're not there now, so creating the impression that there are no conditions here that should be set, here you won't have a thorough review, is wrong. Then I also feel a need to remind the Center Party – when they come up with all these concerns and think that this should happen differently, and that should not be so – that they have to take responsibility for themselves designing this law, and that they themselves design these guidelines for auditing, which is what I am dealing with. I have to do that. It would have been very alarming if I were not to relate to it. When it comes to this issue of a fall-back, the impression is that there would be a fall-back to the state if this solution had not come to the table. I don't think so. I feel reasonably sure that there would never be a relapse in this case, and that is because of the consolidation model, which the Center Party put forward when they last ran. There, the Center Party was fully aware that this was going to be the outcome, because they wrote: ‘There is an opening for significant value transfers in conversion, since in this way the State will in effect decline values that would otherwise have returned to the State in the future. There is also a loss for the host municipalities that will not have access to up to 1/3 of the repatriated values as determined by the Industrial Concession Act. Homelessness, on the other hand, is not a goal in itself. It is essential that public ownership be implemented within the framework of the consolidation model.» So this was the center party completely aware of would be a consequence. The Guidelines for the Review of Concession Conditions, written by Ola Borten Moe, state: ‘Economic requirements are not normally subject to audit either. Particular consideration must be given to the possibility of imposing on industry funds and other economic conditions in audit cases. This also applies to financial compensation for environmental disadvantages.» But this has to be considered in the audit case. I am not here today and neither is I shooting nor rejecting anything at all. It would be completely premature and at the wrong time. We are now dealing with the matter of conversion in the ministry. If the Center Party were so worried and so worried about this, they could have written different guidelines. Nor have I registered that they have proposed, but they could have done so, or they could have taken this into account when they presented the consolidation model, and outlined a solution to compensate the municipalities in general, now that the decline in the new model was no longer a reality. But they haven't. Then I have to say, as an apropos, that I share the commitment to the environmental values. I share the commitment to the disadvantages of large power expansions several years ago, but it would have been nice to see the Center Party show the same care for the protected watercourses that we actually have today. But they don't, because that's where they propose to expand.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5705	First, I have to remind the minister that we have not actually said that we should build a protected watercourse. What we've said, is that we'll see if it can be possible for some places to build up in connection with flooding and other things. It's okay to listen to what we're saying. I want to go back to the Progress Party, which believed that the new owners were good owners and wanted to take care of the community. Unfortunately, the experience of the owners who have been there and the 60 years that have gone by is that it has been very difficult for the community to get good cooperation with the owners. It was difficult to get simple arrangements that would make it easier for them to access the valley. We could have discussed this matter at a later date, but unfortunately the Stortinget is not going to deal with the audit, so it is important that we give a clear and clear signal today about what is expected of what is going to happen. One could always discuss whether it was wise to go in for the new rules, but it was actually to ensure Norwegian ownership of the force in Norway that one was forced to do so. And that's how, as the minister also said, there's a special case, and if there's no special case in this case, then I don't know what power development case and what concession terms to deal with, which is a similar case. There are clearly special relationships in this matter, and then there is actually a foundation for a nutrition fund within the current legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5716	Of course, we recognise that the community has taken a large part of the burden with the interventions done in Røldal. Of course, we allow ourselves to be influenced by the history that is told – carefully done for from this pulpit. At the same time, it is that in a country with a system of government that is owned by Norway, self-esteem is difficult to measure in crowns and ears, but it is based on trust between governmental powers, business, civil society and otherwise. If we have broken a principle and regulations through democratic processes, where we have pointed forward and illustrated the consequences of the decisions we make, then the big community must expect us to stick to the lines that have been drawn up. When the principle of private to public ownership consolidation and transfer was agreed, Röldal-Suldal was also part of the discussion. It was the centre party that was the architect of the consolidated model that underpinned the transfers, and to Lundtigen: there is actually no basis for a new concession in this case. That today's Center Party has an approximation where they're trying to give a glimpse of the fact that it's possible to jump from the decisions that a previous one has made is quite demanding. It is demanding for the local population, who get hopes that the Storting cannot meet, and it creates unrest in a power industry that wonders if they can rely on the frameworks that have been created. We now hope to be at ease with this matter and are confident that the new company, Læse Kraft DA, wants to find good cooperation relations with the municipality and the community. That's what they've got to focus on. Open and transparent processes are important when they are being launched. So the upgrade of plant and the revision of watercourses will in any case bring with it jobs and activity associated with Röldal in the years to come. We now hope that it will be possible to look ahead and use the scope given by the revision to create trusting and good dialogues between those who will live together in a relationship, as long as we have the power, which has been considered to be close to the adventure.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5732	This summer – it was a beautiful day – I was together with a lot of big business representatives from Hordaland and one from outside Hordaland. We were present in Röldal and saw how they experienced this, and we got very good insight into what has happened over the sixty years. But that is why the Labour Party has also been involved in promoting the proposal, and we have gone into the matter thoroughly. In fact, when we go back to 2008, which many people have been involved in, I have been surprised – and several others – that so little was discussed the challenge of private ownership with public, up to a third. And the only one who is here today who was present when it was adopted is the representative Lundtigen. The Labour Party has been committed to finding the best solution for the future in Röldal, and we experience, as we were also confirmed by the inquiry here, that the review of terms and conditions should be given priority, and that the Council of State will go into a thorough examination of this with special regard. Then, in addition, in the dialogue that we have had with Lights, we have been very clear that we believe that they – on their own initiative – should meet the two host municipalities to fill the food fund that is already there, because they have actually had a small nutrition fund right from the start of Hydro's plant. At least the working party is very satisfied that we have managed to get such clear signals and found such a good solution. And I repeat: I know that there were bigger expectations locally, from both the rapporteur and the local, and I have had a lot of exchanges by e-mail to try to explain how things are related, and I understand that for the local people it can be a little complicated with all the different concepts. But I hope that they will now see that this is going to go through. Once it has been reviewed, a conditional audit will be opened, and then environmental considerations will focus, but also nutrition funds will be part of the debate. But apart from that, Light can also do something on its own initiative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5745	We've been to a lot of history in this debate. We need to take the step and look forward now, and it is important that locals also participate in the initiatives to get a good conditional audit. They have the right to support it, to that competence. We have also discussed this in several other matters, including: in the notification of wind power — that there has been a slightly different practice, a little different competence. It's a responsibility that Hydro and Lyse also have: to contribute to Røldal-Suldal getting that competence, and that Ullenswang gets that competence, to make a good review. One might say that it's going to happen quickly, but to me it's important that it happens in a good way where all considerations are taken care of, and that it lays a foundation. Because we're doing a lot of conditional audits now, a big review, and Røldal-Suldal is going to move forward in line. As I said, there is a long-awaited revision that will now come. Then it is important that we keep track of the roles – what the Storting should do, what the ministry should do, and what the NVE should do. We've had them in Norway for over 100 years. In general, they have served us well, but sometimes it shows up things where you can highlight areas and put things on the agenda, and this matter has done so. It has brought many of us into the committee into both important history and important opportunities, and we have them in the way we grasped, but we are not going to take on all those roles in the Storting. But the hand bill for Suldal and Røldal here is to agree to acquire that competence and accept it well, in order to get as good a review as possible for the interests you have locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5752	The centre party will be attacked in this matter. We were so far forbidden by this, but when the Right Party and the Progress Party in particular criticize us for the decision taken in 2008, it is that if the policy of the Council of State had gone through in 2008, Hydro would not have been going about public ownership. The company could have achieved over 100 pst. by the power concessions of Röldal-Suldal power plants directly. It's easy to stand here and criticize the Center Party, but what do they mean? What is the will of the Right and the Advance Party in this matter when one thinks about what they stood for in 2008? I have received recordings from fundamental owners such as this stove, which points to a change in the Act from 2017 as a reason why Hydro has apparently seen the community checkmate in this matter. I don't know enough about that. I also don't see that the committee has gone into it. The point is that at least we think that there is a foundation for nutrition funds. There is very special consideration in this matter. Now I'm listening to the Council of States going to go into and evaluate this thoroughly – if there's any special concern. I see the Council of State as a government council concerned with nature and the environment, and I appreciate it. I just want to say that here there's actually a very special nature intervention, a very special story, and that there's reason to evaluate this as a special case in terms of economic compensation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5761	Right has nothing to be proud of. They have been against repatriation, they are contrary to concession laws, and their line has not been societal in any way on this important issue of force. This is a very special matter, and if the special matter is not to come under special consideration, I don't know. The special consideration is new concession terms so that the owner is required to settle separately. The representative, Eskeland, says that here it is the Center Party that has arranged for that to be the case. It is true that I was in Stortinget in 2008. It's been 13 years, and I've learned. I have learned that the job that was done that time was not good enough, and it is at least not good enough today. I'm afraid to say this, that one should learn. A lot has happened in the last 13 years. We don't have a similar case. When the representative of Eskeland says that there should be predictability, we are seagoing for it, but we live in a society that changes, where the requirements change in all areas, and that must also happen in this area. It was said that there is no basis for new conditions. Obviously, there is a basis for new conditions. There is a question of how the authorities are to deal with this matter. Of course, there is – what conditions should be set in order to settle the issue of nutrition funds and remedial measures. Obviously, conditions may be provided for minimum watercourses in both watercourses and waterfalls. Obviously, a condition that Røldalsvatten must be complied with within a specified period of time may be imposed. I have been involved in many such treatments. What is happening today is that these matters are being trained and run far in time. Here it has to be cleaned in a clearer way. The representative, Kjeseth, said that he was pleased that the Workers' Party has taken a step back in relation to the proposal on which they were associated with the Centre Party. I'm not happy about that, and neither is the Labour Party rapporteur in Odda happy about it. This matter is not finished. There's going to be one thing that the future government has to go into, and then I'm glad that the Center Party is so strong that it can give its way and get justice for the Röldal community. We can't have huge values taken out of society, and then it'll just crumble back to those who've largely got their society burdened with the destruction of nature that's almost like a trauma every single day.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5780	I want to be clear that I do not criticise the decision made in 2008. What I have criticized from the pulpit here today is the total lack of responsibility for what the Central Party itself thought, wrote and did when they put the matter before the Storting in 2008. So it's quite refreshing to hear the representative from Lundtegen actually standing here and saying that what we did was wrong. But what makes it a little funny is that had it ever been like this was an accidental consequence or something you weren't aware of would happen, I can understand that in retrospect you would say that this was wrong, here we did something wrong, we should fix this. And of course, the Center Party is free to do, but they wrote in the Proposition of the Storting on the consolidation model: ‘The power stations that could be subject to conversion are currently owned mainly by Elektem and Hydro. The first power plant of any size will fall back in 2021.» I mean, the thing we're now discussing. And as I said instead, one was aware that there would be a loss for the host municipalities, "that will not have access to up to 1/3 of the values that have fallen back. [[...]] When the Elkem cases were being dealt with in 2010, no food fund was provided, and then the then state council Terje Riis-Johansen showed that: ‘of the preparatory work it appears that the legislator’ — that is, the Central Party at the time, with the Stortinget and the majority — ‘were aware that a loss would occur for the host municipalities as a result of the loss of values that had been lost, but no decisive weight was assigned. It was assumed that no compensation would be granted as a result of the loss of income.» The Ministry therefore cannot see that there is a basis for providing compensation to the municipality as a result of the loss of income in the event of a fall-back. The centre party could possibly fix it then, in 2010, if they thought that what happened in 2008 was wrong. But you didn't because – and that's my claim – you were fully aware of it. Then one must also be able to take responsibility for it. Of course, when the audit is going on, whether there are special considerations to consider, as the guidelines also say. That's the assessment I want to make. But you have to take responsibility for what you have written. It's also not fair to the local people in Suldal to create the impression that this is something the Center Party doesn't mean, because the Center Party wrote this law. This only goes into the sequence of how the Centre Party has behaved in the last year. It was also seen in the wind power case, where they later did not participate in introducing green subsidies to build more wind power, or do not have a wind power concession system that made it go faster, and that is what we see the result of today, and that has created a lot of conflict and dissatisfaction. You have to take responsibility for your political actions. That's all I ask.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5807	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5812	Right will discuss history, not forward. Obviously, it's quite natural. The centre party takes responsibility for the fact that what was done 10–15 years ago was not well enough in view of the situation we are facing. I hope I don't have to repeat that. Time and conditions have changed. The situation is different today. This is a very special relationship. Nutrient funds and remedial measures — justice is at stake. The values given to the new company each year are so huge that they could well see that they were such values – and then one should get out of this without having new concession terms that can correct the wrong that has been done. The centre party is not going to surrender in this matter. Here it's going to be justice, here society is going to get back some of that you've lost.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5817	The representative of Nils T. Bjørke has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5822	You can go back and see, and there may be something you shouldn't have done. If an EEA Agreement had not been concluded, there would have been no change in the right of return, but the question is how far back to take that discussion. The last change was actually made in 2016, when it was amended in the industrial concession law on private minority ownership in water power companies. But the point is that one can actually be clear on this within today's legislation, because that legislation opens up to it. It opens up in special cases, and I haven't even heard anyone here who said this isn't a very special case. I don't think anyone who's been in the Valldalen can say this isn't a very special case. Then a multiple should agree that this is a very special case, instead of trying to hide behind paragraphs when one does not give the mandatory statements.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5829	I hear what the representative Lundtigen says, but I didn't quite hear what changed over the 10–15 years that said you shouldn't see that this was a challenge when you passed the law. It's not right, as the representative Lundtigen says, that you weren't aware of the great values. Because what I didn't read up instead, but that's the continuation of what I started on, is, as you wrote in the proposition, ‘The present value of the state’s failure in this way to meet its future claims for repatriation is estimated to be between 10 and 15 billion kroner, if all private-consolidated power plants are sold to the public under such conditions. The values are largely assumed to be attributable to the companies themselves, depending on the conditions they obtain with the public purchasers concerned.» It was known that these were great values.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-18.ana.ud422e5839	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox Today's map has been successfully debated. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
