ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e154	The President will recommend that the public gallery of infectious diseases be held closed during the meeting today. - I see it as a confirmation. The representative, Frank Edvard Sve, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e161	I have the honour to present a proposal for a representative on behalf of Sylvi Listhaug, Hans Andreas Limi, Marius Arion Nilsen, Tor André Johnsen, Morten Wold and Frank Edvard Sve – the signatures – to reduce online rent for Norwegian electricity customers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e166	The proposal will be dealt with in accordance with the rules. The President would like to point out that the setting in question. 25 in the meeting map has not been public in the 48 hours required by the regulations, cf. Rules of Procedure § 46. However, the President will propose that the matter be referred to the Court for a preliminary ruling. No objections have been raised against it. The President sees it as a matter of fact. Furthermore, the President will inform you that today's meeting, if necessary, will continue beyond noon. 16:00. Case No. 1-18 will be processed below one. The cases are the second time the law is handled and the law is governed by Decisions 11-28.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e381	I take the floor on case No. 12 and thus takes up legislative proposals. In the event of an incurrency, there was a lack of a word in the second sentence of Section 5-1 when the Stortinge was treated Innst. 51 L for 2020-2021 on guaranteed pension products this week. This legal note corrects it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e386	The representative then drew up the draft legislative note. No more people have asked for the word on the matter. 1-18. Case No. 19–21 will be treated as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e428	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes per party group and 5 minutes per government member. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, there will be up to four lines with replies from the main speakers of the parties and six lines with replies from members of the government. In addition, those who may subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e437	Let me first of all thank the Committee for good cooperation through this budgetary procedure and, not least, thank EN for the budget agreement we have in place, which I believe means a great deal in the important work that the Committee on Energy and the Environment will be doing in the future, not least trying to solve some of the major tasks ahead of us. We've just been out in the hiking hall with a press conference testifying to how important these themes that we're now going to talk about, in fact, are, not least for ordinary people around our country. Extremely high electricity prices are demanding and an economic burden for many. I think that this four-year period we're now in, is going to be maybe the most important four-year period in this century in order to solve the big tasks we have as a society, first of all that we can cut greenhouse gas emissions with what is the government's clear goal, 55 pst. by 2030. Already in the state budget, an action is being taken to meet those objectives in an active and clear way. There has just been a press conference now, in addition to the one that was out in the hiking hall, about extra bets on hydrogen, so one shows that one goes on. In addition to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 55 pst. Norway is estimated to have to create a million new jobs by 2050–2060. A million new jobs also depend on part of the input of climate and energy issues, not least that we can position ourselves in the future as an attractive host country for forward-looking industry, green industry, with zero emissions. Then there is a jewel that we have access to a lot of energy in Norway, because that is the energy that is the basis for us to cope with the climate challenges. I have been in many debates in this Chamber about the importance of the CO 2 tax. It is important, but without access to renewable energy, we can reverse the CO 2 tax as much as we want, without succeeding in the green shift, so that in the future we will be able to establish an understanding that we need to develop more renewable energy is quite essential. I believe that there is a common responsibility in this room also to facilitate that we can actually succeed in doing so, because it is quite essential to succeed in the green shift. In addition, more networks need to be developed. This harvest is a good example of different power prices in different parts of the country, just as a basis for it. The problems are big, and it's important that we succeed. If we continue the emission path with the measures taken by the Solberg government, we will end up with an emission cut in 2030 of about 20 pst. It's far from 55 pst. and shows that the task ahead of us is significant. There is no doubt that the government and the majority of the population as they have exercised and proved themselves in this budgetary agreement will succeed in doing so. We're going to be able to create more jobs, we're going to be able to cut greenhouse gas emissions, and we're going to be able to create new opportunities – in hydrogen and liquid sea winds, which are the industrial opportunities. We believe that developing and not liquidating the oil and gas industry is the bridge to the future, precisely because the oil and gas industry and its expertise, the environments and the technological power that lie in it can actually help solve the problems that the hydrogen question requires, that the liquid sea wind question requires, and that carbon capture and storage issues require. So we have very good assumptions for success, but the basis for success is based on, staples on, and has to sort of get caught up in that one will actually implement it. When a reader of the Hurdal platform, it is an approximate declaration of love for both energy, environment and climate issues. I am absolutely convinced that this government and this vast majority of people, as reflected in this budget agreement, will succeed in the great tasks. I address the proposal that the Labour Party is behind. Then, if I can, I'll just correct a remark error in entry 76. There is a wrong reference in a note, and I ask that it be corrected afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e466	Then the representative of Terje Aasland has drawn up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change. The president knows they've been negotiating for a long time now, but they get to take a line change too.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e473	The representative hired to show to the press conference that recently found its place outside the door here, and that what was being picked up was very important for the residents of Norway. Then it's quite striking that the Workers' Party has taken the order to postpone the new online rental model. According to Energy Norway, it is both practical and technically impossible to postpone the introduction of a new online rental model from 1 January. So my question is, why in all the world is the Labour Party involved in such a political game and such rhetoric when one claims that this is very important to very many families? Many families are likely to struggle to make up for themselves during the winter, so why in all the world is the Workers' Party involved in such rhetoric like this?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e480	All of them first: I think we will have a good opportunity later today to discuss the device on the power support package that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV presented in the hiking hall today. To the question: There is no doubt that the government that is now sitting is much more responsible than the previous government for the sky-high power prices. There is no obvious big change in the picture now compared to what was when the Solberg government presented its budget proposal, and there is no single comment that one is concerned about possible future high power prices. We have reduced the electricity charge, we have increased housing support, we have increased social assistance, we have made strong efforts towards the students, and we have now not least made proposals for a support scheme that will directly contribute to reducing the electricity costs of each household. I am quite proud of the measures implemented by this government and the majority of the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e487	It's striking to listen to this after-school clock. I thought it was very strange when the Labour Party did not bring this in the supplementary message, if there was a lack of it in the previous government's budget proposal. Nor in the budget agreement came what we are now negotiating and adopting today. Knowing that the Right Party and the other Party have expressed their views in the budgetary process, the Labour Party came very close to the heels and has spent a whole week tying up as one last Saturday put forward some ideas that are not entirely in line with what one has agreed with today's SV. The rhetoric that the representative has here does not correspond to the long-termity and the measures he is addressing. So why is such a rhetoric going on?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e492	5 B.C.E. NOK 5,5 billion. NOK, maybe $6 billion. kr through any decision or through any modification during that day is not negligible. It's not pimping and filth. The government has taken up a huge challenge, presented to Stortinget a very good, robust, solid system to help people in a very demanding time – and has delivered it. The size has not changed the scheme, but has strengthened it somewhat. I think that's good. There is no doubt that this government and this vast majority are now delivering in terms of the situation on the energy market. So to this with web rental: We have said that the prescription as mentioned in the new web rental model from 1 January 2022, we are postponing. We're not introducing it this spring. That's the deal, and it's pretty straightforward to deal with. If the broadcasters think otherwise, they can do what they really think is right, based on the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e499	The Government has submitted a draft budget and some support schemes. It can be summed up that Norwegian oil and gas have received a shot for the bow with this government. The climate is still high, and most people are eaten with crumbs. Tens of billions are collected; the electricity price has gone up crazy, and the government's revenues have gone up crazy. The state itself estimates – in response to me by Minister of Finance Vedum – that their own electricity costs increase by five and a half times. How can this government defend that you bring in a minimum of 13 billion? kr, as you estimate? It is said that VAT is excluded, because it is believed that people had used this money, and that the state had received VAT in another way – something that is a little sought after. But how can the government defend taking both hands and giving back crumbs?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e508	I thank you for the question. I am reminded of how lucky I am and how lucky Norway is that the Progress Party does not control energy policy in Norway. If the Progress Party had steered energy policy in Norway, it would have been private actors who had now taken advantage of the sky-high energy prices – both on gas and energy, or on electricity. I am very happy that it goes into the community, and that through the state we can make arrangements that help people – both with the electricity price, with school leisure arrangements, with kindergartens, with commuter allowances, etc. – that we get a more social profile, and that we have a government budget that has revenues that allow us to have sustainable well-being in the future. I don't accept the premise for the question, because if the Progress Party had run this country, these values would have been in private hands, and they wouldn't have benefited anyone in the Norwegian people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e515	The representative here is concerned about the climate, and that's good climate action. Nevertheless, it is disappointing that when the additional position of the new government is presented, it shows that by 2030, and according to the Ministry of Finance, climate change emissions would have decreased by 1.5 to 2 million. tonnes; it would have been higher with the government's draft budget. This was largely corrected by SV in the negotiations. However, it is still not as strong as the climate measures of the previous blue-green government's draft budget. Then my question becomes: Is the representative – since it is said that we should increase the targets to 55 p.m., and that is agreed by the Left – satisfied with the result of the government that has presented this autumn?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e523	I am very pleased that the Left also agrees with the government that we have to cut the greenhouse gas emissions by 55 pst. It is a major and important task and is about the security of the future. So I'm glad that the left will end up about it. What worries me is that what we took over showed – if you plot that path – that the emissions cut in 2030 will only be about 20 pst. This means that there is a need for more forceful action to be taken. I agree with that. So that's a worrying starting point. When we presented our budget option and got to the agreement with SV, I was convinced that it actually cuts emissions more than the previous government provided. It is about the facility for charges that are actually available, but also bets in new areas. And so it is that the Ministry of Finance has an easy way to calculate greenhouse gas emissions in terms of CO 2 or taxes, but somewhat more complicated they won't count on: emissions cut due to direct allocations to industry and facilitating industry to cut greenhouse gas emissions. I think we have to get climate budgets that actually take care of these objectives over time. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e535	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e540	It would have been tempting to start the post by commenting on the previous representative's posts in the knowledge and the broad, but I will stick to my own script. This harvest has had an exceptional impact on the power market. Electricity prices in Norway have been significantly higher than we have been accustomed to, and are in stark contrast to last year’s record low electricity prices. In this situation it is important that the Storting keeps his head cold and his heart warm. It is absolutely right to put in place exceptional measures to help ordinary people with the power bill at this demanding time. It is good that the government parties and SV finally came to the same recognition after first moving on to billions of dollars in the budget agreement without finding room for such a scheme. It says a little bit about the priorities. But it's also important to keep your head cold. The sky-high current prices we see now are mainly due to the rise in gas prices between 500 and 600 pst. in a short time and that the CO 2 prices have gone to heaven. Fortunately, it is not a situation that will persist, and there is no reason to rock at the base wall of the energy system that has often been built up by a broad political majority in the last 30 years. What should be clear is that we need to facilitate more renewable energy deployment. In the last eight years, 16 renewable-energy TWh have been expanded, corresponding to the power consumption of one million households. Of these, about half was wind power. The potential for wind power is much greater given that there is local connection to this, but the framework conditions need to be clarified as soon as possible. It has been decided that concessions for wind power on land should be subject to the Law on Planning and Building. Right considers that the changes in the law should be presented to the Storting at the same time as the supplementary communication to the Energy Communication, so that wind power on land can be assessed as a whole and that the necessary changes are adopted as soon as possible. The potential for sea wind is very great. By 2030, if the authorities keep pace, we can realize 20 TWh on Southern North Sea II and Utsira North. This presupposes that the framework conditions for development are fully defined as quickly as possible and at the latest in the additional communication submitted by the government before Easter. If we play our cards straight, there can be an enormous amount of sea wind on the Norwegian pedestal towards 2050. It is therefore essential that the government set new areas to sea wind as quickly as possible and establish an overall approach to the development of Norwegian sea wind resources and their role in the Norwegian energy system and in the European energy transition. Now it's not just sea wind that allows Norwegian pedestal to develop further as an energy resource over the next ten years. How we manage the socket will be crucial for the ability to achieve climate goals, to ensure access to power for domestic consumption, industrial establishment, community electrification, and to facilitate value creation and new green jobs. This harvest has made it clear that natural gas is a very important and necessary bridge to the European renewable society and that it is likely that natural gas will continue to play a significant role in the European energy mix for many years to come. In the longer term and on the road to net zero emissions in Europe, there is no doubt that natural gas can also become very important in the production of blue hydrogen. In order to succeed with blue hydrogen, it is essential that we succeed in developing cost-effective solutions for the capture and storage of CO 2. Norwegian cap has the potential to save 80 billion. tonnes of CO 2. There is a strong interest in Longships and the storage project Northern Lights, and Norway has world-leading competence and experience in the capture and storage of CO 2. In recent years, we have seen a new gift and willingness to invest in green solutions and new industries in Norway, and this has happened in close cooperation with the state. Enova and Innovation Norway have helped to realize the world’s cleanest aluminium production on Karmøy, the largest biogas plant in Northern Europe in Forest, supported what will become the world’s largest floating sea wind farm, contributed to the electrification of coastal car ferries, and today we have received exciting news that Enova has allocated money to three exciting hydrogen projects. It is positive that the government wants to build on this good cooperation between state and business, but there is reason to warn against the idea of establishing state competitors, for example. hydrogen company, rather than supporting technological developments in the companies already in the process. Through an enormous transformation in the coming years with significant emission reductions and joint efforts to achieve the sustainability objectives, the economy shall: Then it is very unfortunate that the government parties and SV choose to increase taxes strongly at a time when companies need equity to invest in new technologies and business models. State instruments do not benefit all enterprises, but higher taxes affect both small and large enterprises that are now preparing for a new future. Norway has the very best conditions to succeed in the green shift. We have technology, skills and capital, maybe the world's best skilled workers, and we have the tripartite model. This is what we're going to do! But it requires comprehensive political solutions that trigger all the opportunities ahead of us. At the same time, we need to deal with and respond well to the challenges of migration, not least for ordinary people. This job we have to do together by keeping our heads cold and our hearts warm.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e575	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e580	I quite agree that it is about making to keep my head cold and heart warm. It is especially important to ensure predictability and security for households and the various income groups around our society – but that's not why I asked for a line. I fully agree that we have many opportunities in Norway, and that is something we should be proud of, and that we should take advantage of. The right again uses taxes and the fear of taxes as a starting point for one not to achieve its objectives. When I talk to businesses, businesses, industry, they're very concerned that the state is setting up a partnership just to develop and make use of the opportunities. One of the strong findings of the Hurdal platform is that we are just going to succeed in the future, the state must play a more active role in the business world: to a greater extent burdening risks, ensuring that companies can make right and good technology choices and in a way that is able to implement the green shift. Does the representative, Mr Astrup, agree that the State must play a more important role in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e589	The state has played an important role in the transformation of Norwegian business for many years, and it will continue to do so. The production that the representative gives, that now there will be a change of pace, and that now the state is going to become active, is with respect to reporting hesitation – if it is a parliamentary expression. I showed from the pulpit a number of examples of large industrial projects that the state has been supporting. There are small and large projects across the country that are supported by the state and will continue to receive it. It is good that the three actors that received the support of Enova this year have all together received – i.e. during the Solberg government and the Enova budget they were down to – SEK 1.6 billion. kr. But it is clear that it also matters what equity and power the companies have to convert on their own. When SV, the Workers' Party and the Center Party increase taxes by 10 billion. For business, it is clear that it has an impact on the ability to invest in new technologies and to convert. If the representative of Aasland does not understand that, he should take a trip to the districts and talk to the companies. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e594	We have to try to stay within time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e599	Today, the Workers' Party, the Centre's Party and SV have been given a good emergency solution to help households with the high electricity prices. The right has criticized that this is too late. But already this summer, higher prices had been announced, and the Right-Registration was announced, but in Solberg's budget, there was no powerful measure to meet this announced power crisis. The right has not at all worried – if you look at their budget. Does the representative from the Right not see that it is really the Solberg government that should be on the track and have to take up the criticism that they themselves come with in these days?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e604	I could not have disagreed more. The spot price of electricity in 2020 was a little over 11 cents, and the first half of 2021 it was a little over 40 cents. The State budget for 2022, which the Solberg government presented, was made in August. No one could predict in August that the gas price and the CO 2 price would be at the level we now have. It was a concern that the power price should be a little higher than we are used to, but not these record power prices that we have seen in the last few weeks. So the government put forward an additional proposition; then the power prices had started to rise quite sharply without the government making a single proposal that really matters to people in everyday life when it comes to electricity bills. Then a budget settlement was presented, where billions of dollars were spent and taxes significantly increased for business, increased the yield from State Power, without prioritizing a scheme that most people would benefit from. This is stomping and dragging legs after itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e614	In the media today, we can read that the NVE director is out there warning against electrifying the socket because we need the power on the mainland. I have recorded that Right in very many speeches is busy with the environment and climate and electrifying the socket – sending the gas to Europe, burning it to power there and sending it back again. That's not exactly very logical. Can the representative explain why Right will go into something like this when the NVE Director is so clear that we need the power here, and that if we introduce such a measure, there will be a strong power gap in Norway? Why would Right go in for something like this?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e621	This is a very large theme that requires more than a minute to respond adequately to. Let me say it this way: I mean that Norway should not come into a position where we have to choose between forces for different purposes. We need to ensure that we develop sufficient new energy so that we have the opportunity to establish more green industry initiatives on land, so that we ensure that consumers have reasonable prices and ample access to power, that we get to the electrification of society that is driven not least by consumer behaviour by choosing solutions other than those they did before, for example. electric cars. Then, of course, we will achieve the climate goals to which the Progress Party and the Right joined when we joined the government and committed ourselves to the EU. This is a totality, but we have to manage energy policy and value creation policy in this country in such a way that we see the whole, and that we make sure that there is enough and abundant supply of energy, so that prices are at an affordable level for both consumers and businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e629	I heard the representative from the Right now say from the pulpit that no one this summer could predict the high prices. That's wrong. There are a number of actors, not least in the trade union movement and rapporteurs throughout Norway, who have warned against high electricity prices, among other things. as a result of new foreign tables. In the summer of July 27, she said, among other things: Tor Reier Lilleholt, a power analyst, that the prices were going to be high. Does not the Right take any responsibility for the current crisis we are experiencing now, with the construction of new foreign tables – NordLink and North Sea Link – and the impact it has had on Norwegian power policy and on the fact that we are importing European electricity prices?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e636	The claim that we import European electricity prices is quite misleading. Yesterday the UK had a spot price of 17 kroner per kWh. We're not close to it. Yes, prices have been unacceptably high in Norway, and it is therefore right to intervene and contribute to helping people pay the electricity bill. But fortunately, we are very far away from what we call a European level. Germany is three to four times higher than us, in France they now have problems with nuclear power plants, which are also far above us, and in the United Kingdom they have major challenges. So this is not a strange problem. Then the representative refers to an analyst who has also stated that if the gas price and the CO2 price had been at the last year's level, the electricity price in Norway would have been between 40 and 50 o'clock this autumn. State power – after we have had dialogue with them – confirms that it is the right image. It's probably right to say that here it was hard to predict that it would be so high power prices. Once that has been done, there is no doubt that the government and SV, the support wheel of the government, have drawn their legs and failed to act in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e645	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e650	The draft budget we are debating today is a strong budget for the development of Norway and for the achievement of Norway's climate objectives by 2030. The centre party has been a strong voice for climate action that works. If we're going to achieve the climate goals, we need more energy. The cheapest and least conflict-filled energy is the one we don't use. Therefore it has been strange to see that one of the lowest hanging fruits has long been ignored. To us, the old one-way term is an honorary word. Already in 2016, the Stortinget adopted a target for Norway to increase the energy efficiency of 10 TWh in construction. With this budget, we're going to spend 400 million. kr for energy efficiency improvement in households, and we ask the government to put forward a clear strategy to achieve the efficiency target. We set a clear course to achieve the goal of taking out the energy potential that lies in households and in construction, and ask the government to explain it fully. One of the most important things we can do to achieve the climate goals is electrify road traffic. We're doing well, but I think most of us who have tried on car holidays in their own country over the past few years, not least in the summers, have experienced challenges with both charging cows, charging stations that don't work, and a lack of reach anxiety because the infrastructure is not coherent. So even if the development of charging infrastructure is primarily to be market driven, there are still too many places in the country that are not yet within reach, and then there is a need for public support. I am pleased that this budget is clearly committed to developing more charging infrastructure where people still do not have sufficient access to high-speed charging infrastructure. Enova shall direct efforts to ensure increased circulation and use of electric cars throughout the country. That's why we're going to grant 100 million. kr to set this up, and hopefully the range anxiety will be slightly less, and we will experience fewer laughing kids in barn queue. In addition, this government is placing massive emphasis on green business conversion, increased hydrogen deployment, green shipping, emission-free land transport and zero-emission fuel infrastructure. The proposed allocation for these purposes will enable Enova to increase its efforts here. I can also mention, as has been said earlier, that this morning it was allocated 1 billion. SEK of Enova to three companies for green hydrogen investment. It shows a clear direction, a bet and a will. For eight years, Norway has been governed by a government with the main programme statement to increase the electricity price. They have also facilitated this, both by first liberalising the Energy Act and allowing private developers of foreign tables, and then giving private access to owning, but above all by consistently increasing the electricity charge year by year. All 50 pst. the Right Party and Advance Party governments increased the electricity charge from their accession in 2013 until they lost power now in the autumn. We have now finally turned that trend around. Workers' Party-Center Party administration has been ready: the electricity price is going down. And despite the fact that we are currently in a situation of historically high power prices, I am pleased that the electricity charge is now reduced by 2.9 billion. kr. It's an important signal, and it shows a new direction. So today we're going to make sure to help people with the electricity bill through this winter, but it doesn't stop there. This government's Memorandum of Understanding is diametrically opposed to that of the previous government. Here we need powerful measures to reduce high electricity costs, we need to strengthen consumer rights, and we need to put forward concrete measures to ensure that Norwegian renewable energy remains a competitive advantage for Norwegian industry and benefits Norwegian consumers. In my previous job, in consumer cooperation, we had a motto that we have to create and share. The Hurdal Platform states that the government will facilitate a large-scale investment in sea wind through an ambitious national strategy such as: includes bets on the Norwegian supplier industry, good regulation and development of network infrastructure on the socket. If we are to be able to share in the future, we need a strong commitment to new industrial ventures. Liquid sea winds have that potential, and it's to be built on the shoulders of today's offshore industry, which has served us so well. But even though we have both people, technology and competence, this is new work, and a bet is needed. It adds up to this budget. It is a goal that it should live and live people throughout the country and that people should have security. Norway is a country with a dramatic nature, and climate change also increases the risk of race and migration. This government greatly increases the appropriations allocated to NVE to prevent and protect against both floods and escapes. The budget is now 720 million. kr, and we increase the rate of insurance work and ensure that municipalities receive assistance from the NVE. Finally, I am very pleased that this government, along with SV, is now saying that it is ready for the launch of Bionova, a company that is going to help agriculture achieve its climate goals and ensure increased carbon bonding in soil.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e675	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e680	The representative spoke extensively about many measures, such as several charging stations and industrial construction, but only mentioned in a petition what we really need to realize all of this: building up more power. We can lose the whole power surplus in just five years. And the sea wind bet, which was mentioned in a bet, is in the brink because of the lack of political clarification. What is the central party in government's attitude to hybrid cables in the development of sea wind?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e685	It's absolutely right that we need more power in the future, and that's what the Center Party will really take hold of. We're going to make sure that we take out the residual potential in added hydropower. We will ensure that we continue to invest in solar and bioenergy, and that we take out the energy potential that is, among other things. in barley, as I mentioned earlier. In the case of sea winds, the government is putting up a strong budget commitment, which we were also in here. Marine wind will be important to ensure both competence, technology and peoples — the workplaces. We have a competitive advantage over this. The Hurdal platform is ready not to build new foreign tables, and that is the starting point of the Centre Party, even in the case of sea wind bets.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e692	I do not feel that this is completely clear. Is it so to understand that the representative looks at hybrid cables as foreignables, and that it is therefore impractical in the future – while most of the industry says that we need hybrid cables in order for the sea wind be profitable and developed quickly?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e697	I hear that some of the sea wind builders say they are dependent on so-called hybrid cables – but a hybrid cable is nothing but a foreign table with a windmill in the middle – while I record that large parts of the Norwegian land fast industry, like Elkem, are warning against this because they need more power in Norway. There's no problem for us to take that force in here. We'll get back to this. Now we have to make sure to realize the sea win which is.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e702	It's interesting to see how busy the center party is of history. In view of their history here, it is a little strange that they will be reminded of it with Europe's green battery, that these foreign tables and some other political decisions that have been taken that are not entirely beneficial in the light of today's situation. It's also interesting to see what they write in Prop. 44 L, on the electricity support scheme and on the fact that developments in the European electricity market have a major impact on Norwegian electricity prices through Norway’s external transmission links. By 21 September, they said that once you came to government, you had to look at rules and laws to regulate this. My question is: why has the Central Party in the government gone completely away from its own thoughts of limiting power exports abroad, so that Norway can benefit from renewable hydropower?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e711	Interestingly, that question comes from a Progress Party which has liberalised the power sector for eight years, which has wanted to build foreign tables on a private initiative and which are linked to Norway Acer. I record that the rhetoric of the Advance Party is a little different now than it was under Tord Lien and Terje Søviknes, who otherwise was also the one who gave concession to the last two foreign tables. The Hurdal platform is quite clear, and we are well in favour of it. Through long-term solutions and investigations, we will now look at how power exports affect Norwegian price levels, and we will look at powerful measures to ensure Norwegian industry and Norwegian consumers cheap and clean power in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e719	I am pleased that the representative addressed the need to electrify road transport and also that we need to develop a low infrastructure and strengthen Enova. Enova is already doing a lot to get an infrastructure with fast chargers in Norway. It will be in place in Nord-Troms and Finnmark, in Lofoten and also in Nord-Trøndelag. So here's a program. The previous government, and the Stortinget, have had a clear goal since 2015/2016 that all new cars should be zero-emission vehicles in 2025. This isn't on the Hurdal platform. There this has become a goal of fossil-free cars. Then I wonder: Is the representative satisfied that this target is being weakened, or will he still want only a zero-emission vehicle to be sold in 2025?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e726	We are pleased that we have a global and effective climate policy. For us, it is important to electrify passenger car traffic, but there are also other technologies on the market, and it is important for us not to distinguish between these, but to ensure that climate emissions decrease in road traffic. If you then choose to drive a car that goes on e.g. biogas or hydrogen or electricity – which we believe we need to be able to have equality.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e731	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e736	I could have been tempted and wanted to say that it was the sheriff of Nottingham and not Robin Hood who ran, but of course I shouldn't. But I notice that what we are experiencing today is that the government is making money because of sky-high power prices. Between 30 and 40 billion. kr will be added extra due to the sky-high power prices. We stood in the Horizontal Hall a little earlier today and got the right presentation from the government party plus SV on the steps one should take to meet that most people in Norway now before Christmas actually have to sit to freeze. When we hear stories that older people don't have the electricity in the apartments – and there will probably be a lot of people who have to pay for electricity instead of Christmas gifts and Christmas food – I just have to admit that there was very little new coming. And when you give 5-6 billion. NOK, but take in up to 40 billion. kr, then I think that a flea Norwegian people's wallet. I didn't think this room wanted us to do it like that. That being said, we in the Progress Party have been very clear that it is possible to take action, both now and from November. We had suggested already in September–October to cut the electricity charge, cut the VAT, which had given several thousand kroner in light for the inhabitants' electricity billing, and not least give cash support now before Christmas, which had given really easy of the electricity billing. We see that was voted down, and what one sees now, as I said, is basically just smular. I'm very surprised at the Socialist Left Party, which had all the possibilities to negotiate this deal to become something completely, completely different, and we see that it didn't happen. Then we're in a very special situation in Norway. There have never been such high power prices in the last 25 years. Prices have gone straight to heaven, and when one sees the basis for it, it is climate and environmental policy and what is happening both in Norway and throughout Europe. There is a power crisis in Europe, and one exports power from Norway, even if the magazine is getting empty, and in addition to that, we are going to be the European battery. When some parties also want to electrify the socket – to send our water force out onto the socket and then to send the gas to Europe and generate electricity as a transmitter back to Norway – it is almost impossible to see that something can be more inconspicuous than just that. When they say, we're forced to produce more power in Norway. We need more power. The party of progress has said that wind power says no to land, if it is not a referendum, and sea wind, then there must be consistency with both fisheries and other industries that can be brutally affected by it. With an impact statement, you get to look at it. But producing more hydropower, both small and new, larger hydropower plants, and not least streamlining the hydropower, it's open-source area that we're forced to enter. We need more power, we don't have to waste our power electrifying the socket, but keeping it in Norway. Then we have to dare to go in and do something about the export of force. I hear the Minister for Oil and Energy say that we can get reactions back from Europe if we limit exports – while the EU country of Sweden can only cut the flow across Norway, there is no problem, but we should be afraid of getting represals. It doesn't understand the signs very much. The main industry for Norway is and will be the oil and gas industry. When we see that there are some parties that want to eliminate the oil and gas industries and not develop the oil and gas industries, I am very concerned about the future and about the economy of Norway. We in the Progress Party want to develop the oil and gas industries, not liquidate, and we are very disappointed that the government is now postponing 26th round of search for oil and gas. So there are extremely many jobs that are at risk, and an industry that is the basis of the incomes of Norway, and that is what we have laid down in our budget. We have assumed that we need to strengthen the oil and gas industry, we need a good power situation in Norway. We could actually have been a hub for industry and business in Norway – and rather have foreign businesses and businesses to come to Norway and establish themselves here, instead of exporting it out of the country as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e755	Would the representative like to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e760	Yes, I will.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e765	Then the representative Frank Edvard Sve has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e772	After hearing the statement of the representative, one can wonder where he has been for the last eight years. After all, the Progress Party has run the Oil and Energy Department most of them, and at that time they have pushed up the electricity charge by 50 pst., they have not touched the VAT and never talked about it, and now suddenly you have a touching need to cut the electricity charge etc. We have also proposed a one-off payment of NOK 4000 in cash, but we know that the electricity prices will be high in January, February and March. This means that the government's proposal can actually give ordinary people more than the Advance Party's proposal on the one payment of NOK 4000. Does the representative agree that the government's proposal will give more to ordinary people than the one-off payment of NOK 4000?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e777	The representative asked me where I have been for the last eight years. I have our homes. I have not been in the Greatest, nor have I been in the Government. In fact, the party has made proposals to cut the entire electricity charge, and to cut VAT from November until April. It means many thousands in easy monthly for all the inhabitants. In addition, we want to cut everything over 50 pst. in the current calculation with 100 pst. One would like to look back, but I expect that the representative, when he looks out in the morning and sees half a meter of snow outside his carport, doesn't think it was completely empty there last year and the previous week. Seeing back is not very helpful. I think the representative had found the snowmower and the moka in front of the door, because it's like debt. One must look forwards and see what is happening today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e782	I want to take a little look back. In 2014, the Minister for Oil and Energy of the Progress Party granted a concession to build two new foreign tables, which are currently in operation. In 2015, the State Secretary of the Progress Party of the Ministry of Oil and Energy signed an agreement with nine other European countries – a joint declaration that set out how countries should move forward in order to remove the trade barriers and open energy markets in Europe. One of these points states that one should not restrict cross-border trade in electricity, even at high prices. The Progress Party was involved in amending the Energy Act so that private developers can build foreign tables, and they fought to report Norway to ACER in 2018. Does the representative Sve and the Progress Party think that these political decisions may have something to say because the electricity price is where it is today?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e787	Yeah, it's an expression that says that the cow forgot that she had our calves once, and we can probably go back and see what the Central Party council did in 2012 when he cheered for new cables to Germany. I think we have to put away what happened yesterday and before. I am elected to a game program in my game today. I'm a big-time representative here and now, and I choose to relate to the challenges that are here and now, in this room, because now we're going to do something about these issues. It's also part of the story that the Progress Party voted against Acer, as part of the Center Party, the longest in the spring. We've been able to figure out what line we want when it's related to both wiring and reducing the export of force to the rest of the world. I thought it was important to remember what I said about the cow that forgot that she had been a calf once.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e793	I agree with the representative, Sve, that we have to avoid for the most part that the electricity price becomes an extra tax that our society is not able to bear. But does the representative agree that public ownership of power generation is a good thing in this situation, because we actually have the means to help power customers with poor ability to pay?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e798	The public has a lot of resources, and I agree that we should not tax the inhabitants and the consumers. But it's hard to understand that the Socialist Left Party is going to agree to give only 5-6 billion. kr back to the inhabitants, when the same country takes in between 30 and 40 billion. DKK in taxes and taxes due to sky-high electricity prices. It is then especially that SV talks about it, because SV proves that when a haphazard enters the state due to sky-high power prices, one does not return it to the consumers who have actually paid it. There is also a monopoly area on network operation that should be driven in exactly the same way as water and sewerage, as the representative Kjerstad knows well from the municipalities. It should be a self-costing arrangement, so that you couldn't make money on it. It should be that the inhabitants got it back again. SV should have given 20-30 billion. kr i support for the inhabitants, not 5–6 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e803	In contrast to both the Central Party and the Advance Party, Red has not had ministers who have worked to sign up to Acer, build new foreign tables, nor have we signed a separate agreement with Germany that we should not intervene if prices increase, as the Progress Party has done when they are in government. But I notice that the Progress Party in the opposition has almost changed him. They copy proposals that Red has made, and deliver them to the Stortinget after we have promoted them. My question to the Progress Party is: Have they become power socialists in opposition, and will the Progress Party become market liberals again when they gain power?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e808	I can promise the representative that we will make suggestions about what is our policy. We're going to vote for what we're for, and against what we're against. I've said it before: I don't care at all about what has happened before in government or greatness. I believe that I am elected to the Stortinget now. We have a party program, and I'm assuming the representative from Red has something to do with it. That's what I do, and it's with the background of what we're doing. I'm going to keep doing that because that's why we're sitting in this room. There's an area where we can be some Red, but at least it's absolutely crucial that we use the money properly in this country. We need to have a good power generation in Norway, which benefits the Norwegian people and industry, so that we can have cheap power for our businesses and our inhabitants and let several of the companies out. That's our policy, and we're going to promote it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e813	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e818	We have an opportunity to create change together. After the election in 2021, SV has been in a decisive position here in Stortinget. Our voters now have the opportunity to get a census, to move on power and change Norway. The climate crisis and the inequality crisis will define the whole decade we are now starting. These two challenges are interrelated, and they have to be solved together. That's this decade we're building the country green to solve the climate crisis and equip Norway's economy for the future, and that's this decade we have to turn the increasing differences into less differences and more justice. By 2030 we will have to make enormous progress in cutting greenhouse gas emissions. In the SV's alternative state budget, we show how to cut Norwegian emissions by 70 pst. by 2030 compared to emissions 31 years ago in 1990. This is necessary for Norway to take the international responsibility we have to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees. We show our cuts, measures for action, tonnes by tonne. We come up with a very concrete policy that cuts emissions in industry, in the transport sector, in oil companies, and that delivers a historic commitment to new green industry, and puts the whole economy into a climate-friendly and fair Norway. Such a radical transformation will benefit the majority. Most people should get better out of the transition Norway is going through. That is why we are also pleased that over the last few days and the networks have negotiated with the government parties a power support agreement that helps those who are now struggling with the high electricity bills, and that helps those who are struggling the most, the most. It is an overall increase that has decided that Norway will carry out large emission reductions by 2030, but only one batch has presented a credible plan for how to achieve its objectives, and that is SV. We show in our climate budget the emissions cuts and the investment in green industry. One of the areas in which we have to carry out large cuts is in the oil companies. The Norwegian oil adventure has been important for our common well-being, but now we have become too oil dependent. The time is ripe for the conversion of the Norwegian economy. Fortunately, we have good assumptions for a green shift. We have highly skilled workers and have established a supplier industry. We have natural resources, and we have access to capital. All of this is absolutely crucial when we are going to build the future. We have entered into a budgetary agreement with the government parties where we have had a mass impact. One of the things we've come across there is to increase support for Enova by 700 million. kr. Today, the news came that Yara in Her Island gets 283 of these millions to bet on zero-emission production. That measure alone will cut emissions by nearly one million tonnes of CO 2. This shows that an SV in position, which is willing to use the position and its power, provides a concrete measurement for cutting emissions and creating new jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e838	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e843	The representative Haltbrecken and the rest of the SV want to cut the emissions by 70 pst. by 2030. Then I think you should take over how difficult it is. 55 pst. It's hard enough. Then you have to have 60 pst. cut in the petroleum sector, 60 pst. cut in industry and 50 pst. in the non-quota sector. But 70 pst. Cut -- I don't know if they believe it on their own. But that's not my question. My question is: When that is the objective, is SV satisfied with a budgetary agreement with the Labour Party and the Central Party, which at best goes in zero compared to what was proposed by the Left, Right and Christian People's Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e850	I didn't think I was going to experience that the Left was the party that was going to ask other parties to break down their environmental ambitions, but now we've heard it too. So the time of wonder is not over. To answer the question, yes, the consensus we have reached with the government, we are satisfied with. We also believe that it is going to lead to greater emissions than the Solberg government provided – we are sure of that. Let me just draw out some examples: I showed you an example, about Yara, in my post. We've got 700 million. kr more to Enova. We have increased the price of pollution for those who pollute the most: oil companies. We have increased the CO 2 fee by 28 pst. My time is up, but I'm sure I'll be able to go into the rest of the list in the next reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e860	But the increase in CO 2 tax by 28 pst. After all, it was the previous government that proposed it. What you have been involved in is, of course, to offset this with the user fee. The aid from Enova is well based on the increase that has occurred in the past. We've doubled the support for Enova in the last eight years. I hope it continues in the future. And it is good that SV has corrected many of the cut proposals that the government put into its additional proposition, but my question is nevertheless: Is this in line with the SV objective, or should it not be based on the budget of the previous government and tried to strengthen it in negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e870	We want more, we want much more than what is in the budgetary agreement with the government parties. But we have put in place important measures to cut emissions far more than the Solberg government. It's not right, as the representative Elvestuen says, that the Solberg government added up to an increase of 28 pst. in the CO 2 tax for the oil companies, for which we received an estimate. They would have half the increase; they would have an increase of the boisterous 15 pst. We have almost doubled that increase, because we believe that those who pollute the most should also be involved in cutting greenhouse gas emissions. Let me continue on my list: We have made changes to the one-off charge for fossil vans, which means we're going to get more electric vans. We have also been given the opportunity to look at measures to increase the share of electric cars in the leasing market. The list is longer, and I hope for more follow-up questions. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e888	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e893	I refer you to the small press conference that took place in the hiking hall just before we got in here, and where it was found that SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre wanted to postpone the new network lease, and that the regulation does not come into force from 1 January, which was planned. Energy Norway states that they have identified whether it is practicable and technically possible to reverse the systems that have now been used for months to prepare and implement and say the following to E24: ‘We have informed the departments and the magnification on this on an ongoing basis. It is therefore very difficult to understand why a decision cannot be followed up.’ What is the reason why SV forces it through a change that it is not possible to follow up? Doesn't the representative Haltbrecken feel like it's being a fool?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e903	In addition to the sky-high power prices we've had this winter, people have been worried about the new grid tariff schemes planned by the previous government, which were supposed to be introduced. I am pleased that SV has been able to see that the new changes and regulations will not be introduced in the spring of 2022. To Energy Norway and network operators who still plan to do this: they must prepare for a phone storm from angry customers. They must prepare for a loss of reputation that will weaken them. We will also look at – because it has been called into question – whether they are allowed to make these changes, according to current legislation. We'll see about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e910	I have noticed that SV has not really been so eager to lower the power prices in the difficult situation that has occurred, because in the alternative budget of SV there were not many tracks to lower the power prices. We're experiencing what happened in the hiking hall today, which is actually just a few smules that are adjusted to the original submitted by the government party. My question to the representative Haltbrecken is: when it comes from the department itself, after questions from the signatures, that the Norwegian state takes in at least 28 billion. kr extra due to the high power prices – it was without VAT, so it is probably close to 40 billion. kr – why then SV will give only 5-6 billion. kr back to the Norwegian people?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e917	The representative, Sve, must have followed extremely poorly when he says that it is between 5 and 6 billion. kr that goes back to people. The changes currently being made, both in the budget agreement and in the electricity support system presented, amount to more than 9 billion. kr. So here the representative should update his knowledge. In addition, the representative should read the SV's alternative budget and also look at the achievements we have gained in the budget agreement, which are just using a lot of these revenues to strengthen public welfare. Due to the high electricity prices, Statkraft gained increased profits, and part of the increased profits was passed on to SV to use on free SFOs, cheaper dental health – public welfare reforms that benefit the Norwegian people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e924	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e929	Red has repeated and will continue to repeat that we need a powerful and fair climate and environmental policy. I've heard other parties say that, too. The problem is that sometimes when they say that, there's kind of an excuse not to do anything at all. That is not what Red puts in a powerful and fair climate and environmental policy. On the contrary, that means we have to act here and now. We must use the muscles of the community to ensure that the way out of the oil age does not become a market-driven crash landing. That is why energy and environmental policy must be seen in the context of industrial policy, which we will also be discussing later in this Chamber. Energy is absolutely crucial to say all industries, and we don't least notice that now, during the power crisis. Therefore, we cannot sell the pure power to the highest bidder in Europe and thus risk flagging and shutting down some of the most environmentally friendly industry in the world, namely the power-generating Norwegian industry. We're playing with the European fire, adding up to more and more raw materials. The only industry that survives this race, at least in the short term, is the oil industry. Unfortunately, this industry is also the focus of the government. Despite the fact that the electrification of the socket looks fine on paper and in Norway’s climate accounts, it does not stop global greenhouse gas emissions. It's a disaster for the mainland industry that the clean power we have is to be extinguished, in the form of either electrification or export cables. The electrification of the base is also disastrous for nature. It facilitates massive wind power expansion, which threatens the diversity of species. We have seen for a number of years now that the authorities have been limping on local democracy, on Sami rights, and also not exactly acting as the school example in administration. There's something to think about for the so-called manageable parties. It's time to remind this hall that the most environmentally friendly energy is the one we don't use. Therefore, Red spends more on forest protection than the government does. We think it's hypocritical that Norway is building down our own natural CO 2 stockpiles while we're helping to preserve the forest abroad. It is obvious that the only measure that actually monies without going at the expense of nature, namely energy efficiency improvement, has been downgraded for a number of years. It's almost as I want – or it's not just nearly, it's so I want to remind the story of calling 815 493 00, because some people have forgotten the good old ones some of us learned when we looked at Kykelikos in the 1990s. We in Red have at least got on the bowler hat when we have written our budget and prioritised energy efficiency. The governance agreement with Enova must be renegotiated, and the arrangement must become more social. Enoch must be all-round and all-female again. I am pleased that Red in its alternative budget takes into account both industry, climate and nature, because only through joint, democratic control of the wind, water and power can we ensure that we have jobs in the future as well as a fair and powerful climate and environmental policy. With this I promote our proposals in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e951	The representative Sofie Marhaug has drawn up the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e958	Red says no to electrification of the base. Red says no to windmills at sea and to land. Red says no to the expansion of several hydropower plants. Red says no to oil and gas. Red is like the Workers' Party took up jobs in the districts. My question is, how do Red workplaces create red jobs based on these criteria, and how does a income guarantee for future generations?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e963	Thank you for the question. Red says yes to very much as well. We say yes to the mainland industry. We say yes to process industries and processing. We say yes to keep the power here at home, so that we can use it to have a processing industry and not just make ourselves a commodity producer. Red was ridiculed when we said no to wind power. We were told that we were backward and stupid who would not build wind power to land. We'll hear the exact same thing when we say no to the wind power at sea. But the truth is, we don't get the cap electrified with offshore wind power by 2030. That's what NVE says. It may be that the Workers' Party wants to throw all the administrative principles on the boat, and that they have not intended to listen to local democracy, but it has to be the Labour Party's case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e970	Red did not answer how this creates jobs, but it is not my follow-up question. Red only takes height for normal years, with normal water level, when they talk about power. How will Red secure enough power for the people of Norway when the water level is low and the wind is still?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e976	I mentioned a number of things that also lead to industrial workplaces in Norway. As far as power exchanges are concerned, the truth is that we have had power and security of supply since 1993, because we have exchange cables. What is new about the policy with which the Workers' Party has been and supported is that we have got clean export cables. We can keep the water level and keep the security of supply if we don't bottle down the magazines to make money.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e983	Red says yes to the mainland industry, but no to the mainland industry is going to need, which is increasing renewable energy in the years to come. Statnett has just presented a market analysis where they say that the demand for power is going to be huge. It is not luxury consumption that drives that demand; it comes from green industry in particular. It is from battery factories, data centres and hydrogen bets, and also from consumers who want to charge the electric car. In addition, if red is to run out of oil and gas industry in very few years, it will not require less power generation; it will require more – if you do not want massive unemployment. Once again, red has a problem, because the math doesn't go up. It is not possible to accept almost any new renewable energy deployment, while at the same time achieving the climate objectives and creating jobs. Red has said in the past that they do not need to be for increased renewable energy production, because they want to cut consumption. Then my question is, what green industries get no from Red, because they want to cut the consumption?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e990	I would recommend the representative Tybring-Gjedde to read Red's power plan, where we show both how to cut consumption, and where we're going to bring in energy, even in the future, to meet the energy needs that are. These include: about dropping the electrification of the socket, it's about slowing the export of power, it's about upgrading the hydroelectric power plants, and it's about improving energy efficiency. The situation today is not as pink as the representative draws the picture. The electrification of the socket actually goes beyond other industries. In Øygarden, a municipality in which the Right is running, the rapporteur agrees with Red that electrification of the pedestal is at the expense of the Langskip project there, which is a green project, and which needs the same pure force as today is going to electrify Troll. Right-to-Right-to-Right policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e997	The part of progress and Red agree on the electrification of the base. It is pointless and costly symbolism policy. It will do nothing for the climate, just move emissions to Europe. As far as climate policy is concerned, the agreement is likely to stop there, because before, the end date for oil production would have been red. Fortunately, they have removed it. I hope they have understood that Norwegian oil and gas are important for both Norway and Europe, it remains to be seen, but by August at the latest they had 70 pst. cut off climate emissions by 2030, and then without electrification of the cap, making this even more difficult. Norwegian oil and gas exports 7 TWh energy per day to Europe; the equivalent for Norwegian Wind is 10 TWh per year. What does the representative think: is one still opposed to Norwegian oil and gas, or is it seen that Norwegian oil and gas are very important for Europe in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1004	I thank you for the question. Red wants to phase out the oil industry. That doesn't mean we're going to turn the crane back overnight, that doesn't mean we're going to have an end date, because we think that's meaningless symbol politics, but that means we can't bet on more oil and gas production, that it's going to be the future. That means electrifying the socket is a very bad idea, because then we use the clean energy of more oil and gas instead of using the clean energy of other industries to replace oil and gas. We believe that we need to have an active state-run phase-out of oil and gas – no to search for more oil and gas – and rather build up other industrial workplaces. This must be seen in the context of what we are going to discuss later today, namely business policy. We have to get new jobs, not just lay down oil jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1011	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1016	There are high electricity prices in Norway, and there is a dramatic situation for people who have poor advice. But we're in a much more dramatic situation if we see what happened in the last year. The UN climate report shows that we are facing major climate change. The UN Secretary-General says it's code red for humanity. So we have to make big changes already for the next decade. It's actually that it's about doing what might seem impossible to get to, possible. We have to put an end to all fossil fuels as quickly as possible, we have to take care of much more nature, and we have to develop an industrial policy that will give us a global market economy in nature's resilience. At the Glasgow climate summit a little while ago, we maintained the goal of 1.5 degrees as the maximum heating for the globe. The summit was a step forward, but it is still a dramatic situation, in which all countries must follow up and strengthen their goals, and strengthen them even before the summit next year. It means that we need to do much more to take international responsibility. The effort to care for the rainforest is important. The increase in the UN Climate Fund is important. The same is true in international terms. The bet on the sea that the previous government started must continue. And we have to achieve our goal. The government has now set a target of 55 pst. reduction by 2030, and it shall embrace the entire economy. So we're going to go from 49.3 million tonnes of emissions in 2020 to 23.1 million tonnes of emissions in 2030. That means we have to cut at least 50 pst. in the petroleum sector. This means that we must have power from land, even if it cannot only be power from land. We must also look at solutions for local carbon capture and storage, where possible. There is a need for a strong commitment to energy efficiency improvement also in the petroleum sector, while at the same time having more renewable energy in Norway. We need more energy savings. The 10 TWh that we've set as a goal in the past, must actually be achieved. Then it's a little encouraging, as I also mentioned in the question round, that in the supplementary proposition, the emissions would increase by 2030. Now the SV in the negotiations has corrected some of this, but it is still weaker than the proposal from the Right, Left and Christian People's Party. If there is one thing I am proud of from the previous government, it is that we were able to conclude a climate agreement with the EU. Perhaps the most important thing we have done, and what ensures that we have to achieve the objectives in 2030, is that it is not a goal, it is a commitment – just like what we have notified under the Paris Agreement, with 50-55 pst. reduction is a liability. It is now also being negotiated within the EU on Ready for 55. Then we automatically become part of the quota sector. There is also a higher quota price in the years ahead. We also get a reinforced target in the non-quota sector, up to 50 pst. And there will be new rules for forest management and land use. Then I hope the government adds to a process that makes us include this legislation at the same time as it is adopted in the EU, otherwise we will be hanging out. For now the effort needs to be stepped up. We need to increase CO 2 taxes, we need to stick to the electric car benefits, we need to implement the Green Shipping Action Plan, we need zero emissions at all stages, and we need to follow up the climate agreement with agriculture. And finally, we have a natural crisis. This must mean that we should also have more nature in Norway. It has to end with proposals to cut forest protection products. It has to be reinforced. It has to be over that it's going to be cut in cleanup, like with Great Pulmonary Water. This must be reinforced in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1036	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1041	Not all policies appear as figures in a budget, but the new government will pursue a more restrictive predatory policy. It is time for the two-part objective to be balanced, and for the local predators to gain more power. There is a crisis in the reindeer in Northernland after eight years with the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party behind the steering wheel. One of the sides of Skjomen in the Nordic region has received State notice of compulsory winding-up. The team is halved on the right hand side of the government watch. Jerv, gloat, and eagles supply themselves roughly. Many reindeer can't slaughter calves. Yet their flocks are declining. Pasture is the renewable use of resources. It's circular economy. What was the reason why the right-wing government led a predatory policy that broke the backs of the reindeer in Northernland and that was not in line with the adopted policy of the Stortinge?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1052	The last government didn't. What Mossleth's representative says is wrong. The large numbers show a decrease in the loss of tamrein to predatory game. It's not as much as sheep, it's 50 pst. But it's probably about 10 pst. reduction, if I'm not wrong, in the last eight years. Just as in the two-part objective, in the reindeer areas there are less predators than in the predatory priority areas. What the previous government has done is follow up the decisions of the Stortinget. I'm pointing out that it's been successful. We have a strong grazing industry in Norway, just as we have also managed to maintain a predatory game management with predatory wildlife populations that have not led to increased losses.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1058	Like the rest of the opposition, the representative has criticized the government for having delivered poorly on the power package. Then I have taken the freedom to go in and see what the representative's party itself has proposed. Well, they have suggested NOK 750 per head for households that make less than SEK 1.2 million. kr. They have proposed an extra NOK 1000 in scholarships for the students. If we look at what the government has proposed, there's $1,500 in scholarships for the students and another $1,500 in loans, so they can handle this. In addition, we have launched a scheme that costs the community over 5 billion. kr, which shall benefit all households because they are all struggling with the electricity billing. Does the representative agree that everyone in Norway is struggling with the electricity bill and that the government's model is therefore better?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1063	No, everyone in Norway doesn't have to deal with the electricity bill. I don't, and there are certainly many in Norway with good returns that don't. But we have very high power bills, and that's a problem for many, so what the left has done when we've looked at this, is that we've always tried to target it the most towards those who need it the most. Now we have just seen the proposal that has been agreed on before we went to this meeting. Now we're going to consider it before the committee delivers its position, but we want the same basic approach: that we're going to give the most to those who need it the most, and not give the most to those who initially both consume and have the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1068	It was nice to hear that the Left took the time to drop a little bit into the current prices you are experiencing today, and the situation that many are in, before they moved on to what they care most about, namely the climate crisis, which is something only Norway can save the world from, and where we have to spend all the money and all the focus, obviously. To what is the question: When the Left had the Council of State, it refused to count on the forest in the climate accounting. From the current state council I have been told that only 25 pst had to be cut. in other sectors other than that, and that the target could be reduced and the money spent abroad. But what is most important for the Left, who shouts the climate crisis all the time? Is it as much cut per krona as possible, or is it the most expensive cut in Norway, so-called climate nationalism?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1075	This is the very basis of the Paris Agreement, and the Paris Agreement must work. This means that all countries must follow up their obligations and strengthen their obligations. That also applies to Norway, and there's no contradiction between that and the international responsibility and the international commitment that we have, so it's of course for the Left that we have to cut our emissions. That is why we have linked ourselves to the EU, so we have a common system for it, while – as Sweden, as Germany, as Denmark – we also set our own national targets, which go beyond that. It is true that we have not taken into account the entire growth in the forest, in particular the goal set for 2050 – which is legal, it is decided here in the Stortinget – that we should cut 90 pst. in Norway. It's possible. Then we have to stop using fossil fuels, and then we have to contribute internationally to the fact that the forest also binds CO 2. [[President clubs]] We'll go positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1085	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1090	In his speech, the representative, Elvesuen, said that we need to step up efforts in the fight against the climate crisis. At the same time, the signatory experienced criticism by the representative in the change of line here instead of having too high ambitions, for strengthening the response to the climate crisis too strongly. What I'm asking is, where's the left limit going? What is one too powerful effort in the fight against the climate crisis?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1095	In the climate context, only results are counted, i.e. the fact that they have actual emissions cuts, and as clearly as possible. What I pointed out is that there is no correlation between the description of 70 pst. cut and the amount actually included in the budget unit. What the left believes, is that we got a climate plan in place in ours, and when we're going to step up our efforts, that's what we need to strengthen out of. We have to actively use taxes and taxes, we have to drive out the support schemes that we have to get to the conversion and get them fast enough, we have to stick to the targets we have for just a zero-emission vehicle in 2025, 50 pst. reduction in shipping – all those areas – and see where it will be reinforced, and we need to be involved in all parts of EU initiatives, both ready for 55 and the other initiatives they have.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1100	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1105	For over 30 years, the climate debate has been going on in this Chamber. In the decade before I was born, the Brundtland report came. Since then, the world has had the Kyoto Agreement and the Paris Agreement. Both red and blue governments have constantly set new climate targets, but sometimes it can feel as if three decades of climate debate has been in vain. In 1999, the year I was born, the Norwegian CO 2 emissions were 55.6 million tonnes – 20 years later they were almost on the ground resting. Norway is not even close to achieving the goals we have set. On the contrary, estimates show that today’s policy will provide an emission cut of 24 pst. towards 2030. It's under half the government's promise. In spite of this, the government produced a budget in the autumn that cuts less in emissions than the previous government provided. What should have marked a change of pace in Norwegian climate and nature policy after eight years of bourgeois desert migration became instead a gigantic red-green bellyplaque. This government's policy does not take us where we are going if Norway and the world are to succeed in the fight for the climate and nature and the future of animals and humans. Fortunately, there is an alternative. Instead of making fossil cars cheaper, we cut the price of all public transport by 20 pst. Instead of spending the big money on oil and gas, we're moving the money to renewable energy. Instead of building down nature, we repair it. We depend on our nature and the species that live in it. When the red list was presented this autumn, both wild and wild breeds were on the list. There is a full alarm about the ecological collapse in the Oslo soil and about the threat to the coastal cod and salmon in the Repparfjord because the government will allow the dumping of 2 million tonnes of toxic mining sludge in the fjord every year. Norway is far behind our own targets for the protection of the sea and forests, and we need a shift in nature policy. We must preserve the nature we have and repair the nature we have destroyed. With the proposals of the Greens, Norway would lead the global fight for nature and animal life. In 2022 world leaders will negotiate a new agreement for nature. There is a unique opportunity for Norway to reverse the negative development in Norwegian nature and rather to go ahead and show the way in nature policy. That possibility should be grasped by the government with both hands. We propose two important steps for nature: the government will produce a national natural account and a natural budget with the objective of zero net natural loss by 2025, the nature positive by 2030 and 20 pst. improvement by 2052 introducing a natural tax Today it is free to destroy nature. It should sting in the wallet to destroy our inalienable nature. We are losing global competition for the jobs of the future, and surprisingly, for the Labour Party. The massive subsidies from the oil tax package provide a record high level of investment in oil and gas, even in fields that would otherwise be unprofitable. Investment in the petroleum industry is incredibly seven times greater than the total investment in our mainland industry. It's serious. The investment in oil and gas is distorting the financing of new industries and the availability of the wise minds we depend on to create the new climate-friendly jobs. I believe the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance will look back on this as one of the most serious misconceptions that this government has been involved in, and as a lost opportunity for Norway. In the Greens' alternative budget, we cut emissions by 80 pst. over the next eight years. At the same time, we're creating new green jobs. I want to draw out three concrete main bets. Firstly, we propose to introduce a conversion fee for the oil industry of NOK 43 per barrel. The revenue from the levy provides for the possibility to bet on, inter alia: sea wind. Sea wind is a cheek egg for Norway. We create jobs in the Norwegian supplier industry, we increase access to renewable energy, and we cut emissions. We're proposing to set of 3 billion. kr to a fund for sea wind next year, to start this investment now. Finally, I would like to stress the importance of the serious government coming on the road to secure the financing of the carbon capture plant on Klemetsrud. It is incomprehensible that the government chooses to jeopardize a clear-cut project like this, a project that will not only provide large emissions but will also develop technology and Norwegian jobs in a large and growing industry that will be crucial for achieving our climate goals. We therefore propose to ensure sufficient State aid so that carbon capture and storage on Klemetsrud can start in 2023. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1147	Time's up. The representative has to deal with the clock. I would assume that the representative wants to address the Greens' proposals to the Environment Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1154	I'd like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1160	The representative of Rauand Ismail has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1167	In the media in September this year, an energy policy spokesman in the Green Party says that the party will work for increased power costs. One wants to increase the electricity charge, to export even more power to the rest of the world and to build even more outdoor landscapes. It may be a special proposal, but how does my representative think that this can lead to Norway as a society going on – with the sky-high power prices we have today, a business that wears a lot, and gardening that is going bankrupt because of the power prices. How does the Greens want our society to be by increasing electricity charges, increasing electricity prices, increasing exports of power to the rest of the world, and not least building more extraterrestrials?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1174	I'm seriously concerned about the situation that very many people have been in. The access to warm up and brighten up the places where we live is fundamental to living a good life. But the force-nationalism of the Progress Party is not good politics, for the simple reason that it can cause increased costs for people, that it weakens our security of supply, and not least that it will lead to great interference in nature. We are to increase the electricity charge, but we are also to help them with poor advice on paying the electricity bill. It's a significant problem that those of us who serve the most use the most power – yes, some people even say that we're wasting the power – while people walk around saving and don't have the opportunity to warm up and light up their apartment. That's not how it should be. I am concerned about the increased electricity prices, but I disagree with the representative that our policy will hit them with the worst of advice. Our policy is to ensure that they are able to pay the electricity bill with the worst of advice. That is why we have proposed a cash payment, but that is also why we are pleased that the government has finally agreed with SV on a plan that will help significantly more people pay the electricity bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1183	The representative of the Green Party did not answer my question. How can the representative claim that a more expensive flow of our policy, which wants to keep the flow in Norway and get more power in Norway, which would lead to less competition and lower prices – while the Greens want to increase the fees, export more power to the rest of the world and build more power cables to the rest of the world? How is it that the electricity can be cheaper in Norway when electricity prices in Europe are high above Norwegian prices? Yesterday I saw that it was 18 kroner per kWh in England. The question is: Is it such a praiser that the Environment Party wants the Norwegian people to have?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1190	The MDG is for us to be connected to the European energy market. The reason is really quite simple, and it was also notified to the representative Sve by the director of the NVE: if we had only provided ourselves with our power, we would have had to expand some of the projects that had affected our nature, which had provided for unprofitable power projects in Norwegian nature. Today's power policy ensures that we divide the burden of producing power and that we share it with each other. It has some unfortunate outcomes, but we have to solve those outcomes with social policies and redistribution. We don't solve the situation by shutting off the cables abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1197	I drew myself in line because there are limits to how much black paint the Greens will conduct the government's climate policy. This government adds up to cutting more than any other government has ever done, and gets a majority for it. It's a very important thing. In addition, we will start with climate budgeting and look at the possibility of a natural budget. So all that the representative is working on, we're implementing. I have also read newspapers recently and am amazed at what the colleague of the representative says, that Norwegian electricity prices must be compared to countries in Central Europe. In Norway it is much colder, so we need to use much more electricity for heating. Does the representative think that the price level in Central Europe is something we should have in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1204	What is also unique to Norway is that we are a force nation. We make huge amounts of money that the power price is high, and that the gas price in this case has been high. Our solution is to distribute the money to people, either through what the government and the Swedish government have now agreed, to help people pay the electricity bill, or as the Green Party has proposed, a cash payment to people. My main point is this, and I am quite sure that Hansson was also involved in the media issue that the representative refers to: We have to make sure that people can pay the high electricity prices. You don't get to cut power prices over time, we need long-term energy efficiency improvement measures. We also have to make sure that when the power price is high, people can afford to pay it, and especially those who use the least electricity, but who are also hit hardest by the high power prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1211	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1216	There's a budget debate today, and it's time to raise a little bit of perspective. What this committee and the Storting will be working on in this field over the next few years is going to be absolutely crucial if we are to achieve the climate goals. For the Christian People's Party, we are proud of the government we were part of. We have already reinforced ambitious climate targets, submitted new targets under the Paris Agreement, and we have presented a climate plan with concrete proposals for achieving climate objectives. If there's something that it showed, it's that this is going to be demanding, this is going to be one of the most important, but also the most difficult jobs that we're going to have as a committee and we're going to have as a big deal in the next few years. But it is absolutely vital that we succeed. It is crucial for Norway, for what Norway will look like in the future, for how businesses can compete, in order to ensure that we have competitive, good and safe jobs. But above all, it is particularly important for the poorest, those who have not helped to emit so much CO 2 but who are going to pay the biggest bill, who will have to make a run for it, for which there will be serious consequences if the dramatic climate change strikes. That's why the Christian People's Party is concerned that we should intensify climate policy all the time. That is why we were also proud of the budget we were putting forward, where we built on some of the main instruments, where taxes are one of the main instruments, where the quota system and participation in the EU quota system are absolutely crucial for us to succeed in reducing emissions. Therefore, it was disappointing that the new government, when it came with its additional budget, chose to cut in what the Ministry of Finance estimated at between 1.5 and 2 million tonnes of CO 2, with the proposal that lay there. I am glad that there was some improvement in the negotiations with SV, but overall one cannot establish whether it was ambitious enough. In any case, we have to be able to find proposals together over the next few years. When something is taken out, we know that it becomes so demanding that we have to find new cuts, and it's going to be demanding for us as politicians. I thought I would draw up three points which I think are important with the budget that we have presented and which is being continued. The first is precisely the international perspective, because we are going to do a lot, whether it be transport, petroleum or industry, but we also have to contribute internationally. The Christian People's Party had a say in a climate fund. 10 B.C.E. kr shall be set off, and it may generate 100 billion. investment in renewable energy in the poorest countries. It helps to replace, or prevent, the expansion of coal-fired power plants, that one can expand new renewable energy. It's important. Access to energy is important for the poorest, but not least for a kitten to emit enormous emissions. That's an important priority. The second is almost a little forgotten, but we who have worked on this field over a long time know that carbon capture and storage has been one of the major issues of conflict year after year. If we're going to succeed in getting carbon capture and storage, we're going to be able to spend money on it, or is it going to be nothing? I was very proud when the Solberg government put forward Langskip, Northern Lights, the big investment that is the biggest climate project in industry ever. I am pleased that that project has been continued, and I really hope that we can succeed in getting a facility. But the success is not just to carry out that project. Success is if we can develop the technology, make it the shelf product, make it cheap, so that the rest of Europe or the world cleans up large point emissions and can help bring down emissions. It is important that we succeed. The third thing I thought I would mention is a change that means a lot, namely the change we proposed in the special tax on petroleum. There has also been a little under the radar after the election campaign, but there is an important change that is being made to ensure that the profitable fields are being developed and at least prevent the expansion of unprofitable fields. Time's up. I also have to deal with the power crisis with a few words. I am pleased that the government and SV have found a solution. Ideally, we should have found a solution that was even more targeted, and that went more to those who have the lowest incomes. I have great respect and understanding for the fact that there was no way to do that, and I look at the Minister of Oil and Energy, who has worked hard for the past few weeks to find a solution. The Christian People's Party believes that we should take a larger share. Not least we should have covered the November bill and got a payment before Christmas, but we should also have taken a larger share. One should remember that 70 centimeters per kilowatt hour plus VAT is an extremely high electricity price in itself, and we're talking about coverage of it over. I see and record that someone has landed at 55 cents. We think we should go for 80 cents. Finally, I just want to say that we must therefore continue the development of renewable energy. We've secured a huge investment in sea wind. It must continue – also in the case of hydrogen. There I just want to finish by saying that there was a happy news today early, that the bet we've had on Enova gives results, with three large allocations of one billion.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1245	To achieve climate objectives, the world must be able to replace fossil energy with renewable energy. As a modern developed country with a large oil and gas industry, important industrial environments and a significant renewable industry, the government wants Norway to actively contribute to, and benefit from, this global energy transformation. In order to create new jobs and cut emissions, the government will pursue an active industrial policy and invest in new areas such as sea wind, hydrogen and CO 2 management. The government is serious about the bet on sea wind. Therefore, we will contribute with innovation, industrial development and good co-existence with other industries at sea. We're going to prepare Norway for the future, and then we're going to have to facilitate value creation based on our natural resources, green jobs across the country and a fair transition. The Hurdal platform states that the government will facilitate a large-scale investment in sea wind. This is new work that requires sufficient resources and knowledge to ensure efficient and thorough processes. Therefore, the Government proposes to increase the appropriations allocated to the Ministry of Oil and Energy in order to strengthen the work on offshore wind power. The government also has great ambitions for the development of hydrogen as a climate-friendly energy carrier. Norway has very good prospects for success. We have the resources, the competence and not least the business community that wants to exploit the potential for hydrogen investment. The government, together with SV, proposes to strengthen the hydrogen investment. We are proposing to increase the allocation of hydrogen by 120 million to infrastructure and market development. kr in addition to the proposals of the Solberg Government. We are also proposing funds for a comprehensive investigation. Carbon capture and storage is necessary to achieve the climate objectives. The EU is now heavily committed to carbon capture, and four of the seven projects that received funding in the first allocation from the EU Innovation Fund were carbon capture projects. CCS is necessary in order to achieve a fair transition where we keep industrial workplaces in Europe. The Ministry works with Fortum Oslo Heer to contribute to the best possible application for the EU Innovation Fund in 2022. The government, together with SV, has proposed 15 million. kr more to Gassnova to assist in this work in 2022. Through the CLIMIT programme, we support pre-projects and studies at several of the major incineration plants. Together with SV, the government wants to further strengthen carbon capture efforts in the waste sector and proposes a further 10 million. kr for such studies in 2022. All over the country, there is a great need for protection against flood and slip damage. The government will increase the rate of prevention and therefore proposes to increase funding for NVE by another 60 million. kr in addition to the proposals of the Solberg Government. The total amount of funding allocated to NVE's work on flood and discard prevention will thus be more than 720 million. NOK 2022. In addition, the government is proposing $40 million. kr for additional scrubbing over the Svalbard budget. We have an exceptional situation in the power market with very high electricity prices, especially in South Norway and for periods also in North Norway. There are several reasons why electricity prices have become so high this year. We are used to the fact that weather conditions affect the prices we live here, but now the whole of Europe is also in a situation of record prices of energy. I'm really worried about people's power bills. That's why we've been working on blasts lately to find measures that actually work, and quickly can be implemented. I am pleased that we have now put forward a scheme that means that households get a deduction from the invoice when the electricity costs are exceptionally high. The scheme is in addition to the other measures we have already proposed, such as reducing network rental, increasing housing support and helping students with electricity. Overall, this will provide important support to those who need it for a difficult time. I'm glad that the Storting seems to agree that we're going to carry this out, and I hope there's going to be people out in the country for the benefit. Finally, I would like to say that it has been a useful debate and fun to follow the contributions of the members of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, and I look forward to the continuation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1265	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1271	In the post to the council we could hear that it was going to bet on sea wind, and that a now meant serious. But based on the debate here in the Chamber today, we might actually conclude that the sea win is over before it starts. In the magazine Europower Energie, Councillor Mjøs Persen confirms that the formulation of inter-national relations in the government platform does not apply to hybrid cables. Then it becomes a little funny when we heard the representative Myhrvold from the Center Party in the change of lines today, where he gave a completely different definition of this and said that intermediate landscapes actually are. So it would be interesting to hear what the government council thinks about the Central Party's definition that hybrid cables are an interterrestrial connection, which the government platform is very clear about not being built.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1278	There is no doubt that sea wind is a very important investment for this government. We are making this clear both in the Hurdal platform and – not least – through the increased allocation and that we have established a separate section for sea wind, where we are now reviewing everything that is about the framework and the framework for sea wind. The development of sea wind is a major industrial opportunity for Norwegian expansion companies, power companies and, in particular, the supplier industry, and the government has great ambitions. As far as inter-national relations are concerned, I do not think that is what this debate is about. This is about finding good solutions, and we're going to discuss that. The hybrid projects will undoubtedly have effects on the power system. We are now working on the effects and legal aspects of this, and the government has to assess those investigations before we can finalise on hybrid projects on Norwegian soil.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1285	I am mildly surprised to hear that the Council of State says that this with medium-sized landscapes has nothing to do with this debate. We're talking about having lower power prices, and there's something that can make us get lower power prices, it's massive bet on sea wind, as the government says it's for. Then I would just like to remind you of what Norsk Industrie says in her contribution to the director of the Ministry of Oil and Energy, that already in the development of the Southern North Sea II, hybrid cables should be built for the Norwegian power grid and for a third country, and that this is absolutely vital to get the sea wind going. Is there any government going to follow up?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1292	I just said that the government has to assess these investigations before we can decide on hybrid projects on a Norwegian base. This is what we are doing, and the marine wind generators also believe – as I have pointed out – that profitable offshore wind power generation requires the establishment of hybrid projects. These mean that sea breezes are linked to Norway and the rest of the world, but they differ from purely inter-national — as I also said in my place — because they are also linked to new power generation. It has been proposed to designate Statnet as a marine system operator, but who will operate at sea network planning has not yet been clarified. However, through North Sea cooperation, Norway has committed itself on a voluntary basis to, among other things. working to strengthen the hybrid network at sea, and this is voluntary cooperation which does not lead to the means for which the government will use it. There is a great deal of interest in sea wind among industrial actors, and the government is now working with different positions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1301	We have been briefed that the government and SV have submitted a package that will give approximately. 7 to 9 billion. kr, or what has been said – it is difficult to know the exact sum – back to people. But we have also received answers to questions I sent to the Ministry of State to the Council of State: it has been mapped that the state receives 28 billion. kr in additional income, in addition to VAT, which was not included there. What's the Council going to spend all of these extra money, 30 billion? kr – to which the State accepts as additional income, which is actually the money for the inhabitants and the business community, which has paid for electricity? Why does the government not want to return the money to those who have paid it?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1308	I do not intend to interfere very much with the discussion the Stortingen has during these days about how the money that comes over the state budget is to be distributed. I leave that to Stortinget to do. But I would like to comment on the power package and the electricity package law, which I have submitted. It has been presented because the situation in the power market is exceptional in both Norway and the countries around us. The power price has increased through the summer and autumn this year to very high levels and has significantly increased the electricity costs of households. That is why I have submitted a temporary law, in which we will return to the households and ensure that they have support from the state no matter how high the prices will be. What's fine with the system we've put forward now is that we follow the power customers all the way, even if the prices are higher than what we're assuming now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1313	I thought I would start by telling a well-kept secret. It's that the Council of State and I have a common past in Norway's National Government of the Nature Conservation Federation several years ago. It was very pleasant, and it was not least an important work that was done. My question is also directed towards some of the nature protection organisations and SV have been very concerned about, and that is a long-term measure to help people with the sky-high electricity bills. It is one of the most important things we can do both to cut greenhouse gas emissions and to save nature from unnecessary interference, and it is energy efficiency improvement. We've been waiting for eight years for the last government plan to reduce energy use in buildings by 10 TWh. Can we expect a reinforced effort from the new government on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1318	I can tell the President that Lars Haltbrecken was a very competent leader of the Nature Conservation Association at that time. In the budgetary agreement with SV, there is agreement to draw up a plan of measures to reduce energy use in buildings by at least 10 TWh by 2030 and also to increase electricity production in buildings. Of course, I want to put forward a plan for how to achieve that goal. I will present the plan in connection with next year's government budget. The Directorate for Building Quality and the NVE are now developing a knowledge base that will be important for further work. I'm also going to look at how we can increase power production in construction, and the government is already working on expanding the positive customer scheme, so for example. residential households can join forces to produce renewable electricity.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1327	I'm also going to reveal a past, but it's been a little shorter since, from this summer, when I and the Council of State demonstrated against wind power expansion. Unfortunately, I think the government is continuing too much of the right-hand policy on energy policy. NVE has said that they are unable to expand wind power at sea by 2030. The alternative is to throw all the management practices on the boat and get the speed up. Nor will it be good to take care of life in the sea. So my question to the Council of State is: The Council of State will work against wind power deployment to land, and how the Council of State intends to do so at the same time as it adds to the electrification of the socket, data centres to produce cryptocurrency, etc.?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1334	The representative Marhaug does not tell us that the event we were at was an event where all the first candidates for all the parties represented here in the Storting, plus some who are not represented here, were present, and all the parties were there and held their appeals. As I also said there, the Workers' Party is not fundamental opponents of wind power, but there are some areas where there are both local resistance, and where the cost of nature is too high for us to have wind power. So I can't guarantee that on any principle I'm going to work against wind power on land. On the contrary, I believe that where there is local acceptance, and where we are able to find good solutions in order to balance the consideration of nature and the environment, it would be a good idea to also produce power from wind turbines in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1341	The technology for carbon capture and storage is important to develop. We have Northern Lights and Norcem, but we also have the project on Klemetsrud, which unfortunately did not receive EU support in the first round, but it is 15 million. A new application was made in the budget agreement, which was also supported by the Left. We are not guaranteed to receive support then either, although probably everyone hopes it will come into place now. However, there will in any case be no increased support from the State for the implementation of the project. My question will then be: Regardless of how it is now possible to submit the application, will the Council of State be prepared to implement the carbon capture and storage project on Klemetsrud, with what it implies also through increased state support?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1349	First, let me just say that I share Elvesuen's commitment to CO 2 capture and storage. I am absolutely sure that we will not achieve our climate objectives unless we can solve the issue of CO 2 capture and storage. That is why I am also pleased – and emphasised in my contribution – that the EU is now betting on CCS, and that four of the seven projects supported are CO 2 capture and storage projects. Unfortunately, Fortum Oslo was not one of the projects that received support this time, but we hope, of course, that they will get it. It is because Fortum Oslo Heat can be a model for more than 500 waste incineration plants in Europe. I can stress to the representative that we will of course work to get it done. A continuation of this project may also monitor how we will get a new application. I don't want to pre-shoot the result of that, nor how we're going to follow it up, but I confess that we're going to get to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1363	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1368	On behalf of the government parties, I would like to start by thanking SV for good and constructive negotiations. Together, we have given Norway the greenest budget ever. In the Hurdal platform, we decide that climate and nature should be a framework for all policies. In this budget, we are showing in practice how to speed up the transition. The future shall be renewable, circular and sustainable. To achieve this, we need to halve greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 across the economy towards net zero and then the carbon positive. Our goal is to take Norway into a sustainable future with green value creation, high trust and small differences. The way there will require much of us, but humanity has made great progress in the past. We should remember that alternatives to succeed are to steer towards a future with more extreme weather, more floods, more drought, hunger and natural disasters. So the alternative to success is not an alternative. Luckily, we're not alone. Climate negotiations in Glasgow a short time ago were a global climate policy victory and for Norway. It was a double victory for research and for multilateral cooperation. COP26 delivered a crystal clear message that we have to try to limit the heating to 1.5 degrees. It may sound strange, but none of the climate summits before now have been so clear that the clear message from researchers, from science and from the United Nations Climate Panel is also clearly expressed politically from all the countries of the world, from all the delegations in the agreed final document from Glasgow. In other words, the facts got power. Nor are we alone here in our own part of the world, because although more and more representatives are constantly giving the impression that someone thinks Norway should save the world alone, that is not the problem. We have ambitious targets, that's right, but we don't have more ambitious targets than almost every other country that looks like us – not least in the European framework, where, through the Ready for 55, taxonomy and the European Greens, we are now seeing a very clear collection of forces to achieve these ambitious goals together. In the economy, what counts is what counts. Therefore, greenhouse gas emissions and natural values have to be counted as we count crowns and ears. To this end, we need to develop new tools in climate policy. The climate budget will help us to assess which policies we are going to pursue in order to adapt to our climate objectives – sector by sector, year by year. We need a corresponding budget for natural values, so that we can appreciate nature more and to a greater extent than we have previously known, we can know what it costs to build it down. We'll bet on Enova. It's been mentioned in the past that there's been a huge payout today, so we're increasing the total amount of Enova's appropriations by 750 million. SEK, to a total of SEK 4,1 billion. NOK 2022. 550 million. kr of which is related to technology development in industry, green shipping, hydrogen, etc., 100 million. kr goes to charging infrastructure across the country – especially where the market itself is unable to do so – and 100 million. kr goes to household energy measures. Climate change knows no bounds. That is why we need to think globally but act locally, and we are also increasing efforts for climate change to well over 250 million. kr. Norway is a port, the sea is an important climate solver, and much of the effort we see coming now in this budget is going on climate solutions in the maritime sector. I must also stress that the natural crisis is as serious as the climate crisis. We are nature, we live by nature, and we have to live in the pact with nature. So I'm proud that we're going to spend over 500 million. In this budget for various forms of restoration of nature, and if we include forestry and other things, we in Norway will have up to 1 billion. kr for restoration and conservation by nature. Not least, we increase the bet on the restoration of ants and other wetlands. The climate crisis is fundamentally unfair, affecting both geographical and social imbalances. A fair climate policy must be effective in order to succeed, but an effective climate policy must also be fair in order to last. The budget we have presented today is both.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1391	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1396	I was a little surprised when I heard the end of the Council of State's posts, for where the Council of State boasts of the bet on restoration of nature and protection. But what was alarming in the government's draft budget was, rather, a cut of 120 million. kr in voluntary forest protection. This was a cut that unfortunately got reversed, but it says something about the priorities of the Workers' Party and the Center's Party. We know that old forest binds more carbon than young forest. We also know that there are a lot of forest owners who have agreed on voluntary protection, but who are now waiting for money to be put in the register for compensation. And then this is not entirely tied to the government platform, because it says that the government wants to ‘strengthen voluntary forest protection through a more accurate voluntary protection system’. Then my question to the Council of State is, is a cut of 120 million. in voluntary forest protection a more accurate system?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1405	There is now no cut in voluntary forest protection, because voluntary forest protection is continued in the budget that Stortinget is now discussing. In addition, other measures to restore nature are increasing, including: moor and wetlands. That is why we have an increased effort for nature, not a reduced effort for nature. As I said, I thank SV for the good cooperation on the budget that we are now presenting. Then we say, and the representative Tybring-Gjedde has quite correctly perceived that we are going to work for a most accurate system because forest protection is very important. The current voluntary forest protection scheme is probably the most expensive way to do it. It is well known in many parts of the country that money has been given to protect so-called large amounts of forest that no one had any plan to mowing. We're going to work on making those arrangements as precise as possible in the future, but today it's the instrument we have, and I'm happy to say it goes on. And other restoration measures are being increased.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1414	I think there's a lot of people who have experienced being grateful for other parties in new and rescued cuts that you might personally be against. However, this does not prevent the fact that the Workers' Party and the Centre's first task was to cut into voluntary forest protection – in addition to having a government platform that goes a long way in removing some of the measures that are important for nature, among other things. to remove the prohibition of new cultivation of ants. I want to go a little bit more thoroughly into what's on the platform, because in the Workers' Party program, it says that the goal is 10 pst. the Norwegian forest shall be protected. This was also adopted by Stortinget in 2016, against the votes of the Centerpartiet, among others. But the interesting thing is that the wording of the government platform is almost identical to the Workers Party party program, except that the goal of 10 pst. has been removed. So my question to the Council of State is: is the target of 10 pst. the protection of forests still, with the central part of government?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1421	This is a goal that the Storting has decided, and the Storting has known me not to lift that goal, so it is there. But what we are now working for is to make it clear that what is often described as protection can be seen as sustainable use. There are natural areas that should be protected in the narrowest sense of the word, because they are unique and need special protection, but then it is largely a question of how we can achieve a much more sustainable use of nature, including the forest. We also have formulations that are quite new, and in my view both progressive and modern, that we should increase the total carbon capture in the forest, for example, and help nature to provide natural services because it is infinitely cheaper to let nature operate carbon capture and storage than building those plants will all be that we should also build for the same purpose. I believe that we have a progressive policy for both conservation of nature and, not least, sustainable use of the same nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1428	I'm not going to take the general climate policy, we've had a lot of discussions about that already, and I'll come back to that in my post later. On the other hand, I'm going to go into Enova, where the government says it's increasing to 750. It is well and good, but it is mainly climate action that is also going to happen. The population and consumers pay 400 million. And the government says 100 million. kr shall be allocated to energy-saving, energy-efficient measures. In light of the current prices that are now, and in light of the forecasts you're making, with Prop. 44 L, i.e. the power support system, is forecasting sky-high power prices for a long time to come. Would it not then have been more natural to support people to implement energy saving measures and reduce their household spending?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1435	And we're going to do the same thing. First of all, there's already money in Enova, 1.2 billion. kr over 4 years. The first year was last year, and there's actually some money available, for they spent less than assumed first year. But all of those heads are included in 2022, so everyone who has a project should search now, because there's money from the sums that were already there. In addition, we're increasing by 100 million. This is specifically for this purpose, and they are to be targeted at precisely those groups that have probably not applied for the schemes we have known up to now, so this is an important purpose. But at the same time, it's important that Enova do what Enova is primarily for, that's to be technology-driven, so that we develop the industrial and other solutions that we're going to live on when the world out there is going to move out of the fossil age anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1442	I am very pleased that the Minister is talking about nature as a premise for the energy and environmental policy that we are going to have in the future. The villa is on the red list and is in danger of extinction. At the same time, there shall be a quantity of watercourse audits, concession audits for hydropower. Here's hump salmon, here's the power run because of more unregulatable force into our power system. How will the Minister for Energy and the Environment contribute to better management of the wild species in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1448	I thank you for the question, which is very important, because it is absolutely right that the wild axis is on the red list, and it needs an extra amount of care in the time to come. It has to do with all the questions that were now mentioned, and also of course with how we do breeding, in terms of escape, salmonnus, etc. We are in the process of looking at this, among other things. together with the Minister for Fisheries and the Sea. It is also true that it is connected to e.g. the question of conditional audits. There we have the EU's Water Directive, which sets some clear guidelines for this, which means that in many areas we need to have a slightly tighter policy than we have had in history. It is an important part of the work on that very thing, and it will also affect living conditions, for example. for wild axes. But I can at least confirm that I am going to have a high pressure on the work with wild axle. There are many different reasons, including this one with the invasion of mulberry salmon, which we look at both here at home in Norway and in cooperation with neighbouring countries in the Nordic region.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1455	Perhaps the most important thing to do here in climate policy in the next few years is to have a new agreement with the EU on the 2030 climate agreement. Then there's something that goes automatically into the EEA Agreement, what's in the quota sector. Non-quota sector is another part, Protocol 31, and there are also areas for forestry, land use, etc. Then my question is: can we be sure that the Council of States is now using its time to influence these processes in the EU, and that when it is adopted there, it will also be adopted here immediately?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1460	I can confirm that with joy and enthusiasm. I want to make the previous government boast at this point, that it was very wise for us to enter into this climate agreement with the EU. I had the pleasure of being a case rapporteur – it was perhaps the great agreement with the EU that has had the greatest upswing in this room, so it's nice to be able to say – and the agreement provides very good tools to do what we have to do at home, plus the security of the others, that is, the ones we're dealing with, doing the same things. I can say that this evening I am going to attend a Digital Environment Ministerial meeting in the European Union, and then I am going to Brussels to talk about these things on Monday. We are in the process of doing this, and as Elvestuen knows better than most people in the hall, much of the follow-up to the EU Greens is just giving in to the Ministry of Climate and Environment, so we will have high pressure on that. And the Hurdal platform says one more thing, namely that, in addition to cooperation on quotas, on the climate agreement, via the EEA, we also need to strengthen industrial policy cooperation with the EU in order to get even more out of the EU's green hand in our own transformation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1467	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1474	When I grew up here in Oslo in the 1970s, Bjørvika was a large traffic machine and Uusimaa Workshop was a big job where ships were built. The idea of taking a bath at the end of Akerselva was absurd. Today, people sew the whole year on Sørenga and in Bjørvika. It is bathed all year round at the Opera, the new library and the Munch Museum whether it is from new beaches or modern bath boats. The fjord has become cleaner and more accessible to people, and its use has increased. That's good, and we'll be happy for that. Back to my childhood, I also remember that we were able to fish cod and other fish at the family's summer resort at Hyler. This summer, which was warm and nice, there was little fish to see, but the Pacific sister, whom we don't want to have there, comes into large quantities. The Oslo soil is ill, and action is urgent. That's why I'm glad that there's 10 million in the budget. kr more to increase the effort to save Oslofjord. Let me also commend the previous government for presenting an action plan on the Oslo soil. Of course, the new government is following up, and the signals from the Hurdal platform are clear. We need measures to reduce the run-off from municipalities and from agriculture. It is necessary to introduce a ban on septic emptying from recreational craft. I'm going to admit that in 2021 it seems a little strange that it's actually allowed to empty the septic tank in the spring as long as you're 300 meters away from land. The management of fisheries resources must be sustainable. I would therefore strongly encourage the Minister for the Environment to work actively with the Oslo Earth and recall that nature is the very basis for our well-being. Therefore, it is quite natural that we talk about both nature protection and greenhouse gas cuts in a context. We've set offensive targets. Emissions shall be down – 55 pst. reduction by 2030. It is a pity that the EU did not say yes to Fortum’s application for innovation funds to realise CCS on Klemetsrud. But when Stortinget now puts of 15 million. It is also important to continue work on the CCS cleaning plans on Klemetsrud. Emissions from the waste incineration plant amount to 14 pst. emissions here in Oslo, 400000 tonnes of CO 2 per year. Similar installations with similar emissions exist across the country, across Europe and around the world. It is no exaggeration to say that the world needs us to go ahead and realize the purification and storage of CO 2 from waste incineration plants. Even if we're going to recover more, bet on the circular economy, work more environmentally consciously in the way we live, then the waste we have to get rid of. But the emissions that are coming, we can do something about it. That is why CCS at Klemetsrud is important, and I am pleased that both the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Oil and Energy are also concerned about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1493	Petroleum industry is Norway's largest and most important industry, and the Right is concerned with ensuring stable and responsible framework conditions for the petroleum industry where profitability, diligence and good resource management are at the core. Right-wing industry must be supported in the further search for new resources and through the energy transformation that we are in. The gas part of our petroleum industry is central to this. If oil and gas production in the world is to be reduced, it is the demand that needs to be changed. It is a significantly more effective climate action than moving production to other countries. The industry needs stable and robust framework conditions, which give activity throughout the country. Available search area is an essential part of the industry framework. Postponing the 26th concession round, as the government has now agreed with the Swedish Government, creates anything other than a robust framework for the industry. The energy crisis in Europe now shows how dependent the EU is on Norwegian gas. For example, in the EU Green Deal: hydrogen and ammonia are essential elements for integrating different energy systems and contributing to CO 2 reduction in particular in the process industry and transport. Hydrogen production based on Norwegian natural gas with the capture and storage of CO 2 can thus become a very important factor in the energy transformation in Europe over the next ten years. There are many operators and stakeholders who were very disappointed that there was no 26th concession round. The Oil Directorate realized that there would be an interest in several blocks, among other things. in the Barents Sea. The Goliath field and the nearby Alke licence, which we find in the Barents Sea, and which largely contains gas and condensate, contain approximately 25 billion standard cubic meters of gas. There is a good and ongoing cooperation with ambitions for the production of blue ammonia and natural gas with the capture and storage of CO 2 in Hammerfest. On the morning question today, we heard that Enova, with the support of the Solberg government budget proposal, supported this project with several hundred million dollars. At Kollsnes in the municipality of Eyegarden, a hydrogen plant is being built to be based on gas from the Troll field. The production of blue hydrogen and blue ammonia with carbon capture and storage is therefore a natural further development of Norwegian cap. We heard very little about this from the Council of State in her article. Although there are today several good projects that have been supported by Enova, we have to realize that the end of the 26th concession round gives great uncertainty and becomes a shot at the bow for many operators. What's the real government signal now? SV says it is the end of the Norwegian petroleum industry, and the government dedramatises it all.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1519	If one has a broken window, a stone on the inside and a bunch of kids standing on the other side of the broken window, and there is a good in that flock of kids that points to all the others and says "it was they who did it", then one has a set of views of the Progress Party's role in energy policy. It's everyone else's fault that power prices are now high. The reality is that the Progress Party must assume a significant part of the responsibility for the current prices that we now have. We think of Tord Lien, the former energy minister, who was tired of cheap power. He has now got what he and his party wanted, because it was they who changed the promises, so that we could get private export cables. It was with the Progress Party in multiples that a new model developed for a net tariff father that the same party no rages against. This has been a willful development. With this government, we're saying that this power price is not okay. For this reason, we have provided powerful packages of dishes for households, for agriculture and today also for horticulture. These are temporary arrangements. Then we register that Right thought it was too late, but the Storting made a decision on December 2nd, and yesterday came the proposition. But the Stortinget has taken a decision before, for 23 February this year the Stortinget asked the previous government to: ‘ propose without delay measures to remedy the situation of exceptionally high electricity costs and to return to the Storting in a timely manner.’;» [[...]] The government did no world thing. They came back to Stortinget and said that now they have the power prices socks. Think of the government doing what Stortinget asked for – that we had done this at the bottom. We would then have our far better bans. So these are temporary measures. Therefore, I am pleased that the Hurdal platform points to a number of concrete things that will keep the power prices in Norway low and allow them to search. That is also the budget we are dealing with today, a good start to it. Norway is historically built on cheap electricity, and we also need to build on cheap electricity in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1537	Energy and the environment are for debate. The backbone of current crises and cases underlines the importance of this area as well as for the future, both nationally and internationally. We can talk about finding the balance between nature and energy. Here we need to know what we're doing, not at least at sea. The Supreme Court ruling in the Fosen wind power case came in the middle of our budgetary process, and he thought much about where Norway was going to take care of the land of nature, Europe's last wilderness. It was never the intention of the Storting that the marshy to build more renewable energy would be a power to the concession authorities to break human rights. This is not a budgetary matter, but a serious matter that has to do with this area, and which it is important that we continue to think about energy and the environment in the future. Because if we are to bring down European prices by giving up renewable production in Norway, then we have to build wind power in several ethasies. We're going to have to calculate the sizes, and we're going to have to calculate the impact on the natural area. Almost as if to underline the seriousness of Norwegian nature, for the first time on the list of endangered species in Norway, a list of birds and seabirds is a large group as well. Land use change is one of the main challenges. Here I would have liked to have seen that we received much more funding in the budget to target measures to reverse developments for both climate and eradication-affected species, and measures to get more defenceful land management in the municipalities in terms of road construction and coastal zone management. SV has been in the negotiations for a better distribution, climate action and a natural rescue package. We are pleased with the environmental victories we got into the agreement with the government party: 450 million. NOK 100 million for Enova. kr more ear-marked energy measures in the household, 50 million. SEK to strengthen the climate rate for municipalities and not least 120 million. kr more for voluntary forest protection. There is also more to marine environmental monitoring at Mareano and the Round Environmental Centre, which has such a central role in marine research and their ecological function. We need a better policy for nature and the environment, but the bill for the man-made crises we can no longer send to nature and the industries as shelters of eternal resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1550	There are now electric ferries running along the coast. Another Norwegian who buys a car buys an electric car. Batteries are now concluding large supply contracts. Hydrograin bets are on march – 1 billion. kr from Enova only today morning. Let there be no doubt: this would not happen without an offensive climate policy in recent years. It had not happened without the Solberg government's commitment to Enova, without clear climate requirements in public procurement and without a green tax shift, for which the Right has gone into the rush. It has not been easy for the new government to follow up on this. First, they present a government platform that increases climate targets but weakens climate action. Then comes a budget that cuts less climate emissions than the Solberg government budget. Then there will be a budgetary settlement with SV, where Prime Minister Gahr Støre quite sloppyly claims that they clearly cut more than the Solberg government's budget proposal, but where the government is struggling to point out what concrete new measures are actually cutters and monks. Right is busy looking forward. We don't have time for much distance between words and action. Right now there are many opportunities in Norway, and Norwegian business has to seize them before they run from us. For example, we can do this. creating circular value chains – where it is more profitable to repair, reuse, recover and recycle products instead of throwing them – it is not just good for nature diversity and to cut emissions. There can also be profitable business models in a world where there is great pressure on natural resources. It's not just in moderation and moderation, you can also make money on it. We really don't have to wait for new investigations to do something right now. There are many proposals for a new circular economy on the table. The government can follow up on that right away. When I was a kid, we could fish in Oslofjord in the summer. Now cod stocks are at a historically low level. Environmental toxins, microplastics and encapsulation accumulate. It is good that we have started to take action to do something about the situation in Oslofjord, but it also reminds us that it is not possible to see climate policy isolated from natural and environmental policy in the future. Everything is related to everything. In the right-hand government, a budget was put in place to take care of more nature, improve knowledge of species and ecosystems, increase forest protection and aim to restore nature. While we doubled the protection of forests, it was disappointing to see that the Workers' Party and the Centre initially wanted to cut 120 million. kr in voluntary forest protection. I hope this is not an emphasis on what value the government attaches to nature in the future. Nature has an important self-esteem, but sustainable use of nature is also crucial for us to be able to do business in 10 years and in 30 years — whether it is resource management in the sea or on land. Overcrowding and wasting serve no one. Nature must be the framework for all policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1565	This autumn has been marked by exceptionally high electricity costs and electricity prices. There's a lot of anxiety in many people, and that's understandable. The support schemes on electricity introduced by the government in cooperation with SV this winter are important, but they do not provide permanent solutions for either households or industry. We have to make sure that the Norwegian people have a greater predictability than what we now experience. I am therefore pleased that the government is putting down an energy commission that can go into this problem. My wish for the future debate is that we can use it to solve this challenge. Because there is not just one single measure that will solve it. This is where we have to think wisely, and we have to look at the scope of action we have in the various agreements that have been concluded. Several transmission cables and high gas and coal prices in Europe combined with low wind have made Norway a net exporter of power this winter. We can't go on like that. The electricity produced in Norway should go as far as possible to households and to industries that create jobs. Access to reasonable and pure power has been and is one of the industry's most important and foremost competitive advantage, and we have to do everything in our power to make it that way in the future. The centre party and the Labour Party are therefore committed to ensuring that the Norwegian people and industry have good access to power. Increasing electrification in the transport sector, or increased use of hydrogen, will require more electricity, both directly to charge and indirectly for the production of hydrogen. Industry has signalled an increase in power demand over the next few years, both in existing industry and new industry, for example. battery production. I am therefore pleased that the Hurdal platform states that new foreign tables should not be built under this government. Power is a common good that we're going to fence about, and that we have to think about first and foremost nationally. But it's not just about fenced up about what we have. It is also largely about increasing the production of renewable energy. Many of the solutions to climate challenges lie in industry. It is then important that we ensure that industry has good access to reasonable power in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1578	Just two months and three days ago, we got a new government in Norway – a government with people from the Workers' Party and the Center Party, a government for ordinary people throughout the country, a government that will develop the whole country. We're going to have little differences between people, both socially and geographically. We're going to have an active business policy that creates new jobs and cuts emissions. We're going to use the forest actively, both in climate policy and as a useful raw material. We should be able to load along the road both in Fredrikstad and in Finnmark. We need a fair and cohesive climate policy. We need a more restrictive predatory policy. We're going to give more power to the local predators, and we're going to ensure national control of the natural resources. On the front of the Hurdal platform there is a picture of Norway. There's water, there's an edge zone against arable land, there's a farm in the distance, and there's birch, spruce and mixed forest in the lia behind the farm. Nature is not quite as raw as we northerners are used to, we have steeper mountains and a quarter of Norway's coastline, but it's a picture of nature and nature. That is the framework we also have for policy. People in the Center Party have a great sense of nature's benefits and experiences. We appreciate those who harvest and produce food for us. We are also many who pick berries and mushrooms and go hunting. In the fall, while we were waiting for a new government and a new direction for the country, I was actually given the time to be at Elghakt. In the election campaign we climbed up to the Hamarøyskaft, invited up by the Central Party rapporteur in Hamarøy. I hope that everyone in the committee who is concerned with nature comes out and takes at least one night in nature for all the months of the year. For us in the Centre Party, it is very important to find a good balance between activity and environmental considerations, between use and protection and between nature and climate. But what about the Progress Party for the time being, which is constantly meeting itself at the door? What is it like to make proposals with the Green Party today, after being in the right-wing government or supporting it for eight years? In the election campaign, representatives of the Progress Party warned people against voting on today's government party. It was said that it was to give place to the Environment Party of the Greens and Reds' backward, unfavorable and costly policies. Now it is the Progress Party, the Green Party and the Red Party that are still best friends in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1592	The state of the North Atlantic salmon strain is approaching crisis. Since the late 1970s, we have seen a major decline in the population of Atlantic salmon. The reason is complex, but we know that escaped farmed salmon, salmon and mulch salmon are the greatest threats to the wild. We see part of the same image for the sea trout, which is especially hit by salmon out in the fjord system. The Atlantic salmon is for the first time on the red list with the category near threat. By ratifying NASCO, Norway has committed itself to contributing to the conservation, restoration, increase and rational management of the North Atlantic salmon strain. It is important that we are able to provide an economic boost for the conservation and strengthening of the population of Atlantic wild breeds and sea trout. In Northern Ireland, we have three national salmon rivers – Wefsna, Ranaelva and Beiarelva. All three watercourses have been infected by gyrosis, but now they are approaching freshly reported. Ranaelva and Beiarelva have been re-established, while re-establishment of the watercourses in the Vefsna region can only be expected to be completed by 2025 at the earliest. Operational laxator steps are a prerequisite for optimum performance of the established national salmon watercourses. That is to say, before the construction and restoration of salmon steps, there is really no basis for considering these watercourses as reestablished. These watercourses work with plans for the restoration and new construction of the salmon traps, and they can also function in such a way as to remove unwanted invaded humpback salmon and not least take out escaped farmed salmon. Among other things, Wefsna received start-up funds in 2019, and although promises were made in the state budget for 2020, their application for funds for 2021 was rejected, which has led to major delays and the almost stoppage of work. Finally, I am very pleased that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV now have a note that the construction and re-establishment of salmon escarpment in Beiarelva and the Wefsna are about to begin quickly, so that we can experience rivers that are dreary of wild breeds and communities that give rise to housing, travel life and good ringing effects for business.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1605	People and businesses are changing at a furious pace in order for Norway to meet its climate obligations. But we're not stronger than the weakest term, and the weakest term cannot and should not be the authorities. The energy crisis in Europe is an example of the need for governments to be ahead of the challenges that the green shift can bring, and not behind, that many have felt that the government has been this harvest. Within five years, our power surplus may have been eaten. The need to expand more power is becoming critical – for the jobs of people, to keep power prices low, and for new and existing industries. Power cables are barely capable of being stretched to charge the local elf ferry or seine fishing system. At the same time, people must keep the common good that secure access to power at affordable prices is. It is therefore not acceptable to count the time spent in NVE for the number of years, or to take a long time before a case handler is awarded at all. It is a national strategic interest for governments to allow for the transition to which households and businesses are most willing to contribute. During the Solberg administration, we set up a rapid sample to provide solutions for faster processing times. The paper Energy for Work is also an important framework for achieving that objective. But most importantly, the right went to the choice to create a fast track for industrial travel. This should be followed up by the Big Government. Access to sufficient and reasonable power is the very basis for our everyday lives and for new industries. Then we have to expand more hydropower, also gentle development in protected areas. When building the hydrogen plant in the Lake of Lake Messa, the departments and departments in the state must be able to talk. They must provide the framework conditions without too much time being lost. But remember, the state also competes with the rest of the world when we're going to serve an industry that has to compete world-class every day to survive. Of course, there must be democratic involvement in the processes – we must reach the green transition target and make our contribution, but we must also safeguard the population, businesses and Norwegian interests along the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1616	For us in Oslo, which has the lowest proportion of government employees of all states in the country, where 75 pst. by all employees working in the private sector, increased investment in the green industry, changes in climate-related taxes and a number of other climate measures that will help Norway cut emissions by 2030 are new. For Oslo’s diverse working life, a more active industrial policy can be enjoyed with this budget. It will be a success in the major transformations facing it, on the way to the renewable society. It is gratifying that the government is showing such a clear direction and has ambitions for green business conversion and organisation to mobilise private capital and increase investment in the mainland. In a macroeconomic perspective, many in this room may agree that the greatest obstacle to the necessary conversion is increasing differences. A fair sharing of income, a strong and fair and redistributive welfare state is and will be absolutely essential to success. That is why the power agreement between the Working Party, the Center Party and SV is correct. In a broader perspective, it must also be allowed for a moment to reflect on: how lucky are we, who live in a country where the state takes the bill when the flow becomes expensive? Such muscles do not have most countries in Europe — nor do they have their backs to carry them. The last year has clearly shown the importance of business and how business across the country is closely integrated with the world around us. International cooperation is more important than ever. At a time of global uncertainty, our EEA Agreement is a safe port. For the Oslo companies, access to the EU internal market is crucial. Over 60 pst. exports from Oslo to Europe. These exports alone generate 70000 jobs. For these companies, the EEA Agreement means that they are allowed to compete on a level playing field in a large market. We know that the market or consumers alone cannot fix the climate. In the Workers' Party we know that we need the big industries to take the big promises. For a city such as Oslo, the proposal for a new scheme for green growth loans and increased participation in the EU’s InvestEU funding programme will be important and provide opportunities. An active enterprise policy, a transition that takes the social partners, affected workers and climate and nature seriously, yes, it is in a good social democratic spirit – red enough to be defended, green enough to be preserved.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1637	We were presented in the watershed and the agreement between the government and the Swedish government when it comes to the flow compensation. We send questions to the ministry about what the change of 5 pst, from 50 to 55 pst, would mean in practice. The ministry says they can't answer it. Then I expect that, when the Council of State is in the Chamber, during the debate now, we will know what the 5 percent means in dollars and cents in a normal consumption of 20,000 kWh for a normal household. It's important to get there. Otherwise, I shall make four loose proposals. There are two proposals for the introduction of a new model for on-line hire, which had been proposed. The government plus SV has said that they won't introduce this change from New Year's, so point one, the first thing we've presented, will clearly be agreed. In Proposal No. 2 we go in to oblige the online companies not to introduce a new model, actually to make a decision to impose it on them. We've seen in the media that there are some people who claim that they want to do it anyway, so it's an important suggestion. Proposal No. 3 is: ‘The Government immediately requests the use of paragraph 12 of Statnett’s concession terms for the organisation of power exchanges via external NordLink and North Sea Link cables with the aim of limiting net power exports in order to improve the current power situation and ensure sufficient power reserves over the winter months.’ It is also a very important part to limit power exports in the current power situation. The last submitted is: ‘The government is asking the government to establish a compensation scheme for outsourced industries that are hard hit by the power crisis that compensates for the excessive increase in current costs. The scheme shall be submitted to the Stortinget at the beginning of January with effect from the exceptional costs incurred as from November 2021.» Here one has said that it is both agriculture, horticulture and others who will be able to come into this scheme with 70 cents, and above that they will cover up to 50 cents. But for both horticulture and other industries, there are power prices that are three to four times higher than normal, which means that it is just as dramatic as what they have presented, and that are just as challenging for those industries. So it hasn't changed very much around it. Otherwise, the debate has not brought out so much new. It is clear from the debate that a takeover of between 30 and 40 billion is taking place. kr more in the income of the country. It's like you're going down deep into the wallets of the inhabitants and the business community, taking out the money and giving back a little bit of money, and it's really very special that you can do it. So we just register that that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1662	The representative Frank Edvard Sve then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1667	If we are to achieve the climate objectives of Stortinget, we are totally dependent on the success of an active industrial policy in the north. In North Norway, we have a surplus of reasonable and renewable energy, and it is a priority that makes north a catalyst for creating new jobs in response to the green transition. We now see how companies in battery and hydrogen production are establishing a number of places in the country. The power of these establishments is so great that they have the potential to change social development in several places in North Norway. This economic development can create thousands of skilled jobs and contribute to many more people in the Nordic region in the next decade. The challenge could be the recruitment of skilled labour rather than the lack of skilled jobs. To ensure that the Nordic community can become a European epicenter for green industrial development, we need an active state. One of the clearest conclusions made by the European Commission in its meeting with the Coronapandemic is the need for a more active food and industrial policy. We'll learn from that. The power of a forward-looking business that sees the opportunities of the green shift combined with a state that is dry and able to use the entire toolbox to provide them with good framework conditions will be crucial for creating new jobs in Northern Ireland. It is almost alarming to see how unlike the right-wing government in Norway and the Swedish Social Democratic Government have met the opportunities of the new industrial establishments in the north in the last two years. I am therefore pleased that the new government in the Hurdal platform is so clear that we are going to take active state action in the north. One of the objectives of the Northern Region policy is to turn negative population trends, exploit local values to generate growth and make the northern regions the centre of green conversion. The power-processing industry in the sea, Mo in Rana, Sørfjorden, Finnfjord, Meløy and Narvik have all the prerequisites to help achieve this goal. The fact that all of these locations are located in the north is the greatest advantage in meeting the green shift. Renewable energy, natural resources, land, nature, industrial culture and competences are regional advantages that make North Norway highly relevant for investors, industrial establishments and new jobs. If we are to achieve the climate objectives of Stortinget, we are totally dependent on the success of an active industrial policy in the north. Then Nordland must be an engine in the green shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1680	In 2017 strand a torment outside Sotra in Hordaland. This was a goosebump that was looking for glass cuffs. When the pain became obsessive, the shock was great. We saw that the stomach was full of plastic. The quail had confused plastic bags with glass cuffs. This agony became a symbol of marine pollution all over the world. In November of this year, I got to be at the premiere of the NRK series ‘Plastic Sea’. The series gives us a shocking insight into the plastic issue both on land and at sea. One might think that the problem had improved since 2017, but unfortunately it has become worse. The main character in the series, Kenneth Bruvik, is a man with a real commitment who keeps the attention to the plastic issue alive and topical. Kenneth knows what it is about, for he has visited and filmed the bird mountain covered with plastic and open fish and seabird and found plastic in their stomachs. He shows us through the series how big the problem with plastic is. We know today that plastic does not disappear, but becomes microscopic particles that become part of our food chain. We know a lot about the consequences of this, but not enough. Plastic is a global commodity with long value chains. This means that Norway cannot solve this alone, but must work with other countries, with business and with civil society to take important action. Plastic pollution is a global environmental problem that is visible in your and my vicinity. It is necessary to produce more resilient plastic products, more resilient use of plastics and reduce the amount of plastic waste that cannot be recycled. Norway has a central role through the Fifth United Nations Environment Assembly, where Minister for Climate and Environment Espen Barth Eide from our own government is President. The Minister for Climate and Environment will work specifically with the plastic challenges. Norway has a leading role to play here in bringing with us the rest of the world community and developing systems for recycling and waste management of plastics. Plastic is a visible and invisible threat that harms nature, animals and humans. We have to take responsibility for future generations and for pollution that already lies in nature. I would like to invite everyone to see the documentary 'Plastic Sea' at NRK. I look forward to further work and the role of Norway in the fight against plastic pollution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1693	We are basically quite lucky in this country, in many ways. The world and Europe are in a real energy crisis, and Norway is making a formidable contribution to that crisis. The state is disappointing in more money than ever. Nevertheless, it seems that we have problems distributing this extra income to our citizens. I'm still excited about how the government plan for this is actually going to be for people. In this room and in many of the debates, the rhetoric is constantly about cutting the ties to our neighbouring countries in Europe. We have sky-high power prices, and many respond – rightly so. Many wear, and will wear, with paying for their power consumption. It has to be solved. I think that all of us in this room should send a thought to our neighbours in Europe, who now have to pay in expensive gas judges with whom they heat their houses, heat their water and cook their coffee and food, which now has to pay even more for their energy than what we do. Their gas costs an extraordinary amount and is one of the main factors of the levels we see for the current. This serves AS Norway – more than ever. We have the money, we have the financial muscles, we can distribute, we can exercise solidarity with those who are struggling in Norway, and we can show solidarity with those who are struggling in our neighboring country. So instead, a lot of the debate is that we're going to cut the foreign tables. When we are in Europe: the EU has already announced a review to see how the gas price can be decoupled from the electricity price. It's not directly intuitive that it's connected. So they're more forward than we are in solving the crisis we're in. If they solve this, we also solve our obvious moral dilemma: that we are serving ourselves search warrants in this crisis. It solves us at the same time from the huge gains the state now receives, and which seem so terriblely challenging to distribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1702	Today, the climate has finally had to give up a little. The electricity price is so high that even the other batches have to decide on it. Otherwise, the debate in this Chamber has until now been about climate, 95-99 p.m., no matter which party has been in, except the Progress Party, which understands that it is more than just the climate that affects the everyday life of the people most. I saw a few weeks ago that the VG took up what climate objectives and what climate policy was most sensible, and which had the highest probability and truth content, and that was the Progress Party. We've brought the forest, we're proposing international quota purchases, and we're doing sensible measures. For Norway is already in very good condition. We already have 98 pst. renewable energy, and we already have one of the world's best energy mixes. Then it makes no sense that we are at the same time those who are going to cut the most, we are not going to bring Norwegian forest, and we are going to make it as difficult for ourselves. Now we see the consequences. Europe has gone this way that very many parties here want on the Stortinget. They have phased out the regulatory power, they have put in place very stringent climate action, and they are now in a situation that is self-imposed, where prices are sky-high, and they have a power crisis. The Norwegian people, and not least Europe, can boast that they have Norwegian oil and gas, as the Progress Party seems to be the only party that stands up for now after the last concession round was cancelled. Because they had not had Norwegian oil and gas, they had not had 25 pst. gas and its current energy consumption. Norwegian gas also disperses coal, which contaminates significantly more than what gas does today. Current prices ahead and government forecasts now in their own proposition are sky-high. They estimate — taken from other sources, but they have to go well for them — that in the southern regions, electricity prices are going to be around 179 øre per kWh. What does the government and the state councils present here in the Chamber today think this will do to Norwegian households, that this will do to Norwegian business? Norway is in a special position. Power is used to say everything. Some houses have no heating source other than electricity. You can't let power be a luxury. We appeal to vote for our good, solve suggestions here today. Instead of just patching the bleeding, the arthritis, we have to stop it, and then we have to have a better energy policy in the longer term. I also refer to our comments in the various cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1717	We've moved on to money in the budget and concentrated on it to get a better budget and a fairer share of climate and nature, for a few months. But what happens? Power prices are moving more money than we are. We've got a good budget, but we have to do something with these prices, and we have to do it in cooperation with the countries around us, for politicians across Europe are in their crisis meeting after the crisis meeting to find solutions. In fact, there is no more than one year since it was about 40 to 50 cents in average prices as high prices in the long-term power market analyses. The way the system works, the power to which it's best paid, and the Storting with a lot of parties has been involved. We have an energy price crisis in Norway and not a supply crisis. Many suggest that there will be unstable prices ahead and right prices, and because we live in a dark and cold land and have a lot of energy needs, the prices are extra strong in the lives of people here. So we want to frame the power market and get a policy that protects society from such an outcome that one has seen in recent times. One has been given a solution to the crisis with the government party, but in connection with the energy message that we are going to discuss, we have to think very systemically and come up with more lasting political solutions. And with the climate in Europe now, I think there are many countries that are also looking for such solutions that we can get to work together on. What I'm thinking is very important in the situation that we're in, is that we get to gear up the bet on an increment measure properly. In the context of the budget, it was important for us to increase the sum for use in Enova, both for new technology and for a strong commitment to an investment in buildings and private households, which the government of Solberg saw removed. The part of the electricity charge paid by the household should go back to energy measures in the household. In our alternative budget, we've seen 800 million. NOK to get more done there, and we got 100 million. kr more for the household of the budget agreement. By making better use of our hydropower plants and making use of the potential for an oak, we can make ourselves less vulnerable to price fluctuations and avoid using huge natural areas for wind turbines. The most environmentally friendly energy is the energy that we don't use.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1731	The oil and gas industry shall be developed, not phased out, the Centre Party and the Workers' Party shall be established in the Hurdal platform. It's really pretty amazing that it's necessary to clarify, but that's what it's become. Petroleum industry is an important industry that contributes to our country with high incomes, value creation and jobs, and if climate objectives are to be achieved, the world must be able to replace fossil energy with renewable energy. That is clearly something we need to work together on. Emissions shall descend on a Norwegian base. In fact, Norwegian oil and gas industries are already well in the process of doing so. The competence acquired by the petroleum industry over the year is the key to the green shift. In Agder we have great competence in offshore, maritime, supplier and process industries. And when I visit that industry, I become optimistic, because these environments are involved in developing the new technology we need – new technology that we depend on in the further work on the green shift. I am therefore pleased with the increased allocation of 300 million. kr to strengthen Enova’s business focus on business conversion. And Enova is an important tool that is strongly strengthened, for both technology development, electric carloads and,not least, forincreased measures. In the same way that Enova has contributed to industrial conversion and development, Bionova will contribute to the agricultural industry and its conversion. The efforts made by the Centre Party, the Workers' Party and the SV in the budget negotiations are good news for agriculture. I am particularly pleased that measures should be put in place to provide farmers with all kinds of operational sizes and forms of operation with a real opportunity to receive funds for climate action on their farm. It is important for Agder agriculture, it is important for agriculture throughout the country, and it is important for food production.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1742	My father was a notorious salmon fisherman and stood in the eleven mornings and evenings, between that he worked at the yard Drageslipen. He sent in shellfish samples, and we ate smoked salmon, cooked salmon, fried salmon and fish soup. It's very important that we have a good management of species for which we have a special responsibility, like the wild species. It came on the red list this year. Therefore, it is very gratifying that there is full agreement in the committee that the construction and restoration of the salmon traps in Beiarelva and Wefsna must begin quickly. It's a clear order. There will be large areas upstream of the wild axis – four new salmon-bearing miles only in Beiarelva – while farming salmon and mulch salmon can be prevented from accessing. Both rivers are national salmon rivers that emanate into national salmon fjords. This is protection through use in practice. The measures are good for the wild, for the people and for the industry in the districts – win-win. In this case, the municipalities of Beiarn, Grane, Hattfjelldal and Wefsn have worked well with local and national interest groups in order to have the case investigated. Nordland county has also unanimously expressed itself, so there is no doubt that this is a long-term priority. Puckular salmon has become a challenge in several watercourses, and in order to limit its number, considerable efforts will be required in the coming years. The action plan against mulch salmon contains measures to prevent mulch salmon from entering rivers. For example, in Finnmark, there is talk of flutter traps in the mouth areas of a number of rivers. We also need to strengthen the consideration of nature and the environment in the watercourse audits, including: through minimum water flow requirements. It is not possible in today's situation that both salmon and salmon owls freeze away in Skoma in Narvik because minimum water supply was not required in the 1969 concession terms. It's been over 50 years, and the situation of the wild has changed. We need to take better care of the nature of the species. The consideration of the salmon must be strengthened when revising the conditions of the concession. Much of the biodiversity in Norway depends on human use, including: grazing areas and mowing areas. Even areas that many will see as pristine nature are some people's outcrops. Often it's been cut in the area before. What many call wilderness, is someone's living space, decommissioned or grazing area.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1757	This year’s major choice became a climate choice and resulted in a new Workers’ Party – Centre Party government. The voters clearly rejected the non-existent climate policy of the right-wing government. But the voters also said no to climate policy that is moralizing, unsocial, punishing ordinary people, and cutting down jobs in Norway. On the other hand, the voters said yes to a climate policy that cuts emissions, creates jobs and is socially fair. That's why I'm very happy that the Hurdal platform adds up to that. The Workers' Party-Centre-Registration has provided the greenest climate budget of the time in the budgetary unit with SV. It's getting a majority here today in the hall. We're going to cut Norwegian emissions by 55 pst over the next nine years. It concerns the whole economy and is far more ambitious than what the previous government did. It's a formidable challenge that we have great opportunities to succeed. Emissions must be at the heart of the strategy for growth, export and job creation. Norway shall again become an export nation. Unlike the outgoing government, we will pursue an active industrial policy and bet in areas such as carbon capture, sea wind, hydrogen, battery technology, green shipping and other renewable industries. I am very pleased that the government is strengthening Enova in the coming year. That's an increase of 750 million. kr, such as will provide emission reductions, technology development and business conversion. We're going to build fast charging stations all over the country, and we're going to reintroduce support for households, so they can also be involved in the green shift. Now that we are at the end of the debate, I particularly want to bring forward the request of the Progress Party not to get involved in what has happened in the last eight years. Representative Frank Edvard Sve of the Progress Party refuses to deal with the last eight years. He exhorts the hall not to look back. I get that very well, because the Progress Party in position has little to be proud of. Here's a little reminder: The electricity charge has increased by 50 pst. the eight years of the Progress Party were in position and the VAT has not been touched. In the last few weeks, the Progress Party has proposed a one-off payment of DKK 4000 in December, but what will the Progress Party do in January, February and March? And although I know that it hurts all representatives of the Progress Party to hear it, I have to repeat it: former oil and energy minister Tord Lien, of the Progress Party, had the political ambition to increase electricity prices. Then it's just to congratulate the Progress Party. Finally, the party has got something – unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1778	There are several things in this debate that need prosecution. I want to start with Red, which is so afraid of foreign houses and that it imports high prices, but we have imported prices from Europe over the last 25 years through the Nordic connection. So the North is connected to the rest of Europe. You don't have to pretend like anything else. Prices have been lower than in the rest of Europe, but have followed the fluctuations in, for example: Germany in the last 25 years. You can wonder if Red really wants to cut the Nordic cables to Norway, combined with the fact that they do not want to expand renewable energy at all. Then we end up as a former Communist Eastern bloc country: well, now the flow is gone for a couple of days, that's just the way it is, but at least you distribute the misery equally. This autumn we have had a major debate on very short-term measures over three months. Let's raise our eyes: what can we do to actually get the power prices permanently down and good power supply in Norway over time? Then there are three things that really monner, and that are really strategic and important for Norway. Firstly, there is a sea wind that can trigger an enormous amount of new renewable energy. But this debate shows that the government is completely paralyzed by disagreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre on hybrid cables. I hope we get a clarification in March, as Stortinget is promised. Secondly, when the supply of natural gas to our allies in Europe is threatened by military confrontation and destabilising the energy market in Europe – with great consequences for us – the government chooses to scrap 26th concession rounds, which could have just revealed propelling gas deposits in the Barents Sea. Thirdly, it's sad to say that the left-hand side and the government don't want to build up new hydropower, which would have served Norway very well, and which in this situation we have to go into. So the government and the left has a lot to answer for in the energy policy in the short term.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1791	It is very good that I get the floor right after Thorheim, and it may seem that the representative Thorheim has not listened to my posts today. Red is not against the exchange cables that already exist; we are against the new export cables. North Sea Link operates in practice as a pure export cable. I repeat – as I said earlier today – that we have in practice had security of supply for energy since 1993, and that is because of the Nordic exchange cables. If the representative from the Right hasn't got it, it's a different price range than the new foreign tables and the price ranges they connect us to. It would be thought that a party such as the Right, which is engaged in the market, followed up on what price mechanisms are in the market. The point is: together with the right of return and public ownership, this exchange with the Nordic countries, which have low and stable electricity prices, has ensured cheap electricity for both households and the Norwegian industry. That's good. Energy is a fundamental need. Some, if not all, say that it is a human right. The fact that we have had access to clean, cheap power for the industry for power-generating production is environmentally friendly. An aluminium mill, which needs about as much power as a medium-sized Norwegian city, and which gets clean power delivered close, is actually one of the most environmentally friendly production available. The new power cables and an increasingly export conversion – making Norway a commodity producer – threaten the environmentally friendly industry on which we have built the country. I am therefore disappointed that the government is passing energy policy on to the Right and the Advance Party. What is new about energy policy in recent years are the new foreign tables, which are not exchange cables but are export cables. What happens then is that we import European electricity prices from countries that have much higher electricity prices than ourselves. It does not help us in the transition to a more renewable society. The only ones who win that race in the short term – as I said earlier today – is the oil and gas industry. They're the ones who can stand in that race. The power-processing industry and the environmentally friendly industry are becoming the big losers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1802	We're approaching the end of the discussion. First of all, it is the real representative, Mr Hussaini, that I am speaking for. He gave the usual picture that the previous government didn't do anything, and that it's now a completely new time, with climate policy coming forward. Then I think it should be remembered that we are going to achieve our climate goals, there is one thing that is absolutely necessary, and that is cooperation. This means that the government that has now joined will be very pleased with what has been done by the previous government – not only that emissions have fallen and done so in recent years, but also what has been built up, whether it is within Enova, the Eco-Tech System or Nysnø. You have area by area where it's reinforced, every single year, and on which this government can now build further. Cooperation is needed, and this must be done in all countries, not having the big shifts after a choice, but actually pursuing climate and environmental policy in the future – with inequality, but it must be pursued in the future. Cooperation in Europe: As I also mentioned in my speech earlier, perhaps the most important decision of the previous government was put in place, to which the Stortinget joined, the climate agreement with the EU. It implies a commitment that every government and every majority must follow, with a climate budget for how much we can release each year until 2030, and we must have the measures to reach them. So there's a cooperation in Europe that we're part of. I am also pleased that we have the foreign tables that have arrived, because we need to work together to bring down emissions – not only in us, but also in Europe. And they're exchange cables. That's what it is now, and that's what it will reinforce as in the years to come. It'll help keep our prices down in periods as well. It's mainly the weather that makes it now very high prices. It may also change, but it will help reduce emissions faster in Europe. It is not at all such that this is a kind of support for the oil and gas industry. On the contrary, it makes Europe, with its green new deal, easier to achieve its goals, also in cooperation with us. I shall finally make a small explanation of vote. I have to say I have been concerned about the cut that was proposed in the allocation to forest protection. In the budgets over the last eight years, we have created around 460 new protected areas for the protection of forests, productive forests, and it has been operating in the budgetary process. In the future, I believe that there must be a larger plan, so I would warn the Left that we will vote in favour of proposal No. 8 about a plan for 10 pst. forest protection by 2030.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1816	I'm going to talk a little bit different, about the climate in general, about general energy policy, but I'm starting to catch up with the representative Hussaini from the Workers' Party. He said that you do not acknowledge what you have done, and that what has happened before has nothing to say, and that we do not have any suggestions. It's with respect to report nonsense. We have made many concrete proposals. The most concrete thing, and who had given people money before Christmas, as opposed to what you get here now – if the proposal for power support is adopted today, it remains to be seen whether it will be done – is NOK 4000 for every household. Then we've suggested something that would work for everyone, and that's removing the VAT. We have proposed that for November, December, the same for electricity, and we have proposed the same for 2022. Power prices are sky-high. The forecasts the government is leaning on show that the power prices are going to be sky-high. So what we have also proposed, and made many proposals, including: A document 8 which was to be dealt with urgently here in Stortinget is to look at exports of force in terms of preparedness. We did not receive a majority for urgent treatment, so today we have made a loose proposal to use Section 12 of the Statnet concession terms for the foreign tables in order to reduce exports due to general reasons. It is quite right that the 17 cables that are there have served us well in the past, but the last two cables have a very, very large capacity, and they are now linked to countries with a very, very poor energy policy. This is a country that the NVE forecasts show will have a power deficit of 2025. In other words, it's not much to pick up from them. They have power produced when it blows, and when the sun shines – not when we need it. We have power they need, and we have controllable power that they buy from us when they need it. In other words, we're bringing gold back to the table, and we're getting graystones back. That is why it is not a good thing to go directly after Europe with energy and climate policies we see today, because Europe is on the verge. Germany shall have 80 pst. renewable energy in its 2030 energy mix. That's 80 pst. variable energy. If they don't get power from all neighboring countries, and suck the neighboring countries out of power, they're going to experience even more blackout than they do today. Because it is a fact: as a third-world country, Germany has to sell out the industry today. It's not acceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1827	The President would argue that there are many ways of describing the posts of co-representatives, but to describe them as ‘stupid’ cannot be said to be in line with good parliamentary practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1832	I'll try to avoid using the word "stupid" from the pulpit. The representative Pollestad had an article earlier today where he thought that the high current prices we see now are the result of a misguided development. He refers to an eight-year-old statement by Tord Lien, which was said in a completely different context and was the result of a situation that we stood in at the time, where the Center Party also shared the situation description. We were in a situation where the bulk of the population saw the need to enter into an agreement on green certificates with Sweden to subsidise new power generation. Making the impression that the price picture we are seeing now is a misguided development, I think is simply very out of place – to stick to parliamentary language. Because there has been a broad consensus on the energy system that we have built, between almost all the parties sitting in this room, from the Eivind Reiten Center Party liberalised the power market at the beginning of the 1990s. Let's remind ourselves: current prices were on average higher from 1980 to 1990 than they have been from 1990 to 2020. The power system we've built has served Norway very, very well. Then we are in an extraordinary situation that requires extraordinary action. That's why I spoke in my post that we have to keep our heads cold, not throw wrecks on the system we have built up, but at the same time keep our hearts warm and take care of those who are now struggling to pay the bill. It is worth remembering, when these foreign tables go over and over again – or inter-national connections, as I like to call them – that preparedness is about two things. It's also about the ability to import force when we need it. It was the Center Party – and I now turn to the representative Pollestad – who agreed to build these two new foreign tables, and then there was a government that came after it, which gave concession to the same cables, but there was a broad consensus that this was reasonable. And it wasn't like we sat in this room and did analyses of what effect this would have on the power price. No, we used the best professionals we have available to that kind of thing to calculate the effect of this, and they calculated it over a 30-year period. It's raised beyond any doubt that it's the sky-high gas prices and the high CO 2 prices that's why we're in the situation we're in now. And so, fortunately, we have much lower electricity prices than we have in other European countries. Let's not blame each other for the fact that the price picture we see now is a crazy policy. There's no one in this room who wants the kind of power prices that we have now. To claim something else, I just think I'm helping to spoil the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1850	It might have been tempting to comment on the previous posts, but the danger of being lost in unparliamentary terms would have been very great, so I think I'll talk about the oil and gas policy, which I think is getting too little notice in this room. We talk too little about oil and gas policy when we deal with the state budget. In October, Norway sold gas for 72 billion dollars. kr, and we sold oil for 32.7 billion. kr. It's of a total export that month of 156 billion. kr. Two thirds of our exports were oil and gas. So I'll take a look at SV's alternative program. I could have used other parties too, but they wrote: ‘The Norwegian oil adventure has been important for our common well-being’ – has been important. The Norwegian oil adventure is entirely decisive for our well-being and will also be in the years to come. There is no theme to talk about in preteritum. It also says, "but now we've become too oil addicts" – again a quote from SV's alternative budget. I don't mean to hang out SV, because I think they mean it, but both SV and the Green Party use 50 billion in their alternative budget. kr more from the oil and gas sector than the government did in its proposal. Hence, it is so important for us to develop and not defuelle the oil industry. But what might be worse for the oil industry than having enemies is having bad friends. The progress party is a friend like that. In the election campaign, proposals were made to change the oil tax. One can discuss the 'timing' on it, but the Progress Party saw the possibility of cutting down on cheap political points. It must be a little fluffy when Norwegian oil and gas go out and say that this change is okay, and yet howls and screams the Progress Party. The same thing happened to us today in the Chamber with the representative Trellevik, who claims it is a crisis that there will not be a 26th concession round in 2022. I don't think much would have expected a 26th concession round in 2022, and for the company what's in the so-called TFO rounds will be more important. Those who are happy in the oil industry must make demands on the oil industry. We have to demand cuts, but we also have to take responsibility, for the great challenge for the Norwegian oil and gas industry is to ensure that those who are going to work in that industry in 20, 30 and 40 years, now take a course that is relevant for a future in the Norwegian oil and gas industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1867	The debate is coming to an end, and I will try not to stir up further debate. I think perhaps the Committee on Energy and the Environment needs to round off the debate in a way. There is no doubt that the major tasks of our future are within the energy and environmental sphere. I said instead that these four years might be the most important in this century given what we're about to go through. And there are really big tasks: cutting greenhouse gas emissions by 2050, becoming climate-neutral, cutting by 55 pst. until 2030. We might want to create 1 million new jobs by 2050. We need to significantly increase exports from the mainland industry and prepare for a reduction in the importance of the oil and gas industry in the Norwegian economy. We may also need to establish as much as 40–50 new TWh in power generation by 2030 in order to cope with the green shift and to facilitate new value creation. Then there's a significant word that Ola Elvestuen brought up, this with cooperation. Broad solutions and predictability are quite essential. I then worry that someone wants to polarize this debate – perhaps more than necessary, because I believe that there is a rather large and broad collection in the middle. But the extremes, as they appear in this hall, are in the process of attracting each other. I have observed that there has been almost a new love relationship between the Progress Party and Red. It is quite frightening when – what to say – nationalistically concentrated forces act as collectively as they do in this debate. I think that's scary, but I hope that those who are independent of the two parties can still stand together and still make broad solutions that build Norway further, and that will enable us to seize new opportunities with a much more powerful outlook than the two parties actually bear witness. Our story shows that if we had chosen the solutions of the Advance Party, Norway would have been poorer. If we had chosen Red's solutions, I hardly know where we had been. In conclusion, I would like to reiterate to the representative Sofie Marhaug that if Red's solutions to power policy had formed the basis for growth and value creation, or if Red's policy had created the basis for attracting value creation in Norway, there would not have been much value creation in Norway again, with the approach that Red has taken in its programmes. When we're going to do the big future tasks in the future, I really hope that we'll work together on broad, good solutions that actually build opportunities and enable us to cut greenhouse gas emissions, create new jobs, establish new power generation and, not least, attract investment power in many of the industrial companies we're so happy with.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1881	The representative, Marius Arion Nilsen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1886	I'm going to deal with parliamentary language this time, even though I thought I did it instead. It's kind of interesting to see the representative Aasland say he won't polarize, and then bring some characteristics of opponents of opinion. What is the matter is that we have largely agreed where to go, but when we are on the wrong path, we have to change the course. Even an oily machine will not help us if we cut, and that is where we are going if we follow Europe blindly, with their climate and energy policies. What I really came here to say now was that we really have to get ahead of solutions for small and medium-sized enterprises, restaurants and other companies that are struggling. So I hope that a power support package for them comes as soon as possible, because as it is now, house electricity is more expensive than rent for these companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1895	I want to talk about a jewel in Norwegian environmental policy, a jewel that may not be well known, because it has been very successful. In the 1990s and early 2000s, Norway deleted its international commitments to cut emissions leading to acid rain. In the early 2000s, SV was able to create what is now known as the NOx Fund. There is a cooperation between government and business, where business commits itself to cutting emissions of nitrogen oxides that give us acid rain. The carrot for them is that as long as they stick to the agreement and cut the emissions in line with it, they release a NOx fee. When I say that this is a jewel in Norwegian environmental policy, it is because this turned out to be working. As a result, Norway exceeded its international commitments to cut emissions leading to acid rain. In the budgetary unity between SV and the government parties this autumn, we have laid the basis for a new jewel in Norwegian environmental policy. SV has been made aware of a similar regime for oil companies to cut greenhouse gas emissions. The government is now under an obligation to establish an agreement on climate change between the government and the oil companies to cut emissions. SV believes that oil companies must take the same responsibility as all of us and cut the emissions by 55 pst. by 2030, compared to 1990. The carrot we offer them is that they should get rid of an increased CO 2 fee. Instead, they should be able to use that money to cut greenhouse gas emissions from oil companies themselves. That's how we can get speed in the climate battle and work to cut emissions. The joy is that the oil companies themselves and the industry themselves have praised this idea. We are now looking forward to the government starting this work quickly, so that next year we may have entered into such an agreement with the oil companies and secure the emission cuts in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1907	The representative of Mr Birgit Oline Kjerstad has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1912	The reason why we're skeptical about continuing oil and gas pipelines is that the Climate Panel and the IEA have said that we can't take up any more. That's the background. Then we have to deal with that knowledge in a responsible way. Furthermore, sooner or later it will become empty, and if we are to continue with the oil and gas extraction we are currently doing, when will this plane land? We have to start landing it, we have to start taking care of other types of value creation. Furniture industry, finished goods industry – we can carry on with a lot of good industry without necessarily being directly oil-based.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1917	The Norwegian state will serve between 30 billion. kr and 40 br. NOK to skin Norwegian citizens on the electricity price. Then there's a settlement launched here today where you're going to spend 6-7 billion. NOK and pay back to Norwegian households, mainly housing aid and social assistance. The Progress Party has asked the Ministry what this will mean for Norwegian electricity customers. What would it mean for Norwegian families to go from 50 pst. to 55 pst.? We get feedback that the department can't answer that. I am strongly responding to it, and I expect to get an answer from the Council of State after my post on what this will actually mean. It is alarming if the government has entered into an agreement without knowing what this will mean. I registered that the representative Aasland was in that there was a love relationship between the Red Party and the Advance Party. I can assure you that there will never be any love from the Party of Advancement to Communists, either now or before – as opposed to the Workers' Party, which has more to say about that, historically. So to the network rental: we've read in the media about the introduction of a rush-time charge on electricity, and what Energy Norway says about what is not feasible in practice. I know there has been a demand for a response from the Council of State from the pulpit on whether this is correct. Does this mean that the Storting is invited to take a decision that cannot be implemented? I would like an assurance from the Council of State that the government will actually implement it and make sure to stop the fact that Norwegian power customers will be punished for living a completely normal life – shower in the morning, make dinner in the middle of the day – and stop encouraging the population to wash clothes in the middle of the night, which in worst cases can be flammable. I have to say that I now expect the Council of State to come to the pulpit and explain this before this debate is over, otherwise I don't see exactly how we can agree to adopt something that we haven't received a response to what will mean for Norwegian power customers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1930	The representative Sofie Marhaug has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1935	Red's energy policy, which is about taking political control and control of power for the benefit of both Norwegian households and industry, is actually good, old-fashioned social-democratic policy. The fact that the Workers' Party has abandoned this policy that they have faced historically is sad, and it is particularly sad for the Workers' Party and the Labour Party's voters. If the Workers' Party had wanted less polarization, they could have cooperated with Red for political control and management, so that we get reasonable prices of power, both for Norwegian households and for Norwegian industry. And that the Progress Party takes a close look at Red's policy – at Red's social-democratic policy, which I would say is in this case, historically and in fact – is at the expense of the Progress Party. That they become socialists in opposition will be on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1940	It is not my wish to extend a long debate, but when the representative Pollestad of the Central Party comes up with what is clearly untruth from the pulpit, it must be corrected. I understand that the representative Pollestad may be fresh in the finance committee, but it is a blank lie that we in SV have spent significantly more oil money in our alternative budget. On the contrary, every year while we've been in opposition, we've spent less oil money than the previous government, and we're at the same level this year. We have also shown in the budget comparisons in the autumn that we are in the process of reducing the use of oil money, and that we should rather increase the Community's revenue through more redistributive taxation. On the other hand, if you want to see the use of oil money, you can take a look at the last alternative budgets of the Central Party, which have good examples of this. When we first talk about money use, I think it's interesting to come to one of the other points in Pollestad's articles, namely the deal that was made at Stortinget last year related to the oil tax agenda. It is still completely incomprehensible to me that the bulk of the population that adopted changes in the oil tax return actually involves tax subsidies to oil of more than 10 billion. kr. If you want to see the background that SV believes that the Norwegian economy has become too oil dependent, you can see that here. It doesn't make any sense, then, that parties that would otherwise adorn themselves with being both responsible and positive to market forces believe it's natural for the state to go in and give tax cuts when the oil price falls. Here, the Central Party was also among those who were most eager to increase those subsidies. What kind of precedent is the majority of the population thought to be creating by the fact that when market forces contribute to reducing the performance of companies, is the state going to set up? It is also worth noting that the oil price, quite quickly after the agreement, came up markedly. In practice, the tax bill should be increased in order to increase Community revenue, but the willingness of the tax cut to earn Aker BP and Equinor was far greater than it has been in order to increase its return to the community when the oil price increases.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1947	Today we could wake up to a very pleasant announcement to the morning coffee. Enova could report that they had allocated three exciting hydrogen projects well across the country – with different technologies, and where large scale both green and blue hydrogen were on the wallpaper. This is a great follow-up to the Solarberg hydrogen strategy. It supports industry, the maritime industries and our natural advantages, which are gas and renewable energy, for example. hydropower. Hydrogen is a very good example of how we can build on this competence that we have now acquired, while at the same time developing new areas where we can create values, Norwegian jobs and technologies that help reduce emissions globally. The fact that we now put this hydrogen production in Norway, has been important to the Right. Difor showed us both hydrogen strategy and road map when we put in government. I might have expected, with the rhetoric used by the government party in the election campaign, that there would be a little new policy in the area when the budget was now presented, but we haven't seen it – and I kept saying fortunately, because there was a lot of talk about the state hydrogen company. That approach we've heard little about lately, and well it is. The State shall be a facilitator, contribute to the instrumentation and be a driver of public procurement. The rest of us can get away with our innovative and competent clusters. I think it's today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1956	I would just like briefly to thank you for a good and exciting debate. Then I must stress that the love relationship established between the Progress Party and the Red Party has strengthened through this debate. I don't think there's going to be any break there with the first, as they each put themselves under the 'irresponsibility' tab in political expression. Because it's actually like that when one then until the degrees don't acknowledge the responsibility they've had over time, and not least for seven out of the last eight years as head of the Oil and Energy Department. Why were no measures taken to prevent the functioning of the market? Why were no measures taken to cut the restrictions on the foreign tables? Why were there no other regulations when the Progress Party was in the Ministry of Oil and Energy? Well, because they wanted – and want – exactly what's going on right now. They have been heating up on more markets, more cables and even less control over the situation in Norwegian energy supply. That is the reality. And when the representative, Mr. Listhaug, challenges the Secretary of State for Oil and Energy, that package is $1.1 billion. NOK, and we will deal with that matter later today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1964	The representative Nikolai Astrup has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1969	To the representative of Aasland's posts right now, it is possible to add that there was broad agreement on all the energy policy choices that were taken under the previous government as well, so his production is not quite correct. When it comes to love, the ways of love are unanswerable, so I'm not going to go into it, but we can dwell on it in our paycheck. I am interested to hear the Council of State's answer to the question asked by the representative of Listhaug. Is it so that the Storting is now invited to take a decision that cannot be implemented with regard to the introduction of a new network lease?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1978	The representative Frank Edvard Sve has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1983	When I hear the leader of the Energy and Environment Committee, Terje Aasland, mentioning other party, I thought it might be an advantage to have respect for others' opinions. He mentions it as unprofessional that we want to spend some of the 30-40 billion. kr which is consumed by the State due to sky-high extra revenue, when the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV will use only a few billion, 6, 7 or 8 billion. To mention it as unprofessional is quite special. Then he just gets to use the rhetoric as he likes. I still want to highlight the question that I had to the Council of State instead, about what is the difference between 50 and 55 pst. in cut over 70 ears in the different fractions. The councils are in the hall, and I expect that we'll get an answer. It's a bill, and then we have to have everything in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1990	The representative, Geir Pollestad, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e1995	It's like at the beginning of a relationship, sometimes communication can be a little problematic. So I would like to make a comment about the attack I got from Kaski, which I myself had triggered. It is quite right that SV's use of oil money is similar to what the government had promised. What I pointed out was that one picks up 50 billion. kr more in additional taxes and taxes from oil and gas industries. It's a fact that I think SV lives very well with. Similarly, the petroleum tax package applies. I also believe the Center Party and SV lives well with that very thing we are some about being disagreeable about, as one says in this kind of relationship.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2000	I noticed that the representative of Aasland called it irresponsible to want to help people who are now in a very difficult situation -- people who have problems paying their bills, people who are now sitting and worried about Christmas, because if they're going to afford to buy food, if they're going to afford to buy Christmas presangs, and if they're going to afford to gather the family, to the extent that this is possible in this corona situation. What is irresponsible is the situation in which many Norwegian households are now. It's sky-high power prices. The representative is talking about when the Progress Party was in and out. The prices were not close to the level that we see at the Workers' Party and the Senter's Watch. And then the question is, what do you do with that? Action paralysis is the best word I can come up with, and we now see that there are crumbs that are being given, while the state is going to serve itself a quest. Food prices are rising, fuel prices are sky-high, and as if not enough, the government is going to charge even more in there next year. We've had a jump of interest, which will also sweat in the wallets of many Norwegian families. After all, we have to see that it is the turn of ordinary people to be skinned that is the result of the new government. I note that the Council of State has finally asked for the floor. Then there are two things that are important to get answers to. Can the Council of State guarantee that the introduction of an electricity curfew charge from 1 January will be deferred? The second thing is, what does it mean for a regular household that you go from 50 to 55 pst?? Most people in this country do not receive housing support. Fortunately, not all of them need social assistance either. The question is, what does this mean for ordinary families, in addition to the proposal that the government has already made? And to the representative of Aasland, yes, we've been told that it's 1,1 billion. kr. Much of this goes to social assistance and housing support. But the question is, what is left of ordinary Norwegian households?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2011	The President is cautiously suggesting that most of this debate may soon be said.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2016	I share the President's opinion that most things may have been said. Moreover, it is well that we are still in the budget debate, and that we should discuss the legislative proposal after the Energy and Environment Committee has given its opinion later today. But I'd like to answer questions from Stortingen's pulpit. The government proposes that for the months of December, January, February and March we should cover 50 pst. of the electricity bill of ordinary people when the power price exceeds 70 cents. It's a proposal that makes us follow households all the way. If the electricity prices go up, the households get more, and if they go down on assumption, based on what we think will happen right now, they're going to get less. So it's increasing from 50 to 55 pst. That means that you're increasing the support rate, from covering half of the bill to covering 55 pst. of the bill. But the exact amount will vary according to both the power consumption and not least the power price in the price range in which you live. So I think we can come back to this debate once the Energy and Environment Committee has actually given its opinion. Then it is also easier for both the Council of State and the Storting to deal with the facts in the discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2025	Since most things have been said, and since I don't want to be a troublemaker, I'm going to avoid commenting on the fact that there are some parties here that compete for new power generation, but at the same time are too low, stable power prices in the future. It's not going to go up if we're actually going to achieve the climate targets. I would also like to mention that I think it is alarming that during the debate we do not receive a clear response from the government related to hybrid cables and sea winds. They say it's coming, but there's obviously a big split inside the government, which means that we're worried that you don't get a profitable development of sea wind on the scale that you can get, and that very big companies are ready and ready to go on. But what I came up to say is that the Right wants to support proposal No. 8 in the setting, and that we can notice that, and then I'm going to avoid prolonging the meeting further.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2034	The representative Sylvi Listhaug has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2040	I wish I wouldn't take the word again, but the reason I do is that we didn't get a response to what happened to the web rental from 1 January. The question is: is it being exposed or is it not being exposed? We read in the media what Energy Norway says, and we would like a guarantee from the Council of State that it is actually being followed up, and that we do not impose a rush-time charge on electricity. In terms of calculations, the Progress Party has sent questions, which we want answers to, about what 55 pst. I want to say. I hope that the Council of State will now turn the office in motion, so that we can get answers to these questions until we discuss this matter later today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2047	I'll make it very short. I answered so far the question of what that means. So you get 55 pst, if you increase from 50 to 55 pst, over that which is a force price of 70 cents, up to 5,000 kWt. It's not that hard to understand, I'll assume. Finally, I would like to say that what we are discussing in this Chamber right now is the attitude of the Committee on Energy and the Environment on appropriations for the State Budget for 2022 and chapters under the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the areas of the Ministry of Climate and Environment, and I will not comment on a position that the Committee on Energy and the Environment has not taken. We will get back to that when that matter is to be discussed in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2054	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 19, 20 and 21. Case No. 22-24 will be treated as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2098	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to four lines will be given with replies after submissions from the main speakers of the lots and six lines with replies from members of the government. Those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2105	The Committee has examined the State budget for the framework areas of the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and changes for the current year. I would like to thank the Committee for its willingness to act quickly after many changes in deadlines to achieve targets. Because of the situation we're in with regard to the pandemic, we've tried to cut the debate short. That's why I want to go straight to my post and expect those parties that are not part of the budget agreement to explain their views. We in common are going to solve the conversion we're in as a nation. The state is an important precursor and interacter for us to use the Norwegian resources to create value for the best in the community. At the same time, we are in the middle of a pandemic that is partly unwieldy, and where both people and business are tired of one action after another. Our task is to ensure that as many as possible can have security for work and that they can pay their bills. At the same time, we're going to lay the foundation for the moment after the pandemic. Many industries are already doing well, while others are struggling heavily. They have my great understanding. Still, things sometimes take longer than you want. It is therefore important for me to repeat the message that we should help as far as possible and as quickly as possible while the pandemic is here. Norway will face major challenges in the years to come, with more jobs being created, more jobs being created across the country, increased exports and cut greenhouse gas emissions. To address these challenges, a more active industrial policy will be needed. Private ownership shall continue to be the starting point for Norwegian business. At the same time, it is appropriate in some areas to use state ownership to ensure national control of energy and natural resources, important infrastructure and strategically important parts of the Norwegian economy, not least by entering and contributing capital. These instruments are strengthened by the budgetary agreement on the table. We stopped the slaughter of SIVA and announced a review of the instrument. This was necessary, for Norway needs to improve its external trade balance. Increasing Norwegian exports is a clear goal for the government and the Central Party. Norwegian industry then becomes important. Within a limited space of action and in a short time, this budget re-disposals and peaks of research and innovation instruments in order to trigger major private investment. It's necessary. It will accelerate the green shift and create viable green industries, new technologies and jobs throughout Norway. The Centre Party and the Workers' Party want to continue their efforts to create an even larger industry around Norway as a Roma nation. It follows the government up. That is also what the budgetary conciliation is about. I am very pleased about that, especially as a northerner. The maritime industry that we see across the country is an important cornerstone of many communities and creates great values for Norway. The subsidy scheme for employment of seafarers, also referred to as the net pay scheme, shall contribute to the maintenance of Norwegian maritime competence and the recruitment of Norwegian seafarers. This scheme is reinforced by 227 million. kr with this budgetary agreement. It's a significant reinforcement. The fishing and aquaculture industries are of major importance for the Norwegian economy. They represent large value creation, settlement and workplaces along the coast. A new quota notification, as promised in the Hurdal platform, will therefore be absolutely necessary. Furthermore, we need to facilitate development and more sustainable breeding activities. Important measures, such as the involvement of ships in short sea shipping and fishing, are being continued and strengthened, and not least we are facilitating more research and monitoring of the sea. If we are to have a strong food industry with major ring-effects in the future, we will not get away with the fact that we must also bring the raw materials producers, Norwegian farmers and fishermen. We've got a government that sees the value of agriculture and forestry, what industries mean for jobs, opportunities for development, preparedness and activity throughout this country. It will therefore be an important task to close the income gap between agriculture and other groups and ensure that we continue to have agriculture throughout the country. That job has already been started by the fact that agriculture is allocated almost 1 billion. kr in this budget. At the same time, we set up Bionova, which will contribute to fulfilling the country and agriculture agreement on greenhouse gas cuts, but also develop Norwegian feed resources for other parts of food production. There are also a number of other reinforcements, one of which is the strengthening of the Food Authority. Norwegian animal welfare is at the top of the world. It must also be in the future. The budget agreement is an important piece in building a business life rusted for the future. It is necessary to achieve the other objectives of the Centre Party and the Workers' Party. With that, I consider the vote of the Committee to be adjourned.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2130	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2135	What people are wondering about today, while we're standing here a week before Christmas, is whether they have a job after Christmas. What they're going to do right now, they're going to ask, is they're going to get paid for Christmas. The thing about travel life, restaurants and dining places is whether they can employ people. The right has invited to talks with the government parties to ensure a payroll scheme, and to give people the security they need for Christmas. Why doesn't the government have black?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2140	This is not a Question Time, and I am not the Council of State, so I cannot answer why the Council of State or the Government may not have answered. But what I can say to the representative is that it is already announced that there will be a wage support scheme to be designed in cooperation with the social partners. I know it has been working closely and intensely since the warning came last week. It is warned that it should be clear within this week, and hopefully today. I am counting on the government to follow up the dialogue you had with the social partners, and also what has been the expectation of the Stortinget – that you should put in place such a system. The numbers in that I can't necessarily go into here and now, but I can assure the representative and people who are waiting for this arrangement, that it's under design, and it's coming into place.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2151	That's very nice to hear. I don't quite understand why it's taken so long. But then my question is: How does the representative see that this can save jobs, for example? in the districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2158	The purpose of a wage support scheme is to avoid permitting, precisely to allow people to go to work and retain the skills of different parts of business – especially in events, culture and not least in the food industry – because it would be difficult to recruit people when we get out of the pandemic. One of the greatest challenges we have as a nation is to provide enough labour and, above all, the right skills. A pay-as-you-go scheme could help to make this a bit easier. That is why a wage support scheme will help businesses in the districts, but also in the rest of the country. I assume that you get in place – and that that is what is being solved. And then I have to say that in many ways I understand the impatience to put in place a pay support scheme. But it is now that there are some practical details about putting in place a kind of wage support scheme that needs to be clarified. It shall also be designed in cooperation with the social partners, as requested by them. Then, unfortunately – as I was in my main post – it takes the time it takes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2165	For many years the Centre Party has been talking about scrapping the EEA Agreement and it has created considerable uncertainty about market access to the EEA Agreement. Several company owners have stood up in different media and have said that they are concerned about the policy of the Centre Party, and they believe that the EEA Agreement ensures thousands of Norwegian jobs. The representative of Nordlund stated at the end of August that the EEA Agreement is a disadvantage in sum and that the Central Party wishes to replace the EEA Agreement with trade and cooperation agreements with the EU. In the government we record that the Centre Party is continuing the EEA Agreement without any changes, and the Minister for Fisheries and the Sea was ready to attend the Norwegian Fisheries Team's national meeting: ‘Let it be clear that the EEA Agreement is the basis for our relationship with Europe.’ The EEA Agreement has served the industry well, it ensures stable framework conditions and gives Norwegian seafood access to the EU. Has the Central Party lost the fight for the EEA Agreement in government? And can Norwegian export industries rely on the guarantees of the Minister for Fisheries and the Sea that the EEA Agreement is in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2175	It is no secret that the Central Party is very skeptical of the democratic deficit contained in the EEA Agreement and that it has also been pointed out that it is the central party's primary policy. Then I believe that the representative, Mrs Strifeldt, could not have read the government platform properly either, because it is well known that the scope for action contained in the EEA Agreement should be used. I have been in a lot of debates, and this is saying, but taking advantage of the space for action necessarily also means that the agreement is not firm. So, as far as I can see, we have been allowed to use the space of action within the EEA Agreement to ensure Norwegian interests, which I thought the representative was very much in favour of, at least according to the debate that was before us.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2181	The Chairman of the Committee spoke a great deal in his speech about the importance of Norwegian ownership, Norwegian companies, Norwegian value creation, and I fully agree with that. But it is then a great paradox that as part of the new government's changes in the budget, and even more so in the comparison with SV, there are tax sharps in just Norwegian ownership and Norwegian value creation. It is one of the first steps taken by the government in the field of industrial policy, and it is now the framework of specific farming, where the tax burden through the changes that were first proposed by the Solberg Government, which I in principle agree with, is now almost double through the budget as it has now become. This is dramatic. I now get to write protest letters from the Central Party spokesmen on the coast of my county. Will the centre party be involved and now at least make sure to base a reasonable understanding on the setting of sales values, and that we can work on finding models for this in cooperation with the industry, which reduces this very extra burden that the new majority has imposed on the farming industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2186	It's a fact that we have a new political majority in this country that says you have to have a different distribution of costs and burdens, so that we can create development everywhere. Then the representative is quite right about the fact that the Left was part of the previous government, which proposed this tax change to the Stortinget, and unfortunately it has not in the short time that the government and the Central Party had been able to assess changes within that tightening of the tax. And that's also the relationship that the representative is right about, that in sum we're concerned about having a good Norwegian ownership, and that we're going to have a tax regime that provides the basis for further growth. History has shown that this has been done by the Norwegian tax authorities. Then I'm going to reassure the representative that neither the Right nor the Left in the financial debate has put in anything that makes it possible to assess it for the next year, but I assume, if the burden becomes too high, that it is assessed for the state budget for 2023.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2191	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2196	This fall we became known as a government change where the Workers' Party and the Center Party took over after eight years with the Right and Advance Party. And what is the status of business policy after eight years of blue-blue governance? Exports first: Menon Economics demonstrated in the summer that no comparable country has lost market shares as quickly as Norway in recent years, although the krone has deteriorated sharply. – A brutally honest but important report. It paints a picture of a gloomy situation," said Peggy Sensvik. Unfortunately, the LO leader was quite right. So for agriculture: the Progress Party Sylvi Listhaug took over the Ministry of Agriculture in 2013. Then followed years when the farmer became increasingly accomplices. In 2021 the desire had become so full that the peasant revolt was established, the same year as the government landed an agricultural settlement that gave despair to farmers under half of what they asked for. – More than good enough, the comment from the Progress Party was for that settlement. In the fisheries sector, the right-wing government has done well with the quota notification, with a limited majority and a number of unresolved questions. Or, as the Norwegian State Government said, ‘the notification of quotas and the treatment of Stortinget has put the whole fishing industry in an almost impossible situation in which important framework conditions for the future appear to be very unexplained.’ This is probably the reason why ordinary people, such as industrial workers, farmers and fishermen, turned their backs on the Right and the Advance Party in the Grand Election. And the jam has been a lot to deal with for the new Workers' Party-Center Party government in industrial policy – even before high power prices and the omicron virus began to demand its own. We in the Labour Party and the Center Party believe that working for everyone in a safe working life is the key to a fairer distribution and freedom for the individual. We want more young people to have a chance in the workplace. We want a more active industrial policy to create new jobs, cut emissions and increase exports, and we want permanent jobs and a safe pension for everyone. It's more important to us than more tax gifts to those who already have the most. The Hurdal platform aims to increase mainland exports by a total of 50 pst. by 2030, that we should reduce the agricultural income gap and that we should draw up a new quota notification providing predictability for the fishing industry and ensuring settlement, activity and profitability along the coast. At my daughter's school, it hangs a red box, a heart attacker. A heartbreaker sends bursts of energy into the body when the crisis strikes. It saves lives. Workers, farmers, fishermen and not least hotel and restaurant and travel staff now need a heart attacker. Young people also do so in Norway. The blue recipe of the right administration doubled the number of young people in Norway. Now our young people also need a red heart-starter, a new start to create all the skilled workers that all of Norway needs to create together the values in the future. Work for everyone has always been the number one job for the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. We're going to send shocks of energy into companies that are faltering. We will build new partnerships between the private sector and the public sector. We will raise the value creation and secure jobs throughout Norway, we will secure the future of industrial workers, farmers and fishermen, because now the common people are on their way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2221	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2226	Rarely have I been more surprised to hear the Workers' Party and the Senter Party in a debate and government parties in a nutrition committee as well as in spite of business as today. We're in one of our worst crises. The business life fades. Businesses call around the clock and are puzzled that we do not see any action by the government in connection with people’s right to leave – do not get pay support and compensation schemes in place. The Central Party and the Labour Party started the debate in the Business Committee without mentioning it in a word. I'm scared if this represents the effort now made by the government to put in place compensation schemes and wage support so that people can keep their jobs into Christmas. What will the Workers' Party do in the next few hours to get a security and that people don't go into Christmas with uncertainty about whether you have a job or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2235	I don't think the representative of Greece got everything that was said in my post, because then we were in both power and corona. The Workers' Party shares the Right's concerns with ordinary people who meet Christmas and are concerned about their jobs. It is now working day and night to fix good solutions for people who have problems. I would like to remind the representative from the Right that the progress of the Workers' Party-Center Party-government is quite different from when the Right controlled, and that it comes parcels much faster than it did at the time. In fact, the Storting had to, among other things. The Working Party and the Centre Party override the Right to get proper packages in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2242	I think representative Kjölmoen hangs a little bit in election mode again, because here there was a lot of party rhetoric. I'll leave it, because the rest of us have gotten a little bit further. We're in the middle of a new pandemic wave, and we're trying to solve it -- and it's urgent. I understand that it has taken time to put in place a detailed wage support system to make the best possible use of in this crisis. I respect that. But we got the footage from the parties at the end of November. An invitation to cross-political discussions came from the Right Week afterwards, at the beginning of December. Now it's one week until Christmas, and we still have no solution in place. Why does it take so long?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2249	Now I think the Right has to decide whether they understand that this takes time, or whether they don't understand that this takes time. But I can only repeat my previous answer, that it is now working day and night. The progress under the Workers' Party and the Center Party is quite different from when the Right controlled. At the time, the Storting had to oversee the government in several cases to put in place proper compensation schemes. I think the government deserves to boast for good progress this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2254	The cooling house did not mention it in one word in its contribution, but when the addition of the Støre government to the state budget was presented, it was presented as a strengthening of the net pay system, but it was only a strengthening in relation to the Solberg government's proposal, which had never been made by. In reality, the budget of the Støre-Registration significantly weakens the net pay scheme because it now introduces ceilings on the five grant models that have not previously been capped. The three grant models that have temporarily raised the ceiling as a corona measure receive a withdrawal, only unless adjustments that can hardly be called a reinforcement. The ceiling for the model ship in NIS is continued at 26 p.m., exactly as before. The ceiling for the two models of petroleum ships in NOR and construction ships in NIS is marginally strengthened and goes from NOK 26,000 in 2020 to NOK 220 000 in 2022 – not even enough to cover the price growth of the two years. Has Kjölmoen and Arbeiderpartei taken a little Møller’s Tran when they have described the change in the net pay scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2261	The working party is happy in Møller’s Tran. It is a good Norwegian industrial product that deserves a lot of sales, so we like to drink a lot of Møller’s Tran and encourage everyone else to do the same, including representatives from the Progress Party. In terms of net pay, I have to remind the representative, Bjørnstad, that it takes time to correct eight years with the policies of the Right and the Advance Party, but we have therefore come with 277 million. kr on top of Erna Solberg's budget in terms of net pay, and that seems to me to be a good start in an important matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2269	It's kind of nice to talk to the right representative Kjølmoen about how the voters at the choice turn their backs to the Right and the Advance Party because they were not happy. I'm assuming that he might have gotten the latest opinion measure right now, where the voters in a big way turn their backs on the Workers' Party and the Center's party because they're actually seeing how big a gap between the pitch and what's actually being delivered. I'm so lucky to belong to a game that the selectors don't turn their back on, either at the time of the selection or in the measurements now, but now leave it alone. Anyway, it's urgent to deliver policies that work in the industries that are currently operating under the last coronary restrictions, especially the food, leisure and travel industries. All the businesses I've been talking to, yelling now after something's happening. Last week the Minister of Industry from the Workers' Party said that the municipal compensation scheme now has 1.2 billion. which are ready to be paid out to enterprises that need it across the country. Can the representative Kjölmoen say, "When are these money coming?" Is there now extra money ready to be paid out to the companies before Christmas, or is this even one of the lifts that is a piece into the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2278	The president reminds me of speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2283	I think it's bold of a left-wing representative to start talking about election opening in a line to the Workers' Party, that's what they say. When it comes to working for people who are struggling in the hotel, restaurant and travel industry, I can only repeat the answers to the Right. Now it is working day and night to put in place good solutions, and the progress of the Workers' Party and the Centre is, as has been said before, a completely different one this time than the progress was then, among other things. Left steered along with Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2290	The President would like to remind you that it is fine if the representatives stood by the interlocutors while they are being answered. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2297	I should have liked to be here in other circumstances. What was supposed to be an entrance to Christmas, with a broken pandemic, has become the true opposite. Enterprises by industry are now sending out notices of leave to their employees and fears that the enterprise will end. The uncertainty hurts too many people who now have to hear the Silver Boys with a lump in their throats of the long trittered variety. The new disease protection measures create uncertainty for businesses and workers. We do not see a total closure as at the beginning of the pandemic, but many of the companies still experience that today's infectious diseases measures contribute to considerable economic losses and considerable uncertainty for employees. In particular, travel life and the food industry are affected. Many accommodations, travel operators and restaurants would spend this Christmas time collecting financial losses as a result of the pandemic for almost two years. What our businesses need now is predictability and security. For this reason, the Right early suggested that all the time the government takes measures affecting business, compensation should also be provided in the form of a pay support scheme, so that businesses can keep employees in employment rather than permitting. So also with a national compensation scheme that helps to provide security and predictability. But unfortunately, we are now hearing that the compensation scheme provides great limits both on the fact that companies are not able to profit, and demands for dividend regulation, which may and will mean that very many fewer companies will be able to benefit from a compensation scheme. The wage subsidy scheme has also taken a very long time. It's announced the press conference tonight, and that's good. The companies are bleeding, they're afraid of a flight of skills, and they're now sitting with a very bad feeling when they have to send out the perm notice and send people out on the leave of Christmas. It is with the background that the Right has asked the Minister of Finance to come to the Storting today to explain what the wage subsidy scheme should contain, and the Right is very pleased that the Minister of Finance has accepted that invitation. We look forward to hearing what commitments and what messages can be sent to all the managers who are now counting on the buttons whether to leave or not, and whether to use the pay-as-you-go scheme. The right is on the offer page. We want cooperation and a broad anchoring in the Stortinget on the compensation scheme and on salary subsidies. The most important thing we can give now from the Biggest side is predictability, and the Right will do what we can to get the solutions quickly in place. Then I am pleased that we are now jointly presenting a budget adopted today, which also clearly shows that the Storting will in future facilitate green and sustainable growth. It is important that we facilitate business needs for good and general framework conditions, and that we do not give our businesses increased taxes or increased taxes, but that we stimulate business start-ups, jobs and Norwegian private ownership. It has to be central. It is also important that we strengthen grant schemes, loan frameworks and capital instruments that stimulate increased research, development and innovation in business, and it is not least important that we facilitate the development of competences. Our companies are asking for competence, and there must also be something the Storting is striving to facilitate in 2022. Competence gaps and skills challenges must not be a barrier to our businesses. At the same time, it is also important that we ensure predictable, stable framework conditions. In the troubled times in which Norway is in, and in which the world is in, it is above all what our businesses and business need.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2316	Should the representative make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2321	Just because the Minister of Finance agreed to the Right’s invitation to join the Stortinget at the end of the day and explain the arrangement of the payroll scheme, the Right will draw up the proposal that the Stortinget ask the Government to promote a proposal for wage support before the New Year.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2326	Fine. Then we'll go to the cord shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2333	I am recording that the government in express travel is sending out a letter from the Right to come and inform the Stortinget about a new pay compensation scheme, and that is very good. The concern expressed by the representative towards business and those who have an uncertain everyday life today seems to me to be commendable. If we are concerned about this with the wage support scheme and regulatory conditions to help ensure Norwegian competence and develop several Norwegian jobs, it might be interesting to hear reflections from the Right on why this does not apply to Norwegian maritime industry. For example, there was a choice of the Right reducing the net pay scheme, which would have weakened Norwegian competitiveness, making more jobs unsafe and likely to lead to fewer Norwegian seafarers. What is the reason why we do not have the same concern for Norwegian maritime industry and Norwegian seafarers as the one to which we are now commendable to other workers?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2342	I think our position and political position here is well known, and this has meant the Right over time. We are committed to facilitating the availability of skilled labour for our entire business life. If we are to win a strong international competition in the conversion and in the green shift, we must have the top competence that our companies need in many fields. It's about the fact that we have to educate the students and the people that our businesses need. It's about that we also have to strengthen the colleges, and that we have to make sure that maritime nutrition has access to the skills they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2349	Last summer the team Menon Economics Export message 2021. It shows that no comparable country has lost more market share than Norway in recent years. Is Greece itself satisfied that Norway has collapsed as an export nation after eight years of right-wing party rule?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2355	It worries me a little bit -- the black paint that the Workers' Party is more concerned about, and the picture the Workers' Party is drawing from an export industry that actually goes pretty well. We're going to have very good export numbers as we go out of this year. But I agree that we will also bet more to get even better. Therefore, the Solberg government provided some new arrangements to strengthen our exports. We are concerned about what we can do now to bet on, among other things. hydrogen to ensure that green shipping is raised internationally, that we are attractive to the establishment of battery factories and data centres, and that our industry – which is so advanced in its competence – will have every opportunity to claim and win in exporting goods.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2362	Me and the Progress Party share the concern of Greece that the government will spend and wash its hands in these days when we have a business that is struggling acutely. The heart-starter that Kjölmoen talked about in his post has been dribbling for many weeks, and the government has not grasped it. We know that even if a compensation scheme is in place — which has also been in use in the past — companies will be excluded. That is why we came up with – in cooperation with the New Age government last year – the municipal compensation scheme, which is to catch up with those outside. And it's also set to wait for some reason. I wonder if the former district minister, who has visited a lot of businesses in the districts, could have said anything about the importance of such a valve arrangement for the companies outside? Does she share our wish that it should be put in place as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2371	I am pleased that the opposition is concerned with the crisis in which our businesses are – and perhaps our industry is also coming in the long term – especially the businesses that are in the region of travel: the small tour operators, the small hotels and restaurants – yes, the private family-run businesses around the district of Norway. They report very difficult times. Therefore, I cannot understand why the government has said that a municipal compensation scheme should be prepared. They're going to spend a billion dollars. kr, but it is only ready. We're past the rescue point now; it's serious. We are in a situation where many jobs around in District Norway will be lost. That the government does not provide an arrangement for the use of the municipal compensation scheme by municipalities of 1 billion. kr – that it will not be clear before Christmas – I think it is scary. I am very pleased that the Progress Party and the Right agree that this must take place as soon as possible. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2378	I remember speaking time – that is why it is counted down on the floor of the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2383	I don't fully understand right. They've been in government for eight years. When the crisis broke out in March 2020, we had a collection at Stortinget, and a collective opposition slaughtered what then came from the government. There came a package that was too small, he didn't want to Mona. Opposition – SV, Workers’ Party, Centre Party, Progress Party, etc. - Save the government. At that time, the government was also opposed to wage support. It wasn't about. We raised it in negotiations, it wasn't about, it was a terrible system, here we were going to have a permitting system, etc. And it wasn't about doing anything with exchange, cancellations, clay bonuses, etc. – it was almost straightforward to bring in that kind of stuff. Then we've seen afterwards that half of those who have received support have actually taken it as an exchange. There's public money on the go, and then one comes now and is upset that one has come too short. Can the representative explain why the Right has turned around? What do they now mean by exchange, etc.?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2388	I'll explain. I will also explain to the representative Knag Fylkesnes that after almost two years of pandemic, I am very surprised that a new virus seems to be coming very unprepared for the government. It's very problematic for our businesses, for business, that there is so much uncertainty. I agree that there were arrangements that took some time during the Solberg administration, but then it was also quite new. I'm very concerned if the SV with the Workers' Party and the Centre are now getting the impression that there is to be a requirement for dividend regulation, i.e. dividends, that some people raised, precisely because there is only symbol policy. It's just a matter of time when you're going to take dividends, whether you're going to take it this year or next year, and setting dividends will make so many companies and companies go beyond schemes that are meant to help... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2393	Time's up. So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2400	The Progress Party shall provide an ambitious budget for the country's business life, which rates our main industries and clusters, and Norway has a comparative advantage. It is a budget that ensures a value-creating and productive business that employs people all over the country. The reason why we are the most privileged people in Norway, who have the opportunity to distribute a lot of money for all of the more or less good purposes, is the value-creating business we have. Without them, we would have very few revenues for the public. Our task must first of all be to bake the cake bigger, and there are the solutions of the Progress Party far better than the socialist option that gets majority today. Let me mention some big stakes in our alternative budget: the maritime industry means a lot too much to the whole of Coast Norway. We propose to strengthen the net pay scheme by nearly 1 billion. kr, that we are continuing the lifting of the ceilings that are in the arrangements today, which is an entirely targeted action to ensure that more Norwegians are employed on Norwegian ships in maritime transport. Of course, it is a favourable arrangement – a very favourable arrangement – but we also have to have it if Norwegian seafarers are to be employed on the ships. As I said, today's majority do, in reality, to make the system worse than it has been, while in the rhetoric used, it is said to be getting better. That's not true. And then we're going to continue the offshore ship reconnaissance system. We know there's a lot of overcapacity along the coast on offshore ships. A lot of ships are in custody, and because of debts and guarantees they remain there. We had a conditioning system up to this year, which has worked well, with a great application, but for incomprehensible reasons the government removes that system. We're proposing to add 150 million. kr, in order to enable the ship reconnaissance system to continue. It will give jobs to the shipyards along the coast. Furthermore, we believe that there is a need for a large-scale investment in minerals, both to secure values, for value creation and to contribute to the green shift. We know that electrification is going to make us need a lot of minerals, and then we can't sit and watch that those minerals are extracted in Africa under very unworthy conditions, when Norway has large mineral deposits itself. We are proposing both to give money to NGU, so that you can look for more minerals, and to the Directorate of Mineral Management, so that you can reduce the application time, and also to set up a state mineral fund of 1 billion. kr. Not over 20 years old, taxes and charges have increased so much from one year to another as for the next year, almost 10 billion. kr. The last red-green tax increases, over eight years, were 5.2 billion. kr. Now you do almost twice as much in one year as you did in the last eight years. It is clear that it weakens the competitiveness of industry, especially when you go in surgically and specifically to take on the Norwegian private sector. One weakens the competitiveness of Oskar Sylte, but strengthens the competitiveness of the major capitalist Coca-Cola. It is incomprehensible that a government that claims to be too common people in Norway prioritises Coca-Cola over Oskar Sylte. There has been a debate in the autumn on active versus passive industrial policy. There has been a debate with, as we say in Trøndelag,'mytjy bee and little wool'. There hasn't been so much concrete to pick up, there's been a lot of talk – a lot of beautiful and friendly words and expressions, intentions and views, but we now see, in the face of the crisis, that very little happens. As I said, the heart-starter has been shaking for weeks. The government does not take it down from the wall, does not use the opportunity to strengthen the Norwegian business community, which is now experiencing a crisis. I refer to the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2421	The representative Sivert Bjørnstad has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2428	The Progress Party says they want to invest in industries that use Norwegian resources and have a great potential for creating values and jobs. But in agriculture, the party seems to go backwards into the future. The aid shall be cut to an industry in the middle of a conversion, the agreement concluded with the industry shall be broken and the farms shall be increased and more efficient. Can the representative give me some examples of similar countries, with the same climate and topography, that have successfully implemented such policies in the past? And does the Progress Party at all aim to run agriculture across the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2433	The answer to that is yes, it is fully possible to have an agricultural farm across the country with 1.3 billion. kr less in support than that provided by the government. We have to remember that we have an agriculture that every year gets transfers of the order of 15 billion. kr – 20 br. kr. It is fully possible to run efficient, good agriculture with slightly less state support. We are concerned about the impact of an excessive level of support in agriculture. It is because replacing income from the market with transfers has not improved the economy of the individual farmer, but the problem is that overproduction of some products can be stimulated. We've been through that in Norway before. On the concrete question, whether there are countries that have done it before: yes, there are, and it's called New Zealand.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2439	The government comes after what we understand, soon to put forward new relief measures for business, because we know that business is bad, we know that business now has a very, very challenging situation, and not least he's gotten worse in the last few weeks. I have noticed that there has been a discussion about a need to avoid providing support, avoiding giving help, to companies if it could lead to an exchange. Then my question is: does the representative Bjørnstad share this fear that money that comes from the state in the form of aid somehow can end up in an exchange? Or, in another way: does Bjørnstad see a system in which an actually cannot take out the exchange of funds a after all gets in such a difficult situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2446	The representative says that the measures from the government are coming soon, we really get hope. It doesn't give much sympathy that we at Stortinget are impatient, but the business out there is impatient and expects to get answers to which arrangements are going to apply in the future. It seems to me that there is a desktop theory that is presented when you say that there should be restrictions or a ban on dividends. So it's from the same government that significantly increases the property tax for Norwegian owners. Norwegian owners don't have the kind of values on the book, and where are you going to get money? Well, of course, it's via dividends. I also believe the Minister of Industry has been aware that this was the case for him last year, despite the fact that his company received corona support. Of course, there has to be opportunities to do that, without having too much of a desk theory in the government quarter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2453	I listened to the representative Bjørnstad with great interest. Not surprisingly, he did not say a word about agriculture, but he ended with ‘mytji bee and little wool’. That's a good trunker expression. The social mission of agriculture is to provide the people of Norway with adequate and safe food, produced with Norwegian resources. In the vote, the Progress Party refers to its alternative budget, where the party will modernise the agricultural framework. This shall be done by replacing political regulations and restrictions with nutrition, which will result in more competitive agriculture. In other words, the Progress Party will end today’s structure with food production across the country by giving priority to large-scale farms adapted to market income opportunities. The representative, Bjørnstad, clearly believes that the market alone will provide enough income for Norwegian food producers. Does this mean that the purpose of the Progress Party is to wind up the negotiating institute?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2462	The answer to the last one is yes. We've never been followers of a separate agricultural negotiating institute. Nor do it have carpenters or plumbers or other self-employed workers, and we want to treat farmers as just self-employed. That's what they are. Then we believe that the most important thing is to strengthen the full-time farmer, instead of lubricating funds thinly beyond agriculture. We have to reward those who produce food, not those who don't produce. That is why we need to move more towards providing support per year. unit produced, instead of per. area, e.g. I am sure that our distinguished agricultural spokesperson will come back to agriculture in his speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2469	I'm sorry I left the pulpit instead, President. It shall not be repeated. The representative Bjørnstad's party and Left have much in common in business policy when it comes to the principle of the importance of private value creation and an active industrial policy, which is crucial to ensuring the well-being of Norway in the future. A central pillar of industrial policy, which has been in existence for the last eight years, is that we should have stable, careful and close cooperation in Europe on everything that concerns industrial policy, with the EEA Agreement at the bottom. I notice that the progress of this fall has had a change of pace in this area. In today's Chamber there are some suggestions from the Progress Party to go to some sort of cable war against our neighbouring countries in Europe with unilateral cuts in exports. The new Energy Policy spokesman for the Progress Party says he is very opposed to Norway cooperating with the EU on climate change in this agreement. Can the representative of Bjørnstad ensure that the position of the Progress Party in cooperation with Europe and the EEA Agreement is a pillar is established during the coming period?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2478	The answer to that is yes. The Contracting Party is in favour of the EEA Agreement. It is an agreement that connects us to a very large market, to which we had initially not had access automatically without that agreement. That's why it's incredibly important. But then it is possible to discuss electricity, electricity prices and cables for Europe, without necessarily depending on whether you are in favour of or against the EEA Agreement. I am very much in favour of the EEA Agreement. However, when there is a condition in the agreement with our European partners on electricity, which means that, for reasons of general interest, smaller exports can be made during certain periods — for example: where the flow is very expensive, which is now – I believe there is an action room Norway should be able to use. But in sum, of course, the EEA Agreement is a very important pillar for Norway and for our business.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2485	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2490	We have a lot to discuss for now. There are challenges in almost all areas of society at the moment. The starting point for SV's enterprise policy is that we have a big common problem we have to solve. We need to convert the Norwegian economy into climate and nature. During this period of growth we are now in, we have to quickly take back the lost time during the blues, the lost years, and get on the road with large, national nutrition projects that provide for the transition from a fossil and petroleum-dependent economy to a green economy. In the SV's alternative state budget, we propose bets before, among other things. floating sea winds, green maritime industries, hydrogen, battery production, bio-industry, carbon capture and storage – a series of national bet areas in which, through both direct framework conditions to lift industries and indirectly, through state ownership and instruments, we lift areas on which we have specific commitments to actually close. It's about the fact that there are industries that are promising for the nation of Norway – we have natural phenomena that make us close – but also that we have competence. We have labour that is now related to petroleum, which can be used on the new areas. It goes as a hand in gloves in this new shift we're going through. There are no small bets we're adding. Together, we propose in our alternative state budget over 60 billion. kr in green conversion bets – ripple and bit. It might sound a lot, in someone else's budget it'll be huge, but it's no bigger than it has to be. It's pretty much in relation to the challenges we're facing. After this, we have an agreement with the government party that we are happy with, and that takes important steps in that direction. Major hydrogen wagers, which were launched today, came out of the agreement and out into reality. A bionova, which is central to a bioeconomy effort, is to be established, which will be a very important field for us in the future. In the case of carbon capture and storage, there is investment in renovation, but also in projects of even greater scale. It is a climate agreement for the petroleum industry, the allocation of a floating sea wind conversion fund, green export finance facility, a separate green shipping loan scheme and green innovation and research, just to identify some of the measures we have taken together with the government party. It's starting to be a good pace of conversion. At the same time, conversion is about much more than simply switching us away from petroleum, so to speak. It's about harnessing the huge natural resources we have, in a resilient way. We have huge natural resources as a nation, perhaps among the largest natural resources in Europe, with an enormous sea, forest, land. These resources are distributed. That's why we also need to build a spread, so we're going to use these resources. There's someone who thinks that the future lies in bowing more concentrated, that the spread construction belonged to the past, some storybook. That's wrong. In the future, we need to reverse the trend of centralisation; people need to be more diversified. That's the only way we can use the huge natural resources we have in our country. It is the future, when everything that is currently non-renewable is to be replaced by renewables. Then it has to be turned. Today's competence in mountain areas, along fjords and forests is the gold in this shift. Thus, viable fishing waters, towns and districts are a means of closure. Turning development back is also at the root of our industrial policy. Our mantra for the traditional natural resource industries is to take back the sea and use the land. It is precisely a question of reversing developments with the centralisation of not only the rights of fishing, but also the concentration of quotas in agriculture, spreading it, using the soil and giving lives to different communities along the coast, which are in a way the backbone of the Norwegian coastal culture, which is currently perplexing. So it's a central assumption for us that it has to be a fair green shift. A fair green shift means that people should come out better. There will be a fairer distribution of power and wealth in the green shift. That's what we think leads to a good life in the country, but we also think it's a commitment if we're going to close. We're going to make big, collective promise, and then people have to get better out of it than before. They shall not take the full cost, as some on the right-hand side seem to believe.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2509	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2514	The representative of Knag Fylkesnes is at the heart of the negotiations with the government on behalf of SV. Business compensation schemes will gradually, hopefully as quickly as possible, reach the Stortinget. Is SV going to premise that the companies that are going to receive support cannot profit, and that they are going to base themselves on November too, as many of the companies did quite well? November is one of those months of the year they've done well. And will SV make demands for dividend regulation?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2519	The answer to the first is yes, and the answer to the second is no. First of all, we are in order to demand that one cannot be replaced. This is crisis money, and that's how we discussed it when these crisis arrangements were made in March a year and a half ago. These crisis money are there to ensure that businesses that are viable survive. They are to ensure that the addition to these companies can still have a job to go to. They are not to be used for exchange, i.e. go in private pockets. Finding a proper frame of it is very important. It can happen in many ways. This can happen through statements, as we have suggested earlier, but also through the fact that payments are made in the form of loans. Secondly, the answer is that we're skeptical about laying the foundation for November as well. Because if a set of foundations for November, and that's a sum of November and December, there's a lot of people going to fall out of that system. Whether it's a system, it has to be a real system that people can be in.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2531	What does SV think about the companies – restaurants, hotels and nightlife – now these days, ‘as we speak’, to use a good Norwegian term, now sits and assesses whether leave announcements should be sent out, and that people who work in providing hotel rooms, cooks and waiters around the country, tens of thousands, now are going to meet Christmas and not have an assurance that they have a job to go back to in January? What does SV think about the government not presenting a case to the Stortinget which can be adopted, and which gives such clear leadership that many of the companies can rely on the wage support – and thus not waste their money on permitting rather than receiving wage support?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2538	Now it's been working on blasts, and very well, the last few weeks after it became clear that there's going to be a pay support scheme. There has been effective work with the government and the social partners. Something's going to come today, but we don't know the content of it. It is clear that there is no decision in Stortinget before Christmas, but it is possible to gather about a scheme. What's my hope is that we should be able to gather about a payroll scheme before Christmas, too many people already began to send out the leavement notice early in the last week. I've been in contact with a lot of people who did. Then there are two weeks until people are on leave. So there's two weeks when one has the option of withdrawing it. So if one manages to prevent it by putting in place a system of which there is agreement, before the lay-offs expire, it will be a big goal and a great progress for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2545	Travel life is an incredibly important district industry, and the industry has experienced major challenges through the pandemic with significant income deficits. The Finnland race is a well-established brand and has developed a unique position as one of the world's most demanding and popular dog races with more than 120 participants from around 15 nations. Finnmark is a unique part of Norway, and the Finnmark race can play an even more important role in the profiling of Norway and North Norway as Arctic destinations and contribute to the creation of more jobs through the tourism industry after the pandemic. The Finnmark race has a three-year project to enable more nutrient and social development in the wake of the Finnmark cycle and to create ring-effects for the whole region. There is a high potential for profiling and nutrient development with the Finnmark race as a catalyst. Hasn't SV seen the possibilities that the Finnmark race can generate, as they have not been willing to give priority to it in budgetary negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2554	The representative Strifeldt has a great commitment to the Finnmark race, and he should have all the praise for it. There is also a strong commitment to it among both the SVs in Finnmark and the business community, who are in contact with us about it. So we have a lot of understanding for that. The Finnmark race is so unique, not only in Norwegian context, but in international contexts, and has a very exciting role as a catalyst for raising other parts of travel life. So this is a project that we're following with arctic eyes, and we're also going to follow that project in the course of doing assessments of how we can contribute to lifting it as part of a larger travel life effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2561	I want to continue where the representative of Hofstad Helleland left off, clinging to the acute crisis that very many companies in the food industry and snuffing industries throughout the country are now in. All of the businesses I've been talking to over the last few weeks are concerned that things have to go fast. In an ideal value, the arrangements that come into place should be both perfectly aligned and lightning-fast. But what seems to be happening, and I think we're all a few of them, is that it's terribly hard to do both. What's clear about me is that SV is now taking so much time to focus on one of them having to be 100 pst. ensure that no one can take advantage of these schemes, that time goes and goes before anything comes into place. Now, we have a national compensation scheme that many companies say is not helpful, including in particular. because it deals with November and December in part. The extra municipal money doesn't seem to be in place until Christmas. The wage support scheme cannot, as the representative himself says, be established before Christmas. Can SV see that sometimes it is not perfectly possible when a crisis strikes, but that it is important that the system comes quickly to save jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2568	Unfortunately, I can agree with the representative, Bjørlo, that the perfect world does not exist. Unfortunately, she will never exist, and neither has she. If we were to roll back a little bit of time to when the Left put in government, it took an infinite amount of time before a crisis package was put in place. Even in the fall, when the crisis was already under way, four months went by before we got the compensation scheme in place. I actually think I'm kind of nice, I actually think it was even longer. It took a tremendous amount of time. And these were schemes that have been criticized in good health and together, both because they were set up too badly, with these fixed unavoidable expenses, which were just some expenses, etc. etc., with excess – and all the things I have been in. What we're missing in Norway is a sort of crisis regime, and if I'm going to criticize the government for something, it was that one never left a proper crisis regime. There were some semi-discovered schemes that hung and snake, which were left, and suddenly came omicron. So what we need in the longer term -- because this isn't going to happen right away, this is going to happen over and over again -- is a bigger rig for how to deal with these kinds of crises, and pay support becomes very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2575	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2580	In these corona times, we all have to tolerate some exchange, and I'm very happy to step in for Red's nutritionist, Geir Jørgensen, today. I lack the beard, but otherwise most of it would be in place. So far, in the debate, we have heard governmental parties from the past and from the present time on each other about things that should have been sorted out by everyone. There's nothing as eloquent as government parties that have been sitting with power for eight years and haven't done what they could, and that afterwards jaws on those who come after that they don't do anything. Let me be quite clear: everyone who has had power in Norway since Korona came has responsibility. We could fill up the toolbox, because we have known – at least I understand – that it has been quite likely that new mutants and new waves of infection are coming. Then you could have filled up a toolbox of schemes that are clear when the crisis strikes. We also have experience how extremely fast it is, and how busy we get to make arrangements. The fact that the toolbox is not filled, that the wage support system did not exist one or two months ago, gives responsibility to all those who have been in government since the Korona came. Because now it's urgent. I'm really worried that the system that's coming now isn't going to help – that people are already on the perm, that beer tanks are empty, that food is thrown. What should the cafes do if they are to try to restart? I'm really worried about that. I am also concerned that the Storting will not be able to adopt the scheme before Christmas. I can say quite clearly that for Red, it is totally out of date that we big-time politicians with millions of wages go to Christmas holidays without ensuring income and security for workers in crisis. I'd rather have the Christmas cod wait. Speaking of cod: The Marine Resource Act states that the fishing resources in the sea belong to the Norwegian people in common. The fish has for thousands of years fed people along the coast on the table and money in their pockets. If we manage the fish properly, it will give us living bread along the coast and light in the houses also in the future. Unfortunately, the previous government led a policy that led to more fish quotas being collected on fewer hands, and that values that could benefit Vardø and Melbu rather go to shipowners at Aker Brygge. In order to counteract this development, the coastal fishing fleet will be given priority by Red. We will reverse the cuts in welfare and security systems implemented by the previous government, and we also propose in our budget to rebuild coastal welfare stations, which are important to many. We also proposed to increase the so-called leadership grant. The farming industry has been an industrial venture, but for the environment it has been a nightmare. Uninhibited growth has led to lice, escape and major environmental problems, while the industry today is characterised by super-profit in a few owners. If we are to have socially and ecologically sustainable farming, it must be taken into account. Red therefore proposes to increase the production fee to 80 øre per kilogram in order to distribute more of this super-profit in the industry to the community, but also to ensure that municipalities that lend their feathers will get more back. Some eat cod and some eat ribs for Christmas. Just as fish are the basis of life along the coast, agriculture is the cornerstone of many rural areas throughout the country. The previous government based its agricultural policy on fewer and larger farms. We in Red will work for an agricultural sector with more farms throughout the country, an agricultural sector based on Norwegian resources and exploiting food and grazing resources throughout the country. There's a lot that can be eaten in this country. Therefore, in its alternative budget, Red sets up funds for investments that promote long-haul farming to set up set-aside and formerly cultivated land. By 2030, as well-known Norwegian farmers, shall have moved to loosing ponds. If we're going to do that, the community must be willing to support the peasant. Therefore, Red proposes to set aside an additional 100 million. kr in investment aid for small and medium-sized applications, in order to enable them to start the conversion to unbundling. The Coronapandemic has shown us the importance of self-sufficiency and crisis preparedness when global sources of supply fail. Red therefore wants us to start the important work of rebuilding the stockpiles of cereals in Norway. In our alternative budget, we have proposed a start-up grant. We expect that we will get the red-green parts to start this important work as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2603	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2608	There is a strong consensus that the CO 2 tax is one of the main means of reducing emissions, and it all provides an incentive to choose the technology that produces the lowest possible emissions. There is also a strong consensus that the fishing fleet must be compensated for the time needed for conversion. A good example of this is found in the brook of the West. The fishing boat ‘Sunderøy’ is a locality and has used 500 million. kr to get it to. Much has been invested in developing the first hull in its class to reduce emissions, and not enough with it: One has invested in the best and most modern of Norwegian technology, where Kongsberg Maritime has supplied its latest battery drive system. These are examples of the effectiveness of the fishing fleet compensation scheme. My question then is: when Red in his alternative budget cuts of 50 million. kr to the seagoing fleet of the compensation scheme, does the representative consider that these actors are not important in our joint effort to cut emissions? Or, in another way, does the representative say that it should not cost to pollute as long as you have a small boat? And if the representative agrees that with Rødt's proposal, removing the compensation scheme for the sea-going fleet will force someone to deliver the fish, for example, in Denmark, where at the same time they will have access to bunkers, which Red cannot charge at the expense of... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2618	Martinussen.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2624	The example of the representative refers to new technology on the sea-going fleet shows, in fact, that the CO 2 fee works when you have to pay it. This is when you get the intention to invest in new technology, which is very good for the seagoing fleet to do, and which, through various environmental technology schemes, is proposing to provide more money to cover more of its investments. With regard to the compensation scheme itself, we believe that the coastal fleet has been under-prioritised in Norway for too long, and we will both move quotas to the coastal fleet and ensure that the CO 2 compensation is directed more towards the small boats, which actually pollute less and deliver more locally. But that doesn't mean that through this CO 2 compensation mechanism, we're laying down the ocean-going fleet for that reason, and I stress that the arrangements that exist to get support for these investments that cut emissions are increasing Red more than the government is doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2640	The representative Martinusus describes a farming industry that I don't know about. She describes the situation so that almost all production is collected on a few hands, and then with the address of Aker Brygge. It is short and certainly not correct. What is true, on the other hand, is that we have a lack of businesses along the coast, some large, some small, some family businesses and some limited companies more allocated to different owners. So there's a huge variety of farming industries along the whole coast. And the question is, now we've just got an increase in taxes with this government. So now, in addition to this, Red will increase the production fee up to 80 øre per kilogram. Does Martinussen think that is the right way to develop the industry, increase production and create activity along the coast?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2645	If the representative realized that I said that the farming industry was concentrated on Aker Brygge, it is unfortunately a mistake, because the largest owner of farming in Norway lives in Cyprus and is named John Fredriksen. The second largest owner is a young man, younger than me, who is still one of Norway's richest people because he owns one of the largest breeding companies in Norway. This I believe shows that there is an extremely large profit in this industry that is not taxed today. There's been a big discussion about rent and other ways to do it. What Red has proposed here is a simple and unbureaucratic change to the system that lies there, and I think it is not good for the farming industry and the small players that we have so huge profits and concentration in some owners, because it gives little confidence, even in the population. Where I come from, the breeding is peppered along the fjords, and it's not local that neither works at those plants nor makes money at those plants. What we know is that there we can't drive the boat, and there we can't fish, as my ancestors have done for a long time before me.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2654	I am a little uncertain about how to deal with the Red proposal for a change in the CO 2 compensation scheme, as it is a post-payment payment for 2022 that takes place in 2023. Both the Red Party and the Advance Party have made the same mistake in their state budget and are trying to cut into a scheme that had already been adopted a year ago, where it is paid in arrears. So it's not next year's government budget they cut in, they cut in the last state budget. So I know that you're actually looking at the fairness of the CO 2 compensation scheme, but it's now working so that if you reduce emissions, you get it compensated. Another question in that context, which is really at the beginning of the speech by the representative, about concerns about both the travel industry and the restaurant industry, is: I wonder why Red actually chooses to cut 36.5 million. kr in the measures under the Travel Life Strategy of Innovation Norway. How can Red defend it when we're going to get out of the corona pandemic and travel life really need these means?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2667	The importance of travel throughout Norway is certain. In the past, the Finnmark race was up as an example of a travel driver, and where I come from, is a good example of how the Finnmark race has actually provided local jobs. But it is not certain that the support schemes developed by a civil government for eight years are the best way to support travel life. Red has an approach angle where we are skeptical of a number of the mechanisms developed by the previous government, for example. Nysnø, in which we have also proposed moving money. This money in Invest in Norway is also something that we are proposing to move to other types of schemes, which are perhaps more driven by a district policy that is better – and I think this government might do better – than the slightly more business-driven district policy that the previous government has been pursuing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2672	I always found it fascinating to right Red talk about business and business. It's like some mistrust -- they're welfare professionals, they're driving business, which I don't think is exactly what the representative meant positively, and they're out to exploit schemes and take advantage of profit. As I know business, at least where I live and work, most business owners – if it's allowed to say it – are very common people who create values. They're busy doing good in communities around them, creating incomes, creating jobs. I want to challenge the representative from Red: can she spend a minute saying something positive about private business, private ownership and how we can facilitate the creation of more businesses in this country, without going over to something that creates suspicion and negativity around private owners who build jobs and businesses?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2677	I like to fascinate Left's big business representatives every day if it's entertaining. What I've been talking about in my post are they all, the richest in Norway. New reports from the SSB show that the richest in Norway are getting richer — and are also paying less tax per penny. But I hope the representative and the party on the left know that there are differences between people, and also differences between traders. Through the corona pandemic, red has been used to support small and medium-sized enterprises in the hotel, restaurant and travel industries. We have been asked to ensure that self-employed people – very often it is the case that they have a company where they are so few that they are actually self-employed and not a company with shares – will receive support and compensation in the same way as workers through the corona pandemic. What is the case in small businesses is that there is often almost no difference between the owner and those who work there, and you work together to create values locally. But it's not the same thing as people who own farming facilities along the whole coast, and who sit on billions of fortunes that they also choose not to treasure, by moving their place of residence. It must be allowed to say that there is a difference between people – including business owners.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2684	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2691	The President will state that, in accordance with the third paragraph of Paragraph 35 of the Rules of Procedure, the President has made an amendment to the agenda for today's sitting. The Energy and Environment Committee gave its opinion on the following issues: %d %s %d %s" is "%d %s" 14.10 Min. 102 L for 2021 to 2022, cf. Prop. 44 L for 2021-2022, and the President has set it up as a new matter on today's map. This then becomes case no. 26, while Unit changes and becomes Case No. 27. Then we move on to the list of speakers, and the next speaker is Alfred Jens Bjørlo.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2698	While we are sitting here in the budget debate in Stortinget, with safe jobs or jobs funded by the Treasury, there is just no bloody seriousness for small and large businesses and tens of thousands of workers around the country in the food industry and other industries that have been hit by a new coronation closure. The pandemic has been tough for many who work in health care, school, kindergarten and other parts of the public sector, yes. But for those who work in or run businesses in parts of the private sector, even more is at stake. It's about having a living or missing it. While the government party and their supporting party SV in the Korona crisis work over the last few weeks have been busy trying to figure out how the state can secure itself on all the bows and anticipate that anyone in the business world can exploit the system, the Left is busy saving businesses and saving jobs. It's an expression that says that the cow dies as the grass grows, and that's what's happening right now in the catering and outdoor industry. The public and the café die while the government clears and delivers poor solutions when they first arrive: a national compensation scheme that the industry itself says is bombing on targets, a pay support system that is running out of time, and a municipal compensation billion to the companies, which is becoming increasingly like Jesus – everyone has heard about him, but no one has seen him. This won't work anymore. Every hour every day is now important to ensure jobs around the country. Now, the national compensation scheme must be such as to hit the enterprises. More money for the municipal compensation scheme must come now, not once next year. And a pay-as-you-go scheme in line with the recordings from the industries that are being framed needs to be quickly and in cash in place. For a pay-as-you-go scheme, nothing is pleasant and fun, as the Centre Party's Geir Pollestad characterized it as the last week. No, this is bloody serious. It's about saving jobs, putting people before heavy-duty systems. Research, innovation and innovation in business are important to create growth in the economy, secure jobs and good life throughout the country. For the Left, good climate policy and good industrial policy are also two sides of the same coin. We're proud to have got the Green Platform up with the Left-Handled Ministry of Economic Affairs. We are also proud to have taken the initiative of Norwegian participation in InvestEU and to start building the Ocean Space Centre. And the left is disappointed and surprised that one of the first steps to the Big Government, in what they call a policy for ordinary people, was to cut 400 million. kr in the provisions for Nysnø, which will create tools to develop climate-friendly technologies for the future. At the same time as the government reverses the taxes on Norwegian-owned private companies, cuts the bet on the road and then bends down to SV’s demands on the Storting to turn the taxes up even a couple more and cut the bet on roads in the districts a little bit more. True it or not, but it is the Norwegian-owned, often locally owned companies – the ones that the Big Government and the SV may most of all view as tempting tax items that lie there and lure – that will create the jobs for the future. Yes, I want to go so far as to say that in the future there will be no less than ordinary people working in the climate-friendly businesses we create today. With the policies of the Left, the new climate companies would have been even more and even better equipped to grow and create new jobs. Finally, a warm thank you to all those out in small and big companies all over the country who have been on in the Korona era to keep the wheels going! In all companies I have visited, company owners and employees are mainly on the same team. They will do the same and will have to face both good times and bad times. What they want most is to be listened to, taken seriously, and considered as value creators, not just as tax collectors and potential users of the system. For a liberal party like the Left, private ownership and private enterprise are of course a part of a good society where people can live a free life. If we are to create a country that still has more freedom and new opportunities today, the thousands of flowering blossoms in small and large businesses across the country in a variety of industries and industries. That fight should take the left over the next four years. With the plurality that is now established on the Stortinget, with a government that is at the mercy of the Socialist Left Party from day to day for four years, the struggle is more important to the Left than ever.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2720	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2725	We were all concerned when we saw the NRK's revelations about the Food Agency in the fall. It is a fact that over several years, the Solberg government weakened the operational budgets of the Food Authority, which led to their difficult performance of their social mission and supervision. We have also seen that employees of the Food Safety Authority have stood up and told us how difficult it has been to be able to do the job in a good way because of a lack of resources. After all, the Left basically agrees with the Labour Party that we must ensure that animals are well in this country. Today's government shows that we take it seriously and have put in a reinforcement of 20 million. kr to the Food Authority, but this would not support the Left. However, they write in a note that they expect the government to follow up on the conditions that were revealed and address the challenge faced by the employees of the Food Safety Authority themselves. Should not the Left then support the increased appropriations for the Food Authority?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2734	The Labour Party and the Left agree that animal welfare must become a higher priority for years to come and that the Food Authority plays a very important role in animal welfare. The left has given priority to working with the last few years, first of all, to better organise the Food Authority, which makes it work better and can do its job better than it might have done in previous years. Much of that work is now done, and we have a well - functioning food supervision. We have also prioritised increasing resources for animal police across the country, which have been a conscious and real strengthening of another important aspect of animal welfare. I agree with the representative that for the years to come, we are forced to strengthen the Food Safety Authority both organisationally and financially, and I believe the representative can be sure that these are priorities Left will also do for the years we are now entering the new ageing period.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2741	The left is a party with a clear climate voice, I guess I'd venture to say the Greatness's brightest. I have to admit that it was perhaps one of the main reasons why the government of Solberg was the greenest government in Norway's history. Climate action was largely linked to business and job creation, which both the Right and the Left are concerned about. On the other hand, what I didn't hear so much about from the Left was how agriculture can be part of the solution, and how we can manage to cut emissions while increasing the income of the farmer. The representative Bjørlo has defined himself as a district psychologist, I think that was the word. I am not going to call the representative the ‘district psychopath’, but can the representative say something about what he thinks the role of agriculture is in the fight for lower emissions and higher value creation in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2748	Thank you for that question. That's quite right: for the last four years, the Left and Christian People's Party has been speeding up Norwegian climate policy in a way that makes me think we're both concerned about whether that pace will continue over the years, with a new government and a new multi-annual. To what the representative asks, I believe the most important thing is that we are clear about defining agriculture and all the value-creating links to agriculture as part of the new, climate-friendly business we're going to live on in the future. Farming and having strong agriculture across the country is not a climate problem; it is a great possibility, both for value creation and for creating climate-friendly, good solutions that create jobs and values across the country. We're going to do that, and we're going to cooperate with agriculture on that. I see agriculture as an industry that is on the offensive of climate and wants to achieve its own results. We're going to do it together with the industry, and they're going to be part of future climate solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2755	I want to commend the representative, Mr Bjørlo, for having been clear in the Committee's work that one wants to be in the type of purely descriptive remarks, and has not chosen to go out, as the Right has chosen. It makes the job that committee heads considerably easier. I am also very pleased with what the representative said to the previous replicant, that one should look at how to link all the value creation in agriculture to getting good climate agreements. It has just been pointed out by the Centre Party and the Labour Party, with the creation of Bionova, which has been put in place in the budget agreement. I expect the Left Heirs to do it, even if they couldn't put it in place with the Right. But what I'm really asking is, in that context, when we talk about climate, animal husbandry in Norway will continue to play an important role. How does the representative actually experience the fact that even the Progress Party spends more money on animal welfare, by strengthening the Food Authority than the one proposed by the Left in this setting?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2764	The left is pleased that we now have a common, strong climate policy in Norway, that it also covers agriculture and has clear and good means of action against agriculture. And I believe that a now also gets Binova up as part of the toolbox that's going to be there. I think that's good. So I think that we, all parties, now have to be clear about agricultural expectations about climate change, while at the same time putting up with the tools that are in place. When it comes to the Food Authority, the Left has been helping to build a stronger body of organisation of both the Food Authority and a new animal police force, which has strengthened and increased efforts to gather views on animal welfare for years to come. We have now presented a Document 8 on animal welfare in the Committee, where one of the points is that we are forced to strengthen food supervision for years to come. And as I said to the previous replicator, we're going to be on for years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2773	The article said that animal welfare must become a higher priority. This was also said in the exchange of lines with both the first replicator and with the representative Nordlund no. But the reality is that the left is adding up to $29 million. kr less on the Food Authority next year than the government party and SV have been a few. Twenty-nine million. kr is significant with funds. That means less supervision, that means poorer supervision, that means a more demanding everyday routine for the Food Authority. When one says that there is a need to strengthen the Food Safety Authority in the years that are coming, I wonder: the representative who sees it is a good start to cut 20 million. Do you really want to delete this item? Or would it be more reasonable to do as the Center Party, the Workers' Party and SV did, and strengthened the Food Authority?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2780	I want to repeat what I said instead: the left has been an active driver for a collective strengthening of animal welfare in the last few years, among other things. with the creation and continuous development of an animal police force, with fresh promises, which is a strength, and a concerted strengthening of the Food Authority. Now, the extra promise that the representative Pollestad is talking about is part of a collection of budgetary health, where the gathering of the priorities of the new government is something that the Left cannot stand for. This and other reinforcements made by the new government include: funded by increasing taxes on small and medium-sized family-owned enterprises across the country, by cutting the barriers to cross-border trade and other measures that we oppose. We can't stand for that whole thing. It is also about the pooling of money. We see that the government in the agreement the representative was aiming for, was unable to solve major challenges like, for example, the high power bills of people, on whom they now come with their own haste in the last few, financed in extraordinary ways. This is about the collective way this isn't well enough solved, as the Left sees it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2789	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2794	I use the opportunity – a little boldly – to congratulate the previous speaker on his birthday! Germany has been given a new government made up of social democrats, the Greens and a bourgeois liberal party. The title of the German Government’s declaration is: ‘Wake more progress’. In fact, risking more progress is beneficial to the German Government. By 2030 Germany shall phase out coal. They shall have at least 80 pst. renewable power supply. They need to expand 30 GW sea winds. They shall install 10 GW capacity in green hydrogen production and make Germany the world's leading electric bilnation, to mention something. Germany's new government with Social-Democrat Scholz in the head and the Greens as friendly partner and foothold is watching progress. The government we now have is almost daring. Everyone understands that Norway is going through a gigantic transformation. The big problem is that the cash flows don't go where they are needed to create this conversion. Last year, almost seven times more investment is made in oil and gas than in all other industries combined — all other industries. The main Norwegian industrial policy project during this ageing period must be just about doing something about it. We have to start moving investment away from oil and into the new industries. In the Hurdal Platform and the government’s budget proposal, there is a long way between the highlights of environmental stakeholders. The platform and the draft budget are a continuation of what I will choose to call a reactionary oil policy. With the platform, it is the Stortinget and not the government that have to take the lead in climate and change policy in Norway. The Greens are ready to contribute to this. We want to cooperate with all parties that take the climate and the natural crisis seriously. The green conversion costs money. A report by Norske Veritas and Norsk Industrie shows that adopted policies will cut emissions by 24 pst. by 2030. The target is known as 55 pst. If we are to achieve that goal, we need a strong increase in investment in research, technology development and new green industries. The Environment Party, I had almost said the Business Party of the Greens, proposes a series of radical steps in our alternative state budget that will speed up the transition in Norway. The most important thing is that we introduce a conversion fee in line with the climate change committee proposed. We're using the tax to speed up new business. In that way, we actually take the prime minister's word when he says he'll build green industries on the shoulders of the existing ones. The government is doing the opposite, e.g. by pushing through tax packages to the oil industry that are more favourable than the oil industry itself is asking for and hoping to get something green at the other end. The 24 billion. NOK we accept through the conversion fee, we use among other things. to this end: a ship wreckage arrangement, which will provide incentives for the construction of more environmentally friendly ships and create jobs in Norwegian shipyards. We are strengthening the Nysnø, Investinor and environmental technology system to speed up green investment. We are setting up an investment scheme for closed farms, and we are strengthening the sea wind effort strongly. So let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see 1 billion. kr to Bionova, which with our model is to finance climate action in agriculture and support the scaling up and commercialisation of promising technologies in the With this, I will address the Greens' proposals to the Greens.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2818	The representative Arne Olav Haabeth has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2825	If we are to achieve the climate objectives of Stortinget, we are dependent on the success of an active industrial policy in the north. The county I come from, Northland, can be an engine in the green shift, with investments in battery and hydrogen production. To the Green Party representative, who says that the Greens are the Business Party, and that they are calling for those interested in the environment, I would ask: when Northland and North Norway are at the centre of the Greens, can the Greens representative explain why Oslo has been mentioned 52 times in their alternative budget and Nordland only 4 times? Is this not a confirmation that the Greens are an urban metropolitan party and not a party for the whole country?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2832	Thank you very much for your question. I think that was a very good question. I'm originally a Westerner, I'm not really an oslogutian, so I'm going to take the opportunity to apologize that there's so much pressure on Oslo in the alternative budget. I totally agree with you. There's no reason for it to be like this. I think that's a way of writing a budget. We have good experiences from Oslo, good experiences from cooperation, and we've had a terrible amount in Oslo, so there can be a lot of the explanation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2839	The President would like to remind you that the speech has to go through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2844	I think it was interesting to hear the representative talk about Germany initially, because there Die Grünen has had a very good cooperation with the citizens. The Greens have long argued that they are a block-independent party. The representative was so far inside and tried it again today, but we got it cancelled quite dubiously when they chose the page before the election campaign this year. So they removed the greenest government of the time for the benefit of a Central Party – Labour Party government. Then came the Hurdal platform, the grey, solid Hurdal platform, and a subsequent colourless additional proposition. SV has made some changes to it, but it is now obvious that the new government is proposing to cut less emissions than the previous one. Is the representative disappointed in the Central Party-Work Party government, or was the representative aware that this was going to happen when they chose the side?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2853	I can actually answer that very briefly and directly: yes, we are disappointed with that platform. The drawer is a strong word, but we should have wanted another government. As in the example I took in the post, we think that a green party in a government makes any government better. Our first wish was a new government, and in the situation we were in, we wanted a government with us and the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2858	The Green Party aims to increase Norway's self-sufficiency of food based on own resources to 60 pst. by 2030. It's a nice target. The party believes that we should increase the production of e.g. fruit, berries, vegetables and pulses. The Green Party says in its next amendment that they should make agriculture fossil-free by 2030, for example. by subsidising zero-emission tractors, which can therefore consume more electricity. The representative Hansson of the Greens recently applauded more expensive power and referred to himself as a power moralist. I wonder then: Is the representative Haabeth in agreement with Hansson, and how my Haabeth believes that the Green Party's possible desire for a smoother flow of electricity and a reduction in electricity consumption should simultaneously go along with the goal of increasing the national self-sufficiency rate of agricultural products, including the product to which very high-power greenhouses need to grow?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2865	It was a relatively dense and complicated question for an urgent commodity. I'll try to be poor. We're not for the current price levels we see today, and the solution to the current price levels we see today, we think is a flat distribution of the state's profits to everyone. Thus, I believe that the intention behind the question is really a little difficult to answer, because we do not want the current price level that is today. When we have the current price levels we have today, we want to divide that profit back to people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2872	I thank you for your answer. What might be my main point in this is that the Greens are in favour of increasing the self-sufficiency rate of agricultural products, and they are particularly pointing to it with fruit and greens, and not least to the product that it would be very demanding to produce. My question is, in fact, how to achieve this with more expensive power and to bring down the power consumption at the same time as one goes in to increase the production of something that is very important to us, namely food, but which is very power-intensive to grow.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2877	Yes, the Centre Party and the Environment Party The Greens share the desire for a strongly increased level of self-sufficiency. Agriculture is not my strongest field, but it is not all the production we can turn into in agriculture in Norway that will require formidable amounts of new electricity. One way to change the level of self-sufficiency in Norway is at least to stop importing feed. We can grow a lot of that feed without necessarily increasing the power consumption so much that we have to discuss it the way we do now. But just let it be said, we're not for the current price levels we see today. If that happens again, we're going to make the exact same proposal, that the state's profits are to be distributed to the people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2885	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2890	Unfortunately, for the past few weeks, we have had to reintroduce strict measures to protect our health services and our population by delaying the further spread of the corona virus. We have always said that when we introduce measures to prevent infection, we must also provide economic services to business, especially those companies that are particularly affected by the measures. I come from business myself. I know how important it is to keep people in work, and how important the workers are. They're like a family at work, and I understand very, very well the frustration of many small, medium-sized and large companies now feel, and not least very many people in Norway who wonder if they're getting a permit notice, whether they're getting a permit, and what happens in the next few weeks. We have stressed many times this week that the government is going to do what we can to help secure jobs and ensure that businesses get the best through this period as well. That is why this week we have put forward strong economic measures to help keep the wheels going. We have reintroduced the financial compensation scheme that is national. We put in place a system for lost stocks, as the measures for the protection of infectious diseases are in the middle of the season for the restaurant and outdoor industries. This means that the enterprises that are now directly affected by the disease protection measures can cover the entire loss of products that expire and must be disposed of. We have notified that we are strengthening the municipal compensation scheme by 1 billion. kr, and we are prepared to do more if necessary. We have put in place a State loan guarantee scheme. We put in place arrangements for public events that have to be closed, and I have said that we will look at how we can also integrate the event industry into our arrangements. We are continuing the arrangements for the unemployed, the outlawed and the freelancers. We're continuing the deferred tax system, and we're doing a number of other financial measures. We have also said that later today we are presenting the outline of a pay support scheme, together with the parties, which can help keep people in work and prevent as much as possible from getting out of work. There are measures that will require budgetary decisions in Stortinget, and the government will therefore quickly make its own proposal in January. But let it be clear: the wage support system is coming, we have already notified it for a week, but I am asking for an understanding that it will take some time to sit down with the parties and create a completely new system that does not already exist. In the future, this government will help create new jobs across the country, increase green investment, strengthen mainland exports by 50 pst. By 2030, and we're going to cut greenhouse gas emissions with both hands. Yes, we intend to meet the climate commitments. We are entering a time that requires a more active, focused, visionary and active industrial policy. It is an industrial policy that combines emission reductions with new jobs, which contribute to economic development across the whole country. A diverse, innovative and knowledge-intensive business can contribute to more, better and more profitable jobs and greater value creation across Norway. People should be able to live and live where they want, and there should be jobs for them. In the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries, we propose several redeployments which contribute to a strong commitment to the green shift. Based on experience figures and EU estimates, it is also estimated that the redisposals we are making can contribute to mobilising 3 billion in total. kr in capital for the green shift in Norway next year, and the efforts have been further strengthened in the budgetary agreement with SV. These include: a new green growth loan scheme contributing to this, and increased participation in the EU Investment Programme InvestEU. The government is busy getting as much money as possible back for the money we spend, and we're going to use the funds in a way that contributes to the most green conversion for the resources we have. Then we will also facilitate the positioning of Norwegian industry within export markets and help companies to better seize the opportunities created by the EU green grant through a 10 million grant. kr to finance new export advances. Many enterprises are struggling to identify the diversity of state instruments. That is why we have started a great deal of work on reviewing the instrument, with the aim of giving companies one door in. The previous government would make significant cuts in Innovation Norway. It has changed this government by reducing the planned cut by 50 million. kr, because we need a stronger active toolbox to achieve these goals. Compared to the Solberg government, we also strengthen the funding for industrial research and innovation over our budget by nearly 150 million. kr. This is an active industrial policy in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2941	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2946	Our business is left in the kneeling sadly. State councils have probably brought with them the impatience of the Storting to resolve those parts of the business that are now losing violent revenues. There's been a theme here today. It'll take too long. The right has been clear that we are disappointed that the Council of State did not want dialogue with the opposition on this when we invited to conversations at the beginning of December. At the top of it came the increased taxes that the government in this budget – which is what we are really discussing today – imposes on many parts of the same business. The government has chosen to cooperate with SV, and SV requires a dividend limit, so there are many things at once. Does the Council of State believe that the dividend limit is correct, and how does he intend to introduce this when, in reality, dividends can only be pushed on and taken out the following year?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2951	We have said that with regard to the national compensation scheme, we add up to both a dividend limit and a profit limit. It is simply because we want that scheme to be as effective as possible, and taxpayers' money to help preserve jobs and secure businesses, not to give extra profits to the owners. We're going to get back to how it's going to be done. With regard to the pace of the wage support scheme, I can guarantee the representative that we have worked day and night, together with the parties, to get this in place. I think we should be a little careful about driving too much polemics in a serious situation, but I still want to remind you that it took two months from the pandemic to the last government's main package of measures was in place. We deliver a whole new wage support scheme in a few days. It's not that we need to secure ourselves in bows and edges, as another representative said, but that we need to create a system that makes the first attempt. We have an ambition to do that and present it during the day.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2958	With respect to reporting, the situation was quite different. At that time, “pandemy” was a word we almost didn’t know. The situation was quite different. Now we've been in a pandemic for almost two years, and although the government always likes to stress that it's new, put the same parties in the Storing, and they knew about the situation. That's why we're critical that things take so long. The parties made their recordings at the end of November, so there's a reason we invited to conversations at the beginning of December. But back to this with a dividend limit, because I don't feel that I got a complete answer. It's okay to say that we're now in an extraordinary situation, and that's why you don't want dividends, you want to limit dividends. But how is the Council of State supposed to prevent you from just taking it out the year after, or the year after?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2965	As I said to the representative, we're going to get back to the details of that arrangement. There are certainly practical, feasible ways to do it. It has not been the most important thing for us now to find out the details exactly in that part of the arrangement, in one of the very many financial arrangements we're making. I am sure the representative understands that we have worked very intensively to set up a pay support system with the parties, which is now one of the tools we do not have in the toolbox. We have put in place a whole series of other support schemes in a very short time. The anti-infectious measures were decided on Monday and communicated out. On Tuesday, we started the first financial measures, and we have also strengthened them through the week, no later than today, with new information on the municipal compensation scheme. The representative can be sure that the government is working, and we understand that this is a very, very difficult time for businesses and employees all over the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2972	Governments have made a point of visiting 100 companies before Christmas, but it doesn't help to visit 100 companies if you don't listen to the same companies. The economy is in crisis, and the government, with the Minister of Industry at the head, washes its hands – day after day, hour after hour without anything happening. According to Western and other government representatives, it is among other things. because it takes time to talk to businesses and the social partners. One of the things we know about a future compensation scheme is that you want to see November and December together. The companies we're talking to, the parties we're talking to, tell us that this will lead to the companies that are hardest hit now, not getting support because it went very well in November, but it's going very badly in December. What kind of enterprises or social partners are the Vestre's advice when he is setting up the scheme like that?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2977	I can assure the representative that the 120 companies I've met in the last few weeks are being listened to, and we've got a lot of good insights into how we can put the active business policy into practice. I listen to businesses every day, and I'm in dialogue with the parties every day. We are concerned that the arrangements we put in place should be as broad as possible. That's why I've been clear all week that we're willing to look at our arrangements. We are willing to improve and adjust our arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2982	In the case of the national compensation scheme, it follows the logic of the previous scheme by applying for two months at a time. The previous scheme was closed in October, and therefore November and December are the following months, as everyone knows. I have also noticed that there are some shared views about this. Some people support it, others are critical of it, and I can assure you that we will take those recordings further when we are going to strengthen and further develop these arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2987	The problem is that the government says that when infectious diseases measures are launched, they must be accompanied by financial compensation schemes, but then we do not know which financial compensation schemes should be used. The size has not been submitted to any case of financial compensation schemes, but we know what measures have been taken to protect the disease, and we know how hard it is to punish and hit in particular the tourism industry, the restaurant and food industries and the outdoors. We know that they're very hard hit, and we don't know what arrangements are going to apply to those companies. No one has asked for a compensation scheme for November, as far as I have understood, because then no one was shut down, no anti-infection measures were put in place by the government. I ask again, who has asked the Minister of Industry to put in place a compensation scheme for November, when no one was shut down?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e2993	I'd like to try to repeat my answer. There are different opinions about that arrangement. The most important thing is that it is clearly communicated that it comes and that it will have effect. We've put ourselves at a very high grant limit, and there's only one of the very many financial arrangements in place. I think I will repeat my message from now on: this is a serious time for Norway, for the companies that are particularly affected by the measures, and for many workers who are now experiencing uncertainty. That is why I ask for some propriety and audacity in the debate. When an otherwise informed representative says that there is no idea of which arrangements are in place, after the government has communicated during the whole week what arrangements have been put in place, it does not help predictability that companies know that we are preparing for business. I repeat that businesses can be absolutely sure that we are both listening, we are there for them, and we are going to contribute with financial measures as long as the disease prevention measures warrant.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3000	Already on 29 November, Stortinget cancelled his Christmas wish. It was the day when Prime Minister Støre stood here on the pulpit and said that the pandemic was unfortunately back. The other opposition parties who themselves have been in power do not get sympathy from me when they ask for arrangements they themselves could make, but unfortunately it is today's government and you who are now responsible for this. I believe that it is too late to come up with a pay support scheme when the situation on 29 November was such that we had to expect the outing industry to be cancelled, when the Presidentship of Storting also cancelled. You're talking about this as a new arrangement. Then I wonder, is it significantly different from the scheme that was last autumn? The second is: is it that wage support will be combined with other support, or is it only wage support, and otherwise one has to qualify for compensation if one is to be covered, for example. the beer tanks you have emptied, or the food you have thrown? Then it's a little worrying that the compensation scheme seems not to hit as many companies as it might be.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3009	The president reminds us that "you" is not a form of charge we use in the staging room. Please, Councillor of the West.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3014	Thank you for the questions from the representative. I think we're going to sit with the parties and finish this arrangement, and then of course we're going to get back to the Storting – and first of all, in connection with the few communicate also to the companies and to the workers what's going on. We're working on that. Then I'm going to guarantee that we've listened carefully to companies all over Norway working on this scheme – and not least worked very closely and closely with the parties, for which this is also complicated – because we're going to create a system to make the right decision. It shall be effective and shall contribute to the least possible permitting. I don't think it's possible to imagine a situation where we don't now get any cancellation notices or any cancellations. That is why we also have the commissioning agency, which we fence about, which is an important social system, but the pay support system should also help to maximise the number of jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3023	In any case, the Minister of Economic Affairs should be in favour of holding many press conferences in which he announces strong measures, so the expectations go up and down. However, it is difficult to get hold of this, and I will go straight to the case and be concrete, for every hour and day counting now. In the case of the national compensation scheme, it is not right that there should be shared views on whether it is a good idea that November should be part of the basis. The Council of State cannot be blamed on the previous government because one has chosen to create a scheme that does not match. If the Council of State sees it as a collection of recordings from all the companies and organizations I've been talking about, that there should be a two-month period, it must be December and January, for crisis not until December 1. Second, state councils have repeatedly warned that there will be a municipal compensation scheme in the billions class. The Minister of Economic Affairs said last week that the municipal compensation scheme now has 1.2 billion. kr ready to be paid out to companies that need it throughout the country. Where's this extra billion? I've got a search and a search. I can't find it, the municipalities can't find it, the companies don't have it. [[The President clubs.]] Where's the billion that's ready?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3032	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3037	Thanks to the representative for the questions. With regard to the national compensation scheme, I think I've answered that question. We're going to include recordings. We've put forward a system we think is good, and then we'll see how it can be strengthened and improved. I must also stress that our hope is that the infectious diseases measures have the effect, that we see the effect on hospitalisations, that we get more knowledge about the new virus variant, and that it is possible to start resolving again. Infectious measures are valid for four weeks, it is said. In the case of the municipal compensation scheme, it is now initially 208 million. kr to be distributed to 47 municipalities where there is a high proportion of people in the food industry. They are particularly affected by measures that go beyond, for example: Christmas table. Then we've said we're ready for 1 billion. kr to where necessary. Municipalities shall allocate this as soon as practicable to the enterprises in their municipalities which need these funds most in order to secure jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3046	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3051	Today we are discussing budgets, and I must point out that this budget shows action and willingness to invest in Norwegian agriculture. It's a pleasure to a Minister of Agriculture, and it's a pleasure to a nobleman. A new course for Norwegian agricultural policy is my work instructions in the job I am assigned to do. There's no quick fix, I'm quite honest with you. This is not a responsibility I take lightly. It's a responsibility I know there's huge expectations around, and it's with great humility I've now been in this role for eight weeks. I know that a lot of this government is expected, and I know that a lot of me is expected. The seriousness and economic insecurity of the industry have felt for many years now is serious. It is my most important job to contribute to creating the economic security of this industry, but I have to say that there is a lot to clean up after the previous blue-blue government. Once again, I would like to remind you that this government has delivered more to Norwegian agriculture in eight weeks than the last blue-blue government did in eight years. In eight weeks we've delivered 754 million. kr for additional negotiations on agricultural extra costs. We've delivered 200 million. kr extra to investment funds, 30 million. kr to Bionova, which will contribute to agricultural resources to finance climate-friendly solutions, 20 million. SEK for active forestry investment, 40 million. kr to strengthen the Food Safety Authority and that we have now said that we want to lower the agricultural deduction. In addition to this, we will present an obliging escalation plan to close the income gap between farmers and other groups. There is more resources in this additional proposition than the previous government has ever provided in an ordinary agricultural settlement. I also need to spend time talking a little bit about the greenhouse industry. Green production is important in order to increase the level of self-sufficiency to 50 p.p., which this government has as its objective. There is no doubt that we have a great potential for producing more fruit and vegetables in Norway, and this government will facilitate it. So I know there have been major concerns about increased power prices in the industry. I have had a close dialogue with the Farmers' and Small Farmers' Team and the party groups at Stortinget for the last time to find a solution. I am therefore pleased that today we are able to present an application-based compensation scheme for electricity to greenhouses, and therefore we have today ensured agriculture by also compensating some of their electricity costs in the package that was launched earlier today. The government has decided that there will be a solution to ensure that the many thousands of dwellings on Norwegian farms are included in that scheme. This will apply regardless of whether the subscription is registered to a person or to an organisation number. It is a very important and appropriate measure for Norwegian agriculture. I know that it is not enough to say that this is going to reverse the course of Norwegian agricultural policy, but I want to say that it is the beginning of the job that this government has said we should do. There are clear priorities from this government that we prioritise agriculture high in the state budget. In the budgetary agreement, the Government Parties and the Swedish Government also agree that the government must present a binding and timely plan to close the income gap between farmers and other groups in society. Agriculture is also an important part of the solution for achieving Norway’s climate commitments. The climate agreement between the country and the organisations shall form the basis for the climate work we and agriculture are going to do. So in the budget agreement, we're just prioritizing 30 million. kr to establish Bionova already in 2022. The previous government introduced a climate agreement without a single means of climate change for agriculture. This government delivers from day one. The forest is also an important part of the climate solution. The government therefore wants to facilitate the planting and harvesting of more forest that can help to bond carbon, as well as to invest in a new industry to facilitate building more in wood. Forest policy must be based on the good functioning of different stages of the value chain in the future. The previous government showed no willingness to prioritize Norwegian agriculture. We intend to change the price of Norwegian agriculture. That is why I am proud of the budget that this government has presented to Norwegian agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3074	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3079	We were back in the campaign, obviously – again, for the second time today. The Council of State posts really say very briefly that everything was totally terrible under the last government, and now, after eight weeks, everything is perfect. I understand that humility is at least not what the government intends to add up to in this period. The Council of State forgot to talk about anything but subsidies for the agricultural sector, and I think that is interesting and really quite indicative of the Centre Party. She's not talking about market incomes, and she's not talking about how to increase the farmer's income over transfers. To the question, which concerns something quite different: In 2016, there was an exemption from price control for pure forest properties. It was a wish from a total forest industry to increase the turnover of forest properties. What does the government want to achieve by reintroducing price controls on forest properties, and in what form do they want to put it in?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3089	Thank you for the question from the representative. I notice that the representative is very concerned about the market. At the same time, I have noticed that the representative in a number of reading posts has recently said that the market is not going to contribute anything to increase the income of the farmer. This government is concerned that the income of the farmer comes from import protection. It comes from the market. Two thirds of the farmer's income is just coming from the market. Then it is also in place to challenge the value chains to take their share of the responsibility to help the farmer have a income to live off. In addition, the country contributes to the agricultural agreement. In the case of forest property, this government has said that it is a matter we will come back to and deliver on in government. At the same time, I believe that we should not sell out all the state's forest properties in the future, and that is also the government's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3100	I have to admit that I'm a little out of control by state councils that don't relate to the truth. I think it would have been nice if the Council of State could do it first and not claim that I have said things I have not said, because it does not add up to a special age-old debate. I did not get an answer to my question either. After all, this is something the government has been aware that they want to introduce, so what does the government want to achieve by introducing a price control? The Council of State would like to come back to how and when and all that, but what does the government want to achieve with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3107	Thank you for the question. As I was inside the representative, this is something the government will come back to. At the same time, it's an important point in the Hurdals platform that we don't want to sell out important state forest properties for cheap money. It is also important to welcome that we take care of the landowners in the future. So this is a matter I have mentioned on several occasions that this government will come back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3114	When the Senterpartie had the Minister of Agriculture, from 2005 to 2013, it was closed down about 1,200 farms every year. In comparison, 733 farms were closed annually when the Progress Party had the Minister of Agriculture. There was a reduction in the number of farms when the Progress Party had the Minister of Agriculture than when the Senter Party last had the post, contrary to the impression the Centre Party has tried to give. In the Hurdal Platform, the government indicates that it will present a plan to close the income gap between agriculture and other social groups. It can be seen that the farmer increased his income considerably with the Advance Party in government, and average income per year. The annual work went up by 9 pst. from 2019 to 2020. Sealing the income gap between agriculture and other social groups can be done in several ways. It is possible to increase production and value-added or to increase subsidies under the agricultural agreement. How will the government close the income gap, and how much increase in income can farmers expect in the coming years?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3123	I think maybe the representative should go out to the country, meet Norwegian farmers and ask if they have felt an economic security in the last eight years, when the Progress Party was in charge of the country. I would recommend the representative to go out and ask the industry about that. My most important job is to contribute to economic security in an industry that has been lowered by the previous government for eight years. We have said that we should present an obligatory plan to close the income gap between farmers and other groups. The Gryten selection is now down. It shall provide a good numerical basis and it shall be delivered before 1 July. I want to wait for that number base before I say anything about how the way forward is going to be. At the same time, I would like to make it clear that this work does not prevent us from delivering a good agricultural settlement already for spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3130	I guess I had just one question, but I can follow it up a little bit. Does today’s Council of State feel that the Progress Party did not follow up when it was unable to keep the pace of closure that the Center Party had during its period? There is no willingness to take care of Norwegian agriculture, said the Council of State in its speech. You can see that we've had a good deal of use, which has evolved, and we've given nutrition to the farmers who want it. It has not been said that everyone should increase milk production to 900 tonnes. Now this is reduced to 500 tons. This means that those who have invested or will invest in a milk robot with a capacity of 600 tonnes will not be able to use the capacity of their production equipment. Is it to prioritize the farmers – to add a quota cap that is lower than the capacity of the production equipment?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3137	I have to correct a number of factual errors that the representative here came along with. This government hasn't said 500 tons. We've said that we're going to look at the possibility of going down that number, but it's not going to go down on those who have invested for more. When the Progress Party is so high and dark in this debate, I would like to say that I have read the alternative budget of the Progress Party, which will cut 1.5 billion. NOK to Norwegian agriculture. You're going to cut 1.3 billion. kr for the agricultural negotiations already until next year. This would be dramatic for Norwegian agriculture. I think Norwegian farmers should be very happy that the Progress Party will not be allowed to run the Ministry of Agriculture and Food in the next few years. The representative of Bjørnstad acknowledged here that the Progress Party will also call for the setting up of the negotiating institute in Norwegian agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3144	I'd like to take up the thread where the Westgaard-Halle representative let go when it came to the government's forestry policy. The council itself was involved in this because one now will stop the sale of forest property from Statskog. State forests have sold quite significant forest land over the last few years, but what is interesting is that the buyers of them are, in addition to municipalities, mainly local land and forest users in the communities where the forest properties are located. This has simply been a way of giving more local ownership and strengthening the nutrient base of local forest owners – less central governance and more local ownership. It's a principle I have to admit that I believed the Center Party was positive. In this area, the Central Party distinguishes itself from another party on the left that one has now chosen to cooperate with. Does the Council of State really think it's a good idea to stop increasing local ownership of forest property?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3151	This government is very busy betting on forests, both on the forest as part of the climate solution, and on the forest as a new industrial venture. The Hurdal platform says we should stop the sale of Statskog's properties, but if you read on, it also says that we should use Statskog as a tool for industrial construction and industrial development where Statskog has properties. So I would like to say that we are discussing the budget today, but I would rather we discussed the new industrial adventure that the forest is going to contribute to, for which this government has clear ambitions, and for which this government actually sets of millions to start. We're going to use the forest as part of the climate solution, but we're also going to use the forest to really bet on a new industrial venture. I have also said that all municipalities and county councils in Norway should have an ambition to have a signal building in three.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3160	Thank you for that. I can tell you that the left-hand-steered city has, unlike most of our Central Party-steered neighbouring municipalities. But we're gonna have to lay it down. I can't, however, fully handle the reasoning. I agree and think it is good that one has high ambitions about increased value creation and industrial construction associated with forests and wood, but I cannot understand why it is possible to stop the possibility of more local ownership of forest resources and to enable local forest users and local communities to have an increased basis for building these bets from below, should be so important that this should be a mere principle no to the government's side. Would it not be the opposite of having more forest property transferred to local ownership across the country, could it be a way to meet the high ambitions of getting more value-creating associated with the forest, rather than the state to sit and centralize and centralize as much as today?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3167	Fortunately, we have a lot of local forest owners today, a lot of good forest owners out there, who want ways to bet on the forest in an industrial perspective. That's exactly what this government is doing. Then, of course, we're going to have a balance between private actors, but we're also going to have to embrace Statskog's tasks, and not least use Statskog as a tool for the industrial building this government has announced. As a forest minister, I would also like to say that my first visit as a state councillor went to the forest industry, where I got to drive the cutting machine. There's a lot of exciting and a lot of will in the industry now to really bet. This government has said that we want to put the tools on the table for that, and we deliver that in this budget from day one. Where the Left has been sitting and running for eight years and has not been able to deliver anything for Norwegian forest industry, this government delivers from day one.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3175	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3180	One of the most proud things in our history is that we are a fishing and shipping nation. From the ocean we produce enormous values, and that's our largest and most important food barrel. The government has a clear ambition that we should facilitate the creation of more from the sea in the future, more climate-friendly food to feed an increasing world population, and more energy. Not least, we are in the process of a shift to cut emissions also in the marine industries. The budgetary density between the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV helps to facilitate the continued increase in activity, value creation and more secure all-year work across the coast. One of the stakes is the leadership grant. The government will have a varied and sustainable fishing fleet to ensure safe all-year work and settlement in coastal communities from north to south. Where the right-hand government cut off the scheme, we're strengthening it through the first supplementary proposition, so through the budget unit with SV, so it's now at 16.8 million. kr. It'll mean a lot to many along our long coast. The government places considerable emphasis on marine research through the Marine Research Institute, Nofima and the Research Council. In total, appropriations amount to approx. 2.3 billion. kr. Plus 10 is going to be 10 million. kr for administrative marine research, where the government will give priority to the launch of gains nationally and internationally in areas of particular importance to our country by the Marine Research Year, 2021–2030. Coastal monitoring is a key issue for Norway. Coastwatch is proposed continued in 2022, and BarentsWatch is strengthened by 10 million. kr. GoNorth, strengthened by as many millions, will also contribute to strengthening Norway’s role and reputation as a leading polarisation and port. Security policy is also important for Norway to highlight its presence in the Arctic and to develop its own knowledge and data on geology, oceanography and climate change, and not make us a passenger in what is happening in our new areas. The Norwegian maritime industry is the leader in climate-friendly and environmentally friendly technology, and green shipping is an important field of government maritime policy. The initiative is important for Norwegian value creation, for employment and for exports. The EU's green growth initiative through, inter alia: ‘Green Deal’ and ‘Fit for 55’ are clear indications that shipping has to be made greener. The development and implementation of low and zero emission solutions in shipping can play a key role in a more sustainable maritime industry. Consequently, the Lending Scheme for ships engaged in short sea shipping and fishing continues and proposes a earmarked loan framework of 500 million in the budget unit. kr under Innovation Norway in 2022 and the continuation of the Condemnation Scheme in 2022. That's good. The government has great ambitions to accelerate the pace of ship conversion, and the budgetary unit ensures a good start. The Government will help maintain Norwegian maritime competence and recruitment of Norwegian seafarers. Therefore, one of the biggest changes from the right-wing government’s proposal is to strengthen the subsidy scheme for seafarers’ employment. The Solberg Government proposed a maximum of DKK 189 000 for six of the grant models of the scheme, and it would liquidate the grant model for NIS cargo ships engaged on international voyages. The government proposes to continue and raise the ceiling from NOK 189 000 to NOK 220000 per person employed in the other schemes. This will increase the allocation by 227 million. kr. The Hurdal platform warns that we want to strengthen the net pay system. This is a first step to meet that ambition. If we are to ensure Norwegian maritime competence for the future, we must also ensure Norwegian wage and working conditions in Norwegian waters and on Norwegian soil. The last government failed in eight years, I spent eight days getting hold of it, and we spent eight weeks starting the law work. There will be a rapid process in which a legislative proposal can be sent to the hearing for Easter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3201	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3206	The Council of State is aware that both the Solberg Government, the Big Government and budgetary cooperation with SV have introduced a change in practice associated with the asset taxation of breeding concessions granted before January 1998. The Council of State should also be aware that this has given rise to challenges for industry. But what has happened after the Solberg government made its proposal is that the wealth tax has been increased, in fact double, both by the percentage having risen, one has reduced the share capital, and also the dividend tax has increased. We know that a paying property tax must often take money out of business. The question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State think it is a good idea to double the taxes on wealth for an industry that was not used to paying taxes on wealth on precisely these concessions?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3213	The Labour Party opted for a fairer tax system. After eight years where the taxes of some of the richest, while the bill has been sent to ordinary workers, and those sitting at the bottom of the table, have got a long, long list of unsocial cuts, it was time for a new course. Most billions cut in taxes are given as tax cuts to some of the richest, not least on wealth taxes. The Solberg Government chose to abolish the practice that has taken place, with concessions granted before 1998 and after being treated differently. The Big Government has chosen to continue. I think it is absolutely fundamental to the legitimacy of all those who are reaping the resources of the community, who are allowed to make money in general, that they contribute to the community. The investment tax is on average not at a higher level today than it was a few years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3220	A new theme: I stood here a few weeks ago and asked for the so-called Gamvik scheme, the scheme that one has had in Gamvik Municipality, where one has given young 16-17-year-olds the opportunity to fish. This was a scheme that the Solberg government would continue, but the Big Government said no, among other things. because it was not distributed enough. I now register that the scheme has come back after conversations with SV. The question is: does an actual person in these calls with SV rock to resolve the question?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3225	This Council of States has great respect for the Storting. Through negotiations in Stortinget, it was set at 2 million. kr to the arrangement referred to by the representative. When I was asked in the Questionnaire about what I meant about the scheme, I expressed my view. I have a lot of respect for local democracy, but I think they're 2.5 billion. kr, which we have put on the table for the municipalities, could take care of this in a good way. The fact that we have reached a budgetary settlement between the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the UK on Stortinget has increased this to $2502 million. kr, lives well with this council.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3230	One of the reasons Norway is the port we are today is research and development. The marine technology centre has been fully instrumental in this development over many decades and has a large part of the credit that we are where we are today, in both oil and gas, maritime sector, marine sector and renewable energy. Now we see that other countries are passing us by on the research infrastructure, and that's why the Ocean Space Centre is a very important project. However, the government will not pay for essential user equipment in two of the main laboratories. This applies as M-lab, which is a set of laboratories for research into energy and propulsion system technologies and concepts, and K-lab, which is a laboratory for mechanical testing of structures and structural components to verify the lifetime of structures exposed to waves, currents and winds. Is that what this Workers' Party meant when they talked about a more active industrial policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3237	With regard to the Ocean Space Centre, perhaps some of the most exciting Norway has to be built in the next few years. The government has continued the investment that was held by the previous government, for half a billion dollars in the budget for 2022. In the last few days, we have also clarified one of the important milestones – that ESA has accepted the facility for funding the centre. I'm very sure that what we're going to do about the Ocean Space Centre is going to be very exciting. It's going to be a good center. So I think I'm going to be held back by standing on the Storting's pulpit and clarifying the questions that have been raised in the last few days. This is going to be good, but it's a big boost for us as a nation, so it's going to require strict priorities in the years to come to succeed with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3244	This is not a problem that has been raised in the last few days. The financing of user equipment in M-lab and K-lab has been a discussion for more than six months. In the election campaign, the Labour Party representatives in Trøndelag promised to complete the financing of user equipment at the Ocean Space Centre. The problem now is that it cut as – yes, it is right – the previous government let in, but as the government of today continues, you can risk not being built, not being equipped, because it is also allowed too little money for the buildings. There, Sintef has said that they can build on their own, but that they need to have money for the user equipment. These are two laboratories that will be completely instrumental in getting everything we want to do on the ocean. So I ask again: The Progress Party is proposing today to increase the framework of the user equipment – why won't the Workers' Party be involved?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3251	My responsibility is to ensure that the project is passed on on in the light of the decisions taken in Stortinget. It's a big and important job. The first thing we did after the government change was to avoid the project organisation being scaled down, so that we could keep progress in the work. I think I'm going to let the Biggest negotiations decide what framework the Biggest will put in for my further work in the future, but I really look forward to getting on with the important job of getting up that magnificent building and what will help bring important research forward in the years and decades to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3257	Governments are committed to the development of fisheries and maritime nutrition and to increasing value creation across the coast, and that is good. What we know is most important for fisheries and seafood, is to have security for clean seas, clean fjords and clean marine environments. One of the issues in which a collective fishery and seafood industry has been most involved is to put an end to the strangest practice of dumping mining waste in Norwegian fjords and lakes. It applies in general and is particularly applicable to Fördefjord. Seafood Norway and Norway Fiskarlag have recently made contact with the Ministry of State Councils, where an insistently asks for a new and thorough assessment of Fördefjorden-saka, where the maritime interests of the application that is now on the table are to a greater extent taken into account. I would like to ask the Council of State: does the Council of State support the requirement of a comprehensive maritime nutrition?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3264	I believe in Stortinget's pulpit to be careful to deal with what is the constitutional responsibility of this Council of State. Then it will always be that, for the Ministry of Food and Fisheries, it is important to safeguard fisheries and seafood interests in all areas, and that we ensure that all industry, including the mining industry, operates as sustainably as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3269	I thank you for your answer and note that the Council of State will not go into the specific matter. Yesterday it became known that ESA has entered into contact with Norwegian authorities and stated that Norway does not comply with the EU Mineral Waste Directive when it comes to the practice of mining waste both in sea and on land. This is because of complaints from a wide range of environmental and business organisations. So once again, I want to challenge the Council of State a little bit more generally: does the Council of State support an integrated maritime food and fisheries industry in that we must now take better care of our fjords, that we must put an end to strange practices that allow waste to be dumped in the sea, instead of using them in a sensible and socially accessible way on land, a practice that is actually peculiar throughout Europe and is allowed only in two other countries in the world?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3276	This is probably still outside the constitutional territory of the Council of State, but the Council of State can be answered if he wants to – be so good.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3281	I can still say that for me, it is absolutely essential that we ensure good coexistence no matter what industries we talk about linked to the sea. The Hurdal platform has clear ambitions for Norwegian mineral industry, but I think it is for the Minister of Industry to answer further questions related to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3286	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3293	The extraction of minerals is an important Norwegian industry and will become significantly more important in the years to come. A 2016 report from Norway’s geologic survey, NGU, estimated that minerals are worth at least 2,500 billion. kr in the Norwegian bedrock, and if we continue processing the minerals, the value will increase to 8 000 billion. kr. This is estimates from 2016. That means that today's value can be much higher, because there's been more findings, and because the demand for minerals just gets bigger. A report from the International Energy Agency, the IEA, believes that the demand for copper and rare earth metals will increase by 40 pst. before 2040, the demand for nickel and cobalt by 60 to 70 pst. and the demand for lithium will increase by nearly 90 pst. before 2040. It's because these minerals are part of the technologies we need in the green shift, such as batteries, solar panels and windmills. The extraction of most of these minerals is currently taking place in a few countries. Most of the cobalt is extracted in Congo, and rare earth minerals in China. The processing of several critical minerals is largely carried out in China. Norway is a blessed country. We have access to large amounts of petroleum resources that have made us rich. It turns out that we are sitting on large deposits of sought minerals such as titanium, copper, zinc, phosphate and rare earth metals. The United States and the EU are developing strategies to ensure access to critical minerals. It is an enormous opportunity for Norway that we must seize with both hands. Earlier this year, the government asked the government to develop a mineral strategy, where the Norwegian mineral industry is seen in the context of EU efforts to ensure access to critical minerals and metals. I look forward to the government coming back to Stortinget with such a strategy. In order to provide the best assumptions for the mineral industry, more needs to be put in place. We need to increase the mapping of minerals in Norway, and we need to simplify bureaucracy. It takes years today from an application first to the table, until the extraction can start, and sometimes the problems don't end there either. In the case of Nussir, we saw that the whole thing was trying to sabotage it, and still is. The Progress Party is betting on the mineral industry in our alternative budget. We're proposing to allocate 20 million. kr more to NGU in order to improve the monitoring of mineral resources. We're proposing to grant $5 million. additional to the Mineral Management Directorate with the Svalbard Bergmeister so that the concession queues can be further reduced. Last but not least, we want to establish a mineral fund, as Finland has. It provides better access to capital so that more people can bet. First of all, we're proposing a
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3318	Marine and farming industries have had adventurous developments. In some decades, the industry has become a multiplicity of good and healthy food production, and it has now become one of the most important industries we have. Along the whole coast, there are larger and smaller companies that create large values, jobs and activity. Both the government of Solberg and the government of Støre have included in their government budgets a proposal to change practices for the valuation of breeding concessions given before 1998. The background is that, unlike concessions given after 1998, these concessions have not been included in the wealth tax base. In order to ensure equal taxation of concessions given before and after 1998, it is therefore proposed that concessions given before 1998 should now be valued according to their turnover value. Although the reason for the change is tax equal treatment of concessions, smaller local family businesses along the coast experience changes in property taxation as very challenging. It is also active that this can trigger accidental structural changes. When the government of Solberg presented its contribution to the state budget, a slight contribution was also made to the wealth tax on working capital. The government, on the other hand, increases the wealth tax. This would actually double the property tax for the owners of these smaller, local family businesses that I have just mentioned, compared to what was the Solberg government's draft budget. The proposal for a government budget linked to farming concessions has given strong reactions to the companies that have become the framework. There are also reactions from several of the municipalities that house these companies. These reactions indicate that the new rules will cause unreal and unintended disadvantages to these smaller, local companies, compared to larger, generally quoted companies. In order to ensure that the intentions of non-discrimination are achieved and that the new practice is perceived as reasonable and reasonable, the Right and Left of the Enterprise Committee have therefore submitted their own observations on the matter during the examination of the State budget. The two parties thus ask that a reasonable understanding be established in determining the sales values of these concessions, and that the government find good models for this in cooperation with the industry. None of the government parties join the comment from the Right and Left. I still allow myself to encourage the government party to follow up on this. Farming and farming are likely to provide good and sustainable framework conditions in the future. This must also apply to the very skilled smaller, local family businesses we have along our entire coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3333	It's very nice to come to this hall and talk about agriculture. As I said in a reply earlier: the social mission for agriculture is to secure the population of Norway enough and safe food, produced on Norwegian natural resources. A varied use structure adapted to the country's natural resources and geography provides the best possible means of producing food in a sustainable and climate-friendly way. The centre party is, and has been, known for a long time to want agriculture all over the country. Increased value creation and reduction of agricultural climate pressure are defined by action in the Hurdal platform. Strong import protection and annual agricultural negotiations are also important points to ensure good income opportunities for business operators. In addition, I would mention the important role of agricultural cooperation as an executive in market regulation, a regulation that ensures stable provision and stable prices for commodity producers. Reduced greenhouse gas emissions from agriculture are one of the industry's biggest and most important challenges. Increased self-sufficiency and adapted production along with a changed and more difficult climate will be demanding but absolutely feasible. That is why I am very pleased that the government is aggressively setting up Bionova as an active contribution to the development of business, reduced greenhouse gas emissions and, in particular, carbon binding. The interaction and development of the bioeconomy related to agriculture, forestry and aquaculture become Bionova’s main arena. There are unprecedented opportunities for increased value creation and new jobs, and for ensuring food production while contributing to climate challenges. It is an important point to point out that the measure with Bionova in agriculture should be organised in such a way that food producers with different sizes and types of operation in all parts of the country have a real opportunity to receive funds and help with measures on their own farm. In the budgetary agreement with SV, the Government intends to establish Bionova with money, content and impact in half a year. The response from engaged food clusters across the country is very good. Interaction actors in soil, forest and ocean, together with creative clusters of competences, are a good starting point and good contributors to succeed in the work with Bionova. This is a line-up for many exciting innovation environments and business actors who are ready to contribute to an exciting future for the industry. There is good reason to be optimistic about a new government and a new course for agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3348	The sea and the earth are in each way important food trays for us human beings. Resources both at sea and on land also provide a basis for important economic activity if at the same time we take good care of nature and the environment. The government has announced that it will prepare an allowance notification, which will be important for developments in fisheries. There we have to listen to different parts of the industry and not least to research and balance well with each other. When it comes to aquaculture, the Hurdal Platform states that the growth must take place in a far-reaching, controlled and viable way, and the concern for the wild will, for example, be seen. are important. So to agriculture, in that industry, you can't exactly point out high pay relative to the effort, and we know that a lot of farmers count on the buttons in terms of whether they're going to continue or not. It's dramatic that a lot of fields grow again as a result of the fact that the economy is too poor to operate. This applies particularly to the areas that are most difficult to get to, but it's scary how evolution is also many other places. That is why I am so pleased with the change of government that took place in October, when we went with the Workers' Party in the Centre and stated clearly in the Hurdal Platform that an obligatory and time-consuming plan is to be put forward to close the income gap between agriculture and other groups. Already in the State budget for 2022, extra funds have been provided for investment, especially for small and medium-sized applications. This is very important. As a result, several people stop counting on the buttons and start upgrading their feathers or building new feathers. For animals, the result is that they do not stand on a stand when such investment means are used to speed up the transition to lay-off operations. The latency requirement is right because it's important for animal welfare, but we have to remember that the option to the many stalls that still exist is because many farmers aren't building new, but actually laying down completely. A further increase in spending on such investment will lead to a continuation of agriculture and food production in more places in our country, and this is crucial for food preparedness and in order to increase the production of food on Norwegian resources as the population grows. I look forward to putting a proper effort on food production both in the sea and on the land ahead. Of course, this must go hand in hand with a bet on bearer power. In a country where livestock is so strong because 70 pst. of arable land is grassland and is not suitable for other food production, e.g. not the cow and the sheep – after they have our lifebergs for us the nords through generations – are turned into climate change. One thing is certain, and it's that a nation will never be able to cope with a poor or failing national food production.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3363	And then we're left here. The salt smells like booze again. Although we are among the countries of the world that have handled the Corona best, it has hit hard here as well. Heroes in the health care system are worn out. The news has just come that the employees in the intensive care department at the University Hospital Nord-Norway have been suspended for holidays this Christmas. Part of business is once again forced to kneel down, and we can't even comfort each other by hugging each other. The challenges we have here in the Chamber are responsible for solving – both in the short term and in the long term – many. Right now, it's mainly the consequences of the pandemic: it's the pressure on the health care system, and it's the burden that business has to bear. On top of that, we have the power prices. In the long term, there is a new crisis ahead of us. We can't just call it a pandemic, but it's a crisis we haven't really begun to deal with, even though we're aware that it's coming. Because in the decades ahead of us, fewer people will be in working age behind each pensioner. The government's expenditure will go up without us being able to increase revenue as much. This means that maintaining and ensuring the sustainability of the welfare society – both socially, climateally and economically – is essential for Norway to remain a good country to live in, and for us to continue to cope with today’s challenges. We have a good starting point for dealing with both the challenges we see here today in the short term and those that come in the long term. Simply because Norway has a lot of money. We have succeeded in converting a very large and important natural resource – oil and gas – into one of the world's largest financial funds. It gives us a great responsibility and a lot of opportunities that other countries don't have. The job will be able to hold on to it and solve it well in the future. On my way to work this morning, I met the Nissen in the Hegdehaugsvegen. I have to admit that it was a little childish joy, it was a little stony – he had proper beards and stuff. I could see that today there is exactly one week left for Christmas. When there is one week left for Christmas, the concern – for the vast majority – is to be: am I going to buy everything I'm going to? Did I buy Mom a present? Have the cloths been snuffed out? Is the swearing going crazy on a rib this year? Is all the pears in the link going on the Christmas tree? This year it is different that we have other concerns. Several have closed their businesses, others lose large revenues. Standing one week before Christmas and being on the spot is bone tough. And for many, this is far from the first time under the pandemic. Hopefully, this shutdown is short-lived. I'm excited about the press conference coming later today. In the future, we must help those who again bear the heaviest burden of this crisis. We have to help people and businesses have the skills they need. When we meet in 2022, we need to create more and include more. What we don't have to do is what we're going to adopt today: make sure that ordinary people pay top taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3379	We often talk about what we're going to live on in the future, and about technology development and opportunities. We're talking about hydrogen, offshore, ocean winds, autonomous vehicles and a lot more. It is important to look at what technologies we will live on in the future, but we also need to have a clear look at how to make our industry more efficient, so that we also ensure production in Norway. Because it doesn't help much that we're at the top of the world in technology development, if we don't have production environments in Norway that are competitive enough to compete with the rest of the world. Industrial development is not a circuit championship; it is a world championship. Then we must be one team in Norway. We have to play each other good and thus be able to develop, innovate and produce in a way that makes us competitive all over the world. The instruments are now being strengthened, and a majority of the Committee points out that we need an instrument to tackle existing enterprises that will develop further and become more effective. I'm glad. That's where Industry 4.0 comes into the picture: the fourth industrial revolution. The first was about using mechanics and steam, the second about increasing productivity through electricity and mass production and the third about automated individual processes. The fourth is about putting into practice and integrating all the technology we have. We have to have machines that talk to each other, that use data in a new way, and that make it less time to fill out forms and do unfavorable manual operations. It'll make companies talk better together, and it'll make it easier to cooperate with subcontractors. We can't afford not to be involved in this development. The world's going on – we're in part, but we have a good deal left. We have to speed up, because team Norway is going to compete abroad, we have to be on the ball now. It is digitisation, automation, integration and development of competences that together make us not only export knowledge of technology, but also export technological solutions produced in Norway. If we are to succeed, we need a targeted commitment to competence and education. That is what this government is doing with a commitment to practical skills, professional skills and vocational education. We are concerned with continuing education, so that people can update their knowledge and contribute to development. We need to put in place testing and competence centres to enable companies to develop and learn and to use new skills and to use them in their own production. This will contribute to development and innovation, because when wise heads get the opportunity to work together, 1 + 1 becomes more than 2. Here the Kongsberg industry is ready to take a leading role. I'm glad we have a government that sees this. We want to ensure an instrument that hits, so that we not only develop new technologies, but also further develop our production environments to be at the top of the World Cup in industry in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3398	In October, I received a post from this pulpit. It was about making it more attractive for us to be able to invest in our own jobs. I took the impression that for a long time I have had good contact with many new entrepreneurs in Sogn and Fjordane, and that I know well that a challenge these often have is that it is not a good thing to recruit skilled employees. One way to remedy this could be to put in place a good option tax system. In spring, the government of Solberg therefore came with just such a scheme, and this is then in the submitted state budget. The new arrangements include: that the date of taxation is deferred to the date of the addendum itself to sell its assets, that profit is taxed as capital income, and that the favourable arrangement is extended to many other activities. Being able to offer ownership to new employees in the company is a good and effective way to recruit new employees. In the government, Støre’s contribution to the State budget is the option tax arrangements for the Solberg government to maintain. That's what I think is good. What is not as good, on the other hand, is that the government of Støre at the same time removes another favourable tax regime that also made it attractive to be able to invest in their own jobs. This was the case with a general tax credit scheme which had been added to the acquisition of axles at the underprice of the enterprise in which a worker worked. The Solberg government proposed to increase this tax abate in its draft government budget and thus make it even more favourable to co-owners in their own workplace. On the other hand, the Government of Støre has removed the whole scheme, partly with the foundation that a Solberg government has maintained its proposal for an option tax regime for companies in the start-up and growth phase. Thus, the government of Støre gives to some types of enterprises favourable conditions for becoming co-owners in its workplaces, while to other types of enterprises are now being deprived of similar conditions. There is in total no support or encouragement to become co-owners in their own jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3409	It has long been the ambition of the Workers' Party to give a boost to maritime food and fisheries policy, and this government has several ambitions at the same time. We need to cut greenhouse gas emissions, increase exports and create new Norwegian jobs in that process. Seafood, fisheries and marine industries have a very central place in that image. That is why it is also a milestone when we change responsibilities, which means that today we have a Minister for Fisheries and the Sea. And the Coastal Plant and the Pollution Preparedness have been moved home to the Ministry of Food and Fisheries. So the responsibility for our important fishing ports is now where it belongs. One of the most proud things in our history is that we are a fishing and shipping nation. We want the seafood and marine industries to have at least the same strong position in our future. Then we must ensure that the fish belong to the Norwegian people in common, and that the nation has the right and control of the fishing resources and manages them for the benefit of the present and future generations. Then we have to prepare a new quota notification that clears up the uncertainty created by the Solberg government and clarify important framework conditions for the industry, and that we have to meet the Riksrevision report, which pointed out that central fisheries policy principles are challenged. We must ensure predictability of the fishing industry, settlement, activity, increased processing and profitability along the coast. This is done by implementing the management grant and ensuring that it exists, which allows support to transport fish to coastal production businesses to prevent the centralisation of the industry. Of course, we also need to do more to process land. We also compensate the fleet for the CO 2 tax. As far as the aquaculture industry is concerned, we are going through the authorisation system. We also need to develop the traffic light system with several environmental indicators. Together with the tools to convert to the green shift, the aquaculture industry will be an important part of achieving our export objectives and our climate objectives. But then we are also dependent on having an instrument and an active state present. I'm glad the government's adding up. A strong Norwegian tradition, which is also very basic in the Workers' Party's industrial policy, is that the authorities and industries find good solutions together. And we're going to keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3425	I am proud to be here today and to present a budget that shows an industrial policy that will help achieve the objectives of getting more people to work, creating more jobs, creating more activity across the country, increasing exports and not least cutting greenhouse gas emissions. Renewal and innovation are an important key to economic growth. By pursuing an active industrial policy, we will ensure that the country's instruments are successful. This should be done, among other things. implement by reviewing the whole of the economic instrument. The aim here is to simplify, make available and strengthen the mechanisms to help Norwegian enterprises grow and succeed in the necessary transformations and the green shift. Compared to the Solberg government's budget proposal, we are strengthening the appropriations for industrial research and innovation in the budget agreement. Through the tipping and strengthening of research funds, we shall make the most capital available for the green transitions and necessary investments. For us, it is important that the industrial tool is available throughout the country. Siva facilitates innovation through the development and financing of national infrastructure for innovation and industrial development and has a specific responsibility to promote growth in the district. It has therefore been important for us that the proposed cut in the allocation of Siva, as proposed by the Solberg government, is now reversed pending an assessment of the nutritional instrument. The budget agreement also contains an agreement to strengthen the Norwegian catapult by 40 million. kr for test facilities in the district. In the budgetary agreement, we have proposed a new, strong scheme of green growth loans. This will allow more and more green projects to be implemented. Fortunately, Norway is not alone in achieving the 2030 climate change target. This is why the government is also proposing to give more money to the InvestEU programme. The InvestEU is at the heart of the green shift and the transformation into the European economy, and participation will help to give Norwegian industry access to the same instruments as the industry in our neighbouring countries. We're going to get Norway through the biggest shift in recent times. We've started late, but now we're going to use the resources smartly and efficiently. We're going to cut as much emissions as possible and at the same time create as many jobs as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3446	I've always liked that saying that one should set the run by food. This applies both to individuals and to society. We in the Central Party understand that a strong business life is the driving force of our welfare society, because well-being for the inhabitants is at most a kind of toner – which must be set for nourishment. It means, in practice, that we need to adapt public spending, public spending, according to the kind of private production and value creation we have in our country. I don't think enough are aware of this. Some parties like a chronic lack of common sense and believe that the size of our oil fund is what's going to save us in the future. Others again underestimate the value of the welfare state and services near the people of the whole country as a basis for growth in business. This first round of the state budget for a fresh government provides opportunities for some extra bets, for which others have done well in the Chamber today, and which is presented by the Committee's position. I want to point more forward, because in the Center Party we are working together with the Labour Party in declaring that we are pursuing an active industrial policy, with emphasis on the word ‘active’. A theme I'm busy with is that the state, county councils and municipalities have a more growth-promoting approach to local and national businesses and industry when they offer. For example, in my home municipality, Surnadal, we have a large pipe factory, Pipelife Norway AS, which has taken a real boost to make production and products more resilient and developed so-called environmental declarations. They did this after Monica Meland, as a municipal minister, revealed that the environment should weigh more heavily in public supply. Pipelife hopes that what they promised for the environment would mean something for the public, for example. in the case of large construction and infrastructure projects. But what is only sad is that when public operators are still well off the cheapest provider, who is fast from abroad, even though it has worse product in climate context and perhaps even worse product otherwise. Therefore, I am pleased that the Hurdal Platform states that the government will ‘change public procurement legislation and practices to support important objectives such as sustainability, good pay and working conditions, use of apprentices, innovation and local ring-effects’. It also states that ‘public acquisitions must be designed and contract size adapted to allow Norwegian companies to participate in the competition’. In this way, we can better facilitate the development and growth of local and national businesses, and this will help us in future budgetary processes. Then we can ensure that for the future, too, we can focus on nutrition without jeopardising our welfare society.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3459	I'm an urgent commodity to the representative of Rasmus Hansson. Normally, I'm a permanent city government representative in Oslo City Council. I am deeply concerned about Oslo's business life in the crisis we are now facing again. I've talked to a lot of people in Oslo's serving business who are really struggling. They're in despair. As the first travel guy – or first travel person, as we in the Green Party say – I would like to take the opportunity to give the Minister of Industry a reward. He's been talking directly to several actors in the Oslo food industry this week. He has brought with him a notebook. Honor be a minister who does that. I sincerely hope that it makes him have very good solutions for Oslo's serving industry. We need to follow closely. Few industries employ as many people in the capital as the food industry, and almost all of us use their offers from time to time. They make up a very important and diverse part of what we often call a little bit of flakes, but quite true, Oslo's soul. They need security, they need to cover losses, they need a fair solution, and not least a solution that actors themselves can easily understand. In addition, we are also promoting a loose proposal today where we ask the government to clarify that restaurants and restaurants can get compensation for lost stores, even if they choose to give away food they do not get sold, instead of throwing it. Several actors I have been in contact with, experience this as very unclear, and this confusion can lead to a maximum unnecessary food waste.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3470	Norwegian Industry reports a good 2021. In the October consultation round of the Committee, we were told that the industrial and mining industries, and in particular the export industry, are growing well. The export income of the mainland companies has increased by 19 p.m. so far. Mainland exports will pass 500 billion. kr for the first time. At the same time, a total of goods exports will be 1 200 billion. kr. The trade surplus will set a new record in 2021. A high level of investment is also reported despite the challenges of a demanding pandemic. This was a summary and introduction that the committee received at the consultation with Norwegian Industry, and it was a macro-image that was taken before a new and demanding round in the pandemic struck inward. The picture does not show the challenges that exist in the most vulnerable industries, which are once again being hit. Travel, accommodation and food service activities, etc. I have had another demanding time, and I am happy that the government is close and continuously working with solutions and measures to remedy the difficult situation. The Hurdal platform has a clear and offensive message – creating jobs and cutting emissions. Norwegian enterprises must have good, predictable and stable framework conditions that can facilitate private investment and further growth. The State shall assume responsibility for putting in place the necessary and forward-looking infrastructure, enter into partnerships with a focus on emission reduction and industrial development, contribute risk capital and, in particular, use its purchasing power to create a stronger domestic market. Hydrogen is likely to be an important part of the solution. Hydrogen is an energy carrier with significant potential to reduce emissions from a number of sectors while increasing value creation and employment. The government will build and develop a coherent value chain, where production, distribution and use are developed in parallel. It is a bet that suits the region I come from, very well. Outer Namdal has a fantastic innovation cluster in the marine and maritime supply industry, with offensive value creators focusing precisely on an integrated value chain and sustainable production. The Centre Party and the Workers' Party will have more jobs in the government, create activity throughout the country, increase exports and at the same time cut greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3485	The sculptural images as some, and the centre party in particular, are trying to draw from the agricultural policy of the Progress Party, are very misleading. The progress party does not have a goal of maximising all uses, but the Progress Party believes that the farmer knows best and himself will be allowed to determine the size of the farm or can be. When we increased the quota ceiling on milk, it wasn't like that that we meant all uses in Norway were to produce 900 tons, but it gave them a chance that would. The party of progress gives the farmer freedom of nutrition. It's not that big is good, and small is bad. Norway is a long-distance country, and with the geography we have in the country, we still have many small uses, even though we have made it possible for the use to grow. When the Progress Party had the Minister of Agriculture, a number of grants were diverted from grants for farm use for food production, and food production increased in many areas. The Progress Party will continue to simplify agriculture and facilitate more non-discrimination between uses. We want fewer arrangements, not more, and we want to strengthen the farmer's ownership. We will facilitate more competition across the whole value chain for the sake of consumers. The progress party will have more food and less state. I record that with the Senterpartiet back in the Ministry of Agriculture, there will again be more government governance and backsliding against the monopoly situation. That's maybe what the Center Party thinks is to take care of Norwegian agriculture. The Government will remove the competitive subsidies under the PU scheme. In some areas, Tine has nearly 100 pst. of the market in milk and nearly 50 pst. the market share of the areas where they are weakest. This will be changed by the government so that the market role of Tine will increase, while less of them will face challenges of maintaining competition. The centre party is in the process of reintroducing the monopoly and putting in place regulations to restrict the farmer's freedom of nutrition. In its alternative budget, the Progress Party has proposed to reduce agricultural subsidies by about 10 pst. We believe that this is fully possible if, at the same time, the farmer is given greater freedom of nutrition. If someone in 1990 had proposed the removal of subsidies in the fisheries sector, the monopolists – the central party – would say that it would be completely impossible. Today, we see the amazing development of the Norwegian fishing industry over the last 30 years – from being a highly subsidised industry to an almost non-subsidised and regulated industry with good profitability. We believe that it is absolutely possible to do so even within agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3500	The change of government came for agriculture in the time of the Count. It was eight very tough years. It started with Sylvi Listhaug as Minister of Agriculture, who had no faith in any of the Norwegian agriculture, who was to introduce a Danish, German or EU think tank into Norwegian agriculture, without considering which country we live in. And we just heard in the post from the representative, Strifeldt, how knowledgeless the Progress Party is in these questions when a very serious thing is to compare the natural conditions to fish in Norway with the natural conditions we have to grow cereals, potatoes and other foods. Then it's important that that party no longer has a hand on the wheel. There is now a need for an offensive for agricultural policy. The representative Westgaard-Halle jumps on the speaker’s chair and calls it an election fight every time someone takes up this clear distinction – but it’s a reality, because agriculture had a huge cost growth. Former Minister of Agriculture Olug Vervik Bollestad realized that there were 754 million. kr payable to agriculture. She went to Minister of Finance Sanner. What happened? She didn't get the money. It had to Borch's state council take up again. Talking to the National Council of Battle Violence Vedum – he's relatively nice to do, because he understands how important it is to produce food in this country. Having a finance minister who understands that, and having a government that wants to develop agriculture, is what we see in this budget. $200 million. kr for the investment that we got in place has a significant impact on many gardening. I would also like to mention, if one looks back, that where Right would introduce cost-effective food production as the leading source of Norwegian food production and Norwegian agricultural policy, we would say that we want agriculture throughout the country, that we would use agriculture to develop the countryside, to build jobs throughout the country – there is a difference between the Senter party and the government’s agricultural policy and the Right and the Progress Party stands for. And when one tries to cover it, it does a big wrong, and I believe the actors in the industry understand it very well. When the Progress Party cuts $1.3 billion. kr in its alternative budget and then goes to the pulpit and says that no one will label it, it will not mean that it will be almost a good thing for them; yes, it is very good for agriculture that the Right does not have anything they should have said, that the Progress Party does not have anything they should have said. And that must be a long time, because the job of rebuilding this will take time, and it will be demanding, but we're ready to do that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3511	In a reply to the compensation scheme, the Western Government stated that the government had put forward a scheme. Where is it? At least I cannot see that Stortinget has been sent a compensation scheme that the Stortinget will adopt. We do not know about voting, because it is completely uncertain what will happen, when it comes, and not least what will be adopted. It is not the case that the words of the Western Government are the law. Nothing of what he promises, is treated or adopted, and the government does not have a majority. The only thing we know is that what the government is presenting is not going to be adopted as it exists. Then I have to say that it is at the frontier of provocative when the Council of State calls for a more decent debate because one is sincerely engaged on behalf of the companies that are now bleeding. When the Council of State says that there are different opinions about November and December to be seen in the context of the compensation scheme, and we ask who has asked for it, that is not the inconsistency. It's an expression of a genuine curiosity. For no party we have spoken to – NHO, LO, Works or single companies – has asked for it, on the contrary. Then I'm not going to accuse the Council of State of lying, because some people have certainly asked for November to be included, but it's not the parties or the companies. It's the bureaucrats in the Ministry of Finance. I understand that, because they'll always be against the government spending money. It is an honest matter to lose their cases in government, but it is not okay to point to the parties and companies. Without prejudice to the fact that I remember correctly from the meeting with the NHO Travel Life only a short time ago, they say that between 80 pst. and 100 pst. by enterprises that are now the hardest hit, will not be included if you see November and December as a whole. It makes a strong impression, and it makes it absolutely necessary to make changes to the scheme that Western has talked about, but not to show the cards. It's not the only thing left to answer about the compensation scheme. We have heard on guard that companies with profits are not going to get anything. What about the owner who has not paid a salary for a year to improve the soundness of his company? Should he or she make a salary before 31 December, so that he or she is sure to be covered by the compensation scheme? What about the company that has worked hard throughout the year and made a marginal profit? Should that company spend money before 31 December, so that the company comes out with a marginal deficit instead? There are questions that companies must answer before 31 December.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3523	Travel is one of our most important industries in the future, helping to secure value creation and jobs throughout the country. Lonely Planet has ranked Norway second in terms of the best destination in 2022. If it's an industry that we really find in the whole country, it's the travel industry. This industry contributes to a diversity of offers out in every crick and hook in our long-range country. Therefore, we must take seriously the roaring cry that is now coming from that industry and the concern that it now has. The wear and tear they now feel after opening, closing down, opening and closing down, we must take it seriously. Several places around the country have travel life despite the work of making destinations sustainable. My concern is that now, after two with a government that has not met the concerns of that industry, we don't have a host when we're really going to bet. We know that the industry is hard hit, and it's going to need support to rebuild even after the infectious diseases measures are gone. At the same time, it provides opportunities to further develop Norway as a world-class sustainable destination for travel life. Innovation Norway presented a new strategy for Norwegian travel life earlier this year. Unfortunately, the Solberg government has not delivered on it. It is essential that more targeted work is now done to make the tourism industry more sustainable, to ensure more jobs throughout the year and to ensure that the consequences of the coronary crisis do not persist. Then it's a pleasure that the Hurdal platform shows us the way. We will develop a national travel industry plan focusing on sustainable development, marketing, competence, full-year jobs, destination development and value creation across the country. What is really important is that if we are to do this, we must also have Innovation Norway with us. I'm glad we've managed to keep many of the funds that were cut off by the previous government, because that's important. If it is an industry that builds community in this country, it is the tourism industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3534	We cannot have a debate on industrial policy in the United Kingdom in 2021 without talking about the West. In my main post instead, I am speaking, as many others here, quite rightly, about the crisis and the current day-to-day crises that some of the business world is currently facing. But we're also in a time of amazingly exciting new opportunities for business, not least associated with green conversion. The Western countries, new Western countries, have been working on what I think is unique in national contexts, simply a comprehensive strategy for how to make a large-scale green transition to the whole of the new big state in nine years, by 2030. The report on the Green region of Westland was presented a few weeks ago. Cluet in it is creating a broad cooperation to discover, assemble and speed up business opportunities throughout the new state, to realise the potential for green migration. One has involved small and large business operators across the county and absolutely all municipalities. One has identified 250 possible green growth projects. What is outlined in the report is a comprehensive potential for reducing emissions by 55 pst, creating 24,000 new green jobs and 75 billion. kr increase value creation by building cooperation, symbiosis and new value chains between old industries, all of which are about speeding up the green shift. This way of working I think is important at all levels in the future, both local, regional and national. Some bottlenecks have also been identified to achieve this. A lot of it's about network capacity - power access. It is about putting in place flexible and decentralised education and R & D activities on business premises throughout the country, and it is not least about getting even closer cooperation with the EU in a common European policy on green migration, and Norway can play an active role in it. I'm not saying this to bring any sort of criticism against the current government and the new Minister of Industry. On the contrary, this is an invitation to a cooperation that I believe can be important for the country and for absolutely all parties. For example, I record that the Viking County has now set up a plan to dissolve the county, and that it costs 400 million. kr to split the county. The government has said that it takes all the costs of splitting the county. If one wants to make an investment that I think is much better, it is to say to Westland that Westland should build up, not split up, and to spend as much money on those who want to build up, built on green conversion, as those who are now going to split up around the country. This is exciting. I have faith in Westland.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3547	As we have been well documented in today's debate, Norway has gone completely wrong as an export nation under the Right and the Advance Party. Norway needs a change of pace, and Norway will have a change of pace with the Workers Party and the Centre Party. We want to increase mainland exports by 50 pst. By 2030, and we have already started a series of measures to start the repair job after eight blue-blue years. But as elected representatives, we cannot adopt ourselves for more exports alone. We depend on the large Norwegian industrial group playing on teams. We in the Workers' Party are now very concerned about what is going on with Norway's patch in Vennesla. Orkla Wound Care bought up the company last year. Now they're considering flagging out. According to trust elected representatives, Norway's patch has been in surplus every year since 1938. It would therefore be very unmusical if Orkla chose to put down the corner stone company in Vennesla under two years after they bought it. Norway patches export about two thirds of what they store. When a company as a Norwegian patch by both name and logo clearly identifies a national identity, the company must of course have production in Norway. Otherwise, it has to change its name, for example. to Spain’s patch. If Norway is to succeed as a nation, we depend on building up several Norwegian industrial workplaces, not flagging out profitable businesses. In particular, it is important to develop further export-oriented jobs in Norway, such as those in Norway. Large Norwegian groups like Orkla have a special responsibility to contribute to our success. It's like community we create more exports and value creation, and it's like community we secure Norwegian jobs. We in the Workers' Party will take our responsibility to secure the Norwegian jobs, and we will urge Orkla to do exactly the same. Dear Orkla, give 50 families in Friends the Christmas gift they deserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3560	This was not the post I had planned to keep today. I thought the debate would be about the budget we have presented. Nevertheless, I am pleased that the debate has focused on the challenges of employment and business in the context of the new corona actions. I have also had conversations with employees, company owners and the social partners, and I understand that they are concerned. In addition, they are worn after a prolonged pandemic. I am also pleased that the government early announced that interventional measures for the protection of infectious diseases would be followed up by compensatory financial measures. In line with the current disease protection measures, the government will also reinforce and extend measures aimed at providing economic security to people and businesses throughout the period of contact-limiting councils and rules. The government has shown that it extends far to help business and does what it can for people to keep their jobs and for businesses to get through this period as well. I will frame – I will see how many I reach – the financial measures proposed by the government since 2 December. I'm just going to frame those that apply in the field of ‘nutrition’. We also have actions in the fields of culture, municipalities, transport, etc.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t extend the national business compensation scheme by 2021 extend the municipal compensation scheme for local enterprises by 1 billion. kr implement the loan guarantee scheme; reintroduce the support scheme for large public open events assess the possibility of making it easier to apply for deferral of tax payments develop a new wage support scheme cover the costs of corona-related sick leave; reintroduce the passenger charge; aid for lost stocks; For the time being, these are only proposals, and we are all looking forward to them being dealt with in the Stortinget. And with the concern expressed here today, I expect that we will have a broad upturn, so that we can support a business that is in a difficult situation. To be honest, I think the government has done a very good job. They've been sitting in the chairs for two months and working in parallel to create a social democratic budget. They've had two crises in captivity, in the form of corona bloom and record power prices. Many of these crises are something we have inherited, so I think it's well delivered.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3599	It is natural that it has a springing debate. It's a little bit of a quarter that's happening for the moment. So I was going to keep a little bit of a jumpy post and come into more and different things and answer out what's been up for discussion. There were references to the tax debate, some of which suggested that one should do something about the ‘serious wealth taxing’. Understood: in Norway, those who have capital are heavily taxed. Those who keep these posts always ignore the fact that Norway is far from a high taxed country. We are at the bottom of the OECD overview when it relates to the general tax burden, and when it relates to taxes on capital, we are at the level of countries like the United Kingdom, the United States, etc. It's because we have no inheritance tax, we have very low taxes on property, and then we have taxes on wealth. These discussions are constantly forgotten. This has led to a situation where some of the richest people in the country almost don't pay taxes. Had it been a situation where people who had large incomes and large wealth paid an equal share of their income in taxes as a nurse does, we would have had a completely different situation today. But while nurses pay over 30 pst. In tax, the average of the richest in the country is at the very bottom of 2 pst. Then one can, from the speaker's chair to the people, present it as a tragedy. That seems fascinating to me at every tax debate. Another discussion: Something I have never quite understood with the Progress Party is that one thought that it is unlikely that a subsidy would subsidize agriculture. They thought that other types of subsidies were quite right, and these are subsidies that SV fully supports. What we do for seafarers is subsidies. It is never problematic by the Progress Party, rather on the contrary – whether it is tax deductions for seafarers, payroll arrangements, conditioning arrangements, loan arrangements for the disposal of ships, etc. These are comprehensive arrangements, but it is quite unproblematic in the world of the Progress Party. But precisely agriculture is problematic. The oil industry, for its sake, which is heavily tax-subsidized, is also never problematised by the Progress Party. What is the problem with agriculture for the Progress Party? What makes agriculture so difficult to regard as an important part of our national infrastructure? I never understood that. It would have been very nice if a representative who has speaking time again could come up here and give a reasonable answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3610	I'm gonna be very short. I would like to refer to the solution to the proposal that I referred to instead, proposal No. 12 from us. We want to turn this proposal into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3615	It's noted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3620	I held back and tried to put myself on the last list of speakers in an attempt to sum up the debate a little and give some explanations of vote, but I note that that plan did not last. To the extent that the previous speakers were concerned, we have spent a lot of time discussing things that are not really about the budget, but about other important policy areas, which, of course, are bordering on industrial policy – whether there are taxes or other things. The only thing that has been a big discussion about in budgetary terms is agriculture. It was so well summed up that there are several batches that are in between very much for subsidizing one or the other variant of some industries, and not the other. I hope you can try to have some kind of relationship between the different things there. So I thought I'd repeat some of the things in the budget agreement as such. We have a strong strengthening of agriculture. We are doing too much research in the industry and to accelerate the green shift and create Norwegian jobs that facilitate Norwegian export industries. I believe that is good and a great strength. Very many of the parties in the room also agree that we should continue to invest in maritime nutrition, whether it is on the yard side or whether it is for Norwegian seafarers, in order to ensure that competence in the future. That's good. So a small thing, on the side: the fact that the representative of the Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European I have also understood that SV means, but they have to explain it for themselves. The regulation referred to in the proposal is not operational as of today, and therefore it would not be possible to vote for it, we had to vote for it. But we believe that the government has to consider getting back to it quickly, even though it is formally going to be adopted in the Stortinget after Christmas – so that we avoid food loss and hopefully make life a little easier for some of those who receive food from the food centers now for Christmas. I'm going to end by saying that we're in the middle of a pandemic, where we're going to lay the groundwork for providing security for people and business and many who are in an incredibly difficult situation. That's the most important job we can do right now. At the same time, we will lay the foundation for business when we get out of the pandemic, with continued growth in Norwegian business and good Norwegian jobs spread throughout the country. It will lay the foundation for a country that I think most will want to live in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3633	Let it be clear that the government is in dialogue with businesses and social partners every day, almost every day, and the government is more than willing to listen, learn and adjust course along the way. We're here for business. We now have a very important task of helping to secure as many jobs as possible and to help businesses through these difficult weeks, especially those companies and workers that are now particularly affected by infectious diseases. As regards the national compensation scheme and the functional period, November, December, questions were asked about who wants to do so. Well, the companies that never got back after the first round of pandemic, and thus had a bad November, will be relatively satisfied that they can also seek support for lost sales and unavoidable losses in November. So this is not as black and white as some claim. So it was a matter of when the government comes to Stortinget. As I said, a proposal on wage support will be submitted in January. We're dependent on the ESA process on all the new arrangements, I think the Storting is familiar with that. Therefore, those funds could not in any case be disbursed until early January, but it will be important to provide security for this scheme now. With regard to the other financial measures I outlined, the government said on Tuesday that they are dependent on a decision to grant in the Stortingen, even if they come into place as regulations, and so the government intends to present these changes in appropriations to the Stortingen in January. Finally, I am aiming for a system in which companies that have to dispose of goods, i.e. lost stocks as a result of their not being able to operate, can be reimbursed the costs and recover the losses even if they provide the food for a good purpose, given that there are no obstacles to such a solution that we know today. In the end, I would like to stress again that we understand very well – very well – the despair that many people now feel, especially those sectors that are most affected, which have been through a period of ups and downs for almost two years, frustration, hard work, many defeats, sidings, and then disappointments. This is really tough, and they need to know that we're there for them. We hear, we listen, and we're going to do everything we can to make sure that they get the best possible through these weeks as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3648	I am pleased with what the Council of State said at the end, that he emphasises that he actually understands the difficult situation in which the companies are in. Because it was the posts of the representative Vitanza who got me to take the floor, where one only determines that the Labour Party thought this government has done a good job, and that this crisis management is going very well. There is no experience in District Norway, out in Business Norway. The challenge is that the crisis that is now coming is out of control. Thousands of people are being permitted. The impression is that this is going too late, the arrangements don't make it. As I said before, when it comes to the municipal compensation scheme, the government says that the money is on the way out, but now we have confirmation here today that they are not on the way out. It's not even from the government of Stortinget, it'll come in the new year sometime. Then the companies can't get right that these money's coming, because they're actually not. This will take time. And the national compensation system needs to change. There is a whole set of demands from a whole business community. She needs to be adapted, and I will immediately encourage the Council of State to do so, so that the period is December and January, not November and December.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3653	The representative Sivert Bjørnstad has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3659	First to Nordlund and Knag Fylkesnes: It is such that even with the cut of the Advance Party of 1.1 billion. kr to the agricultural agreement, it will remain somewhere between 15 billion. kr and 20 br. kr for agriculture. So agriculture has not been completely subsidized, nor has it been proposed by the Progress Party. So to the West: Of course I think he's concerned about the best business -- of course. That's also his job. However, a number of questions remain to be answered by industry before 31 December, because it is about how these businesses will act before the turn of the year. If you're a business that's likely to go marginally positive, you should actually do what you can to go marginally minus instead, in order to get into the scheme. These companies must be given an answer. Then we have promoted a loose proposal, and that is an alternative to XIII. So we shall not vote in favour of XIII, we shall vote in favour of our own proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3668	The representative, Solveig Vitanza, has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3673	It's actually a line to Bjørlo from the left. What I wanted to do up to when I gave honor to the government was exactly what the West was up to itself: what we have to do now is to create security in the business world. With regard to the added frustration that businesses now feel and that more people have been involved in, this is because we do not know what is coming: these are the proposals that the government has put forward, which we are going to deal with in the Storting, which are to give them guidance on how these compensation schemes are going to be. I know that Bjørlo has a good knowledge of how these processes are going, the approvals that need to be in ESA and stuff. We have to go through that no matter what government sits in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3678	There was a rather strange debate today. Our business – our businesses around the country – bleed. Business managers are in despair, and the only thing that employees are thinking about now is whether they get a notice of leave that they are going to go into Christmas with. When the main speakers of the Workers' Party and the Centre use their entire interventions not to mention one of the most important challenges and difficulties of Norwegian business have ever faced, questions can be asked whether we live in the same country. Now, after it started leaking out information about what the payroll scheme involves, my phone is constantly ticking. Business leaders wonder if it really is such a way to put in place a scheme to exclude many businesses in crisis from using schemes, precisely because – if it is correct – you can set up a scheme where you can only apply for wage support if you choose not to leave any employees. I respect the fact that the government will be allowed to present this arrangement in full. The right is very pleased that the Minister of Finance has responded confirmatively to come here to the Storting if not for so long to present the content of the scheme. I do not doubt in any way the Prime Minister's enormous commitment to and genuine desire to help the companies, but everyone understands that there are a lot of arms and legs. The most likely thing to do now is not to make the business leaders who sit and count on the buttons and wonder if it pays to keep people in work and in activity – to make sure that the outdoor industry, restaurants, hotels and restaurants are able to maintain the skills that have escaped from them in the last few months – are able to preserve those people so that they get through the difficult weeks and perhaps months that stand before us, where the state supports them financially. We will discuss this matter a little later this afternoon. But when the main argument from the Minister of Industry is ESA – that's why you can't file a case today – I don't understand it. Because you can put forward a case in which you can tell the Storting that you are coming back to ESA clarifications. When the Minister of Economic Affairs also confirms that there is no pay support scheme for the Stortinget – in the January summary, it is too late. [[President clubs]] The size should now provide a clarification to managers about devices and whether they can feel confident that the State is setting up financially to maintain these jobs. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3689	There's something about the story here that makes me think we can't just leave the hall without kind of thinking about what it's actually right here trying to say. We're thinking exactly what happened in March 2020. They came up with a crisis system that was too small, it was too late, it was too short, it favored those who had capital, those who had property. Those who took this skill were the workers and the small and medium-sized enterprises. The size opposition forced the government to make extensive changes to it. So on the outside, the same thing happened again. Then it even took four to five months before one came into place with the scheme in force, and there was still a great lack in that scheme there. A lot of money disappeared in excess and exchange, where they weren't going to end up. There were cancellations, restructuring, etc. It's almost that one should have demanded a little quarantine in order to be able to stand here and demand something that one himself was far away from being able to do when one himself was in position.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3696	The representative of County may say, but I was here last year as well, and before Christmas last year we were in exactly the same situation. We got a rough shut-down, it came for the outdoor industry the time it does now, and they really bleed. Now there are permits in the area by area for thousands. So what did we do? Yes, we realized that we were late outside, but we were able to set up a system via the municipalities and get money out to the municipalities before Christmas – 250 million. kr in the ejaculation, and it helped. It hit many of the little ones, it came surprisingly, it made many get through Christmas last year. This year we've been trying to do the same thing. Now we've heard for a month that there are 200 million. kr – which is certainly 200 million. NOK which is left from the revised budget in ours, because then we had a reserve of 500 million. NOK – but I have not yet seen that they have been delivered to the municipalities. We need this money now, they can't come in January. They're granted, it doesn't have to be adopted in the Storting even. The second thing we should do is we did last year -- 300 million. kr in the new aging period. We can do that, it can be decided on Tuesday, and the money is out in the municipalities right away. They managed to get them out to the companies within 14 days of last year, but this government is unable to do. Yes, we're going to have a compensation scheme in place. It'll take longer. Then we're going to have a payroll scheme, but it's also going to be too late. I'm not going to go into what I hear about it, but it's definitely part of the one I disagree with, and it might be a little bit in the post of the representative of the County. Now, for well over a year, we've heard a big concern that there's a profit, that there's someone who's got too much in this period. It has been the constant complaint about the system. That's probably right. It is difficult to make comprehensive arrangements that are comprehensive enough, and there are clearly some who have received funds that they should not have received to the extent that they have achieved. But on the other hand, if you now sit and tighten all these rules, you tighten up the payroll scheme, you tighten up who can get on that compensation scheme, and I don't know if you're also sitting and tightening up on the scheme that's going to the municipalities, you're risking that you'll be able to avoid that there's someone who shouldn't get the money, but you're also doing that to a lot of people who need it – and need it more than ever, they're on their third downfall – and they won't get it either. That's our concern. We need the money now, before Christmas. The previous majority did it, this government has shown so far that they are not doing it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3709	The representative, Mr Nordlund, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3714	I'm making another attempt to end the debate. The representative of Hofstad Helleland tries to tell us what was signed and, in so far as the representative of Kjølmoen was not involved in his main posts, does not lead to correctness. It is possible that the phone came so much that the representative did not bring the two main posts, even though she was a participant in the line change. But the record is going to show that both the undersigned and Kjølmoen were concerned about just the concerns of Norwegian business and that Norwegian workers experienced before Christmas, and I repeat it: it is one of the most important tasks we have, and that was also the beginning of my post. At the same time, we must also take into account how we are planning for the moment after the pandemic.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3721	The representative, Karianne B, has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3726	With all due respect, I think a picture from the Right is drawn that needs a response. Almost all the contributions from both the Centre Party, SV and the Workers' Party have mentioned the crisis we are now in. We have said that we must provide financial support schemes for the duration of the crisis. It didn't do the right-hand government when they ran. We're faster with solutions than the right-hand government was when they ran. So the picture is different than the representative Hofstad Helleland is trying to draw.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3731	The representative Per Vidar Kjölmoen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3737	This has been a strange debate, I must say. We have an opposition that is very little interested in discussing what is to be discussed today, namely the food chapters of the state budget. I cannot interpret this in any other way than that the opposition lacks both a little self-confidence on its own budget proposals and seems to be well-satisfied with the draft budget of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV. I further record that the opposition's own proposals have scarcely been made, and I am tempted to thank you for the confidence the opposition refers to the government for the state budget. On the other hand, we have been very busy discussing something that is not on the agenda, but that will be discussed later, namely the Korona. When the corona hit in 2020, the Workers' Party was committed to giving work rest to the government. I wish the opposite was the case, but we're recording that the Right and the Opposition lie on a different level. It's got to be Right's problem. We in the Workers' Party and the Centre are most concerned about getting Norway safely through the crisis and taking Norway in a fairer direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3744	The representative, Linda Hofstad Helleland, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3749	The reason why the Right does not promote a lot of its own proposals in the Chamber today is that the Solberg government put forward the state budget on the basis of the decisions we are making today. So that explains the matter. Nor has it been many days since the Minister of Industry was out and made it clear that the government did not want a pay support scheme. Then we've been pressured from Stortinget, and we're very happy that the Minister of Industry has been working intensively on this in the last few days, and we're looking forward to what's now being presented. But I would like to stress that it was early last week that our fiscal spokeswoman Tina Bru invited the government to cooperate. The right door is open for us to anchor the financial arrangements of the Stortinget, and that they quickly come into place and begin to work. We do not say that we were flawless. But now we've experienced almost two years of pandemic, and then we have to expect that the government is more advanced in the shoes than what we've experienced in the last few days.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3758	Neither I nor other representatives of the government have rejected a pay-as-you-go scheme. On the other hand, we have said that we are in dialogue with the parties on various economic instruments. We have, in a row, put in place powerful financial measures to keep people in work, secure jobs and to help companies get the best out of this situation. There was no cyclical wage support scheme after the previous government that could only be removed from the drawer and reintroduced in a minute. For this reason, the government has worked intensively with the parties – almost day and night – to find a pay support scheme to meet the companies that now need it and to help keep their job as much as possible. If we're going to make sure that this is going to be a good system, it actually takes a few days. With regard to the national compensation scheme, I understand that there are now many schemes, but I can tell you that the national compensation scheme covers parts of the fixed, unavoidable costs for companies that have had a fall in turnover. Thus, a scheme in force in November and December cannot be paid until the month for which it is intended to cover the turnover is completed. That's what it's been before, and that's what it's going to be now. This means that enterprises can apply to that scheme only for the next year. We have warned that they should be prepared for yield limits and profit limits, simply because we believe that the scheme should be in place for those companies that need it the most. In the case of the compensation scheme, it is not long before the government can be entirely specific about what it implies for the enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3775	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 22-24.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3792	It is on behalf of a Joint Committee that this suspension of the provisional law on adaptations to the legislation on the protection of children and children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's children's Thus, an overall committee agrees that the situation suggests that there is a need for a new law now that the former law was repealed in November. Where the situation of infection is as it is, the temporary law is necessary to ensure the proper and safe operation of the county and the care of children in foster homes and institutions during the outbreak of covid-19. However, there is a need to comment on a few points in this law, and that is why I am here today. In fact, the law's proposal to Section 5 to allow a child to be temporarily moved from a child protection institution has had quite a number of reactions in, among other things. the round of consultations. We have noticed that there are some concerns about how and how often this home is used specifically. It is therefore important for the Committee to stress here, too, that this should be a very narrow rule of exception and that the law as such should be passed on primarily for emergency reasons. Furthermore, the Stortinget has previously set clear limits on the duration of such temporary legal provisions before the Stortinget is required to re-assess them. However, when we now support the Government's proposal to extend until 1 July 2022, it is in the light of the experience we have had now that it may be necessary. At the same time, the government must be aware that it is a prerequisite for our part that, at any given time, it should be stated that there is no longer a need for the temporary law, the law must be repealed immediately. At the same time, it is also important that Stortinget has a real opportunity to assess how the law actually works. It is therefore appropriate to give a thorough assessment to the Stortinget in good time before any extension of the provisional law would become applicable. For this reason, a Joint Committee also promotes the proposal under point B that the Storting should ask the Government, by the end of May, to provide information on how the law has been applied, the experience gained by the parties with the use of the exemption provisions, the consequences of the application, including the extent to which the county councils have applied the exemption provisions, and the number of children who have moved to another institution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3803	First, I would like to thank the Committee, which has dealt with this matter very quickly. Temporary adaptations to the child protection legislation and the county councils are proposed to address the consequences of the covid-19 outbreak. The duration of the corresponding temporary law expired as late as November 10th this year. So now we are unfortunately forced to ask for the Storting's support to reintroduce the code because of it. the disease situation. Child protection and inclusion are societally critical functions that must also function in exceptional situations. This temporary law opens up, among other things. remote, remote and partially written proceedings in the counties. Without these changes, we fear that cases could have been delayed, possibly that proceedings could stop altogether. It could have had consequences for the legal certainty of those who love it and for society. Temporary laws give you rules about moving a child from an institution as a result. covid-19 and the possibility of digital supervision and follow-up conversations with children in foster homes and institutions, but only if this is imperative. It is important for me to stress that child protection and inclusion should use the ordinary paragraphs of the Child Protection Act if possible. Temporary permission is only to be used due to. covid-19 and when the strict conditions of the laws are fulfilled. I have proposed that the laws be extended until 1 July 2022, which we now see that the Storting will join. Then I read in the box that the committee points out that if the need is not present, this law shall be repealed immediately. Of course, the Storting can do that when they mean it. The Committee has also asked the Government to inform the Stortinget before the end of May about how the laws are applied and what experience the parties have with the use of these paragraphs. That's what I think is a wise decision, and I'm going to come back to Stortinget in a useful way before the end of May. I can inform you that in the use that has been made of the corresponding temporary law, the movement of children has been very little used. The case resolution section has been widely used to prevent cases from being postponed. When it comes to the movement of children, it is also stated that this should only be done if it is imperative and if the child needs care and protection, and there are strict grounds and documentation requirements, including the best intentions of the child and his/her child, to be stressed. I will come back with information that Stortinget has asked for. Otherwise, I am glad that a joint committee has supported the legislative proposal that has been presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3816	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 25-digit number
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3833	The size has then come to issue no. 26 on today's changed maps. This setting has not been out of time, i.e. 48 hours, cf. Rules of Procedure § 46. However, the President will propose that the matter be referred to the Court. The representative, Mr Sylvi Listhaug, has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3842	The Advance Party is concerned that we should have a quick procedure, but this is irresponsible. We have not received answers to the questions we have asked about how much more Norwegian households get when you go from 50 to 55 pst. We figured it out ourselves, but we didn't get it confirmed by the department. Secondly, and I think that is even worse: when it comes to the proposal to postpone the introduction of network leases, which were communicated with the agreement, we can read at Nok.no – and it is strange that we can read it at Nok.no, when we have repeatedly asked the oil and energy minister here today, without getting answers – that several network companies are already ready to implement the scheme. They can do that as planned, it is said, even if the Storting decided otherwise, but the requirement for them to do so is postponed. So that's what's in the agreement between the Swedish Government and the Swedish Government. The progress party believes that we should have received a clear answer to this before we go to the handling of this matter. That is why we propose to postpone its treatment until tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3851	The size has been set to deal with this matter quickly. This has also been done by a unanimous Committee on Energy and the Environment. I would like to stress that I feel that the Minister of Oil and Energy has been able to answer the main questions raised by the Stortinge in connection with this treatment, and that good proceeds calculations have been made on the various questions that have also been raised. So it is that the Progress Party this morning asked some questions about proceeds calculations related to different annual consumption for some examples, which the ministry has not been able to answer. It's hard to estimate it, and it's also very dependent on how the current price actually evolves in the future in order to give a correct answer. I believe that this matter has been well informed for the committee, and I would recommend the Stortinget to consider it. It is very important that we manage to deal with this matter today, so that we do not in any way doubt that the payments and effects can be made as of 1 January 2022.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3860	Several have not asked for the floor for the debate. The President perceives that in order for electricity customers to be able to obtain help with the bill due in January, a second treatment is needed before the New Year. That is why it has been suggested that it be dealt with today, and the second time on Tuesday. That's the background. So the president will still recommend that the matter be dealt with now. The representative, Mr Sylvi Listhaug, has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3869	I would just like to stress that, of course, the Advance Party will deal with this matter before Christmas. You also have the opportunity to do that by shifting it with one day. For us, it is important to get the information we are talking about, but that people should know what they are entitled to from 1 January, is of course crucial for us as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3874	Several have not asked for the floor, and we are going to vote. The reason for the vote is that the matter is now under consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3886	The President recalls that the rest of the vote will take place after the debate on case No. 26. At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3895	Let me first say that I am very pleased that the Storting chooses to deal with this matter as it is now available, and I believe, as I said, that it is well informed. The situation for people now is quite critical. Many are frustrated and anxious about how the private economy will develop in the future. Therefore, it is important that the Storting is clear and delivers in this case, so that you can get started to remedy the consequences of the extremely high electricity price that is. I therefore want to start by saying that I am happy that the committee has dealt with the matter quickly. I am pleased that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV have reached an agreement and an agreement on how to handle it. But the most important thing now is actually that we can help people. I believe that the scheme proposed by the government, like the system, is robust, it's well-founded, it's good, it hits everyone, and it's fair. It's important. Nor does it make the power customers who are now struggling in a difficult situation to become clients in a system. This is done in a good way, where the network rental companies, let's say, reduce the electricity bill in line with what is required from the model chosen. The model is really simple. It is that when the price exceeds 70 cents in a price range, the excess current price is covered by 55 cents. – up to 5000 kWh. It's a good handshake for the power customers and households for a very demanding time. Hafslund has already made rain samples, they've put them out today on their websites, and there's thousands of copies that are talking about for a lot of families. This will make a difference, and I'm very happy about it. So there's been a big discussion about this with power tariffs. What is being said by the majority of the Stortinget today is that one postpones the authority requirement imposed by the Solberg government in introducing power tariffs from 1 January 2022, and that we do not implement this until at least after spring 2022. The reason for this is that there is a rather strenuous situation on the electricity market and that, not least, the network operators will carry out a major societal task in dealing with this electricity support system. Then we think it is right to remove the imposed imposed in the authority requirement and the regulatory requirement imposed by the government of Solberg this summer. I want to say that this is a good arrangement, and I am very happy that we can treat it quickly in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3912	There is a broad consensus in the Storting to help people with the electricity bill at a time when the power price has never been higher. The situation is quite exceptional, and therefore it is in place with exceptional measures. At the same time, it is worth noting that the government parties and the SV have been behind for several weeks and thus contributed to increasing the uncertainty of many families that are now struggling to meet the ends due to the high electricity bills. This matter could and should have been resolved last Monday. In the supplementary proposal and the budgetary agreement between the government parties and SV, it moved to billions. The taxes were greatly increased, and the yield from Statkraft was increased to nearly 10 billion. kr. In other words, it was not on the money, but the matter was obviously not important enough. Now, fortunately, there is a broad consensus on how to contribute, and the committee has been working fast to land a position. From the right, we are concerned that the compensation must be targeted at those households that need it most. That is why we have proposed a slightly lower ceiling in the scheme, but where the level of compensation is increased instead. This will mean that more people are getting more in support, while households with the highest consumption are getting slightly less. So our proposal gives a good social profile. At the same time, we believe it is right to assist those who are now out of work, on leave, on leave, on leave or on redundancy in addition to what is in the proposed scheme. We therefore propose that a further NOK 1000 be paid on the next payment to those who are unemployed, on leave or on redundancy payments in December this year. The right is also concerned about how high electricity prices affect businesses, non-governmental organisations and other actors with high power consumption. Many in the greenhouse industry have expressed great concern, and a proposal to create a separate application-based scheme for them is being launched today. On the right, the government believes that it needs to assess the impact of electricity prices on other actors as well and quickly return to the Stortinget with proposals for possible remedial measures. We have made proposals on this in the current position and hope for broad support for this. It is also proposed that the regulation laying down a new network lease model should not enter into force this spring. This creates great uncertainty and confusion. It was only three days since the Minister of Oil and Energy decided that the scheme would come into force as planned. At the same time, nothing prevents companies from introducing a new network lease model. The regulation gives an obligation to do so, but it is within the current legislation to introduce such a model. Glitters have e.g. already operated a pilot with 83,000 customers. We are therefore at risk that quite a number of households will get a new model, while others will not get it. It does not contribute to good communication or to clarity on what is involved. In addition, SV has believed that today’s postponement is an obligation to postpone. Then they should have formulated the decision a little bit differently, because obviously that's not the case. At the same time, Energy Norway reports that for many companies it will not be possible to stop the introduction of a new network lease model from 1 January in practical and technical terms. I hope the Council of State can help to clarify the matter in the course of today's debate, and not least perhaps inform the Support Party SV about what is in today's decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3930	The President assumes that the representative will make proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3935	I bring this up with all the proposals that the Right has made.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3940	The representative Nikolai Astrup then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3945	I am pleased that the Stortinget today gathers about an effective package of measures for households. I am pleased that the government and SV now have a support scheme in place to compensate households for the extraordinary high power prices we now see. The record prices in the autumn and winter have enormous consequences for people throughout the country. It is important that the Storting takes rapid but effective action to remedy the situation. A lot of people have been worried, and we're going to take this seriously. With this scheme, the State takes 55 pst. of the electricity price charged for more than 70 øre kWh in months from December to March. We set a maximum of 5,000 kWh a month, so that we can reach a wide range, and also meet them with poor advice that has larger, but less energy-efficient houses. It's socially fair. This scheme is intended to cost around 5,5 billion. kr. In addition, we are increasing support for social assistance and housing support, and it shows that there is also cohesion policy in this. You don't have to choose between taking the kids to the movies or paying the power bill. It is also good that we ensure equal treatment for housing law laws, joint stock apartments and single dwellings. The same applies to agricultural property as well as the compensation scheme currently presented by the government for the greenhouse industry. The fact that we also ensure equal treatment for district heating customers without a connection obligation is also correct and fair. The reason why the power prices are as high as they are is because they are composed. The level of filling in Norwegian water storage plants is close to the lowest level we have seen in the last 20 years. At the same time, through the Nordic AC market and the DC cables of the EU and the United Kingdom, we are closely connected to the international power market. As gas prices on the continent and the European CO 2 price rise, electricity prices also rise in Norway. Thus, our electricity price is linked to matters and decisions taken outside of Norway’s national control and outside this house. While we are now adopting compensatory measures for the crisis that is here and now, we also need to sit down and look at what steps we can take to avoid such a crisis in the future. Then I think we have to take a step back, we have to look at the whole space of opportunity, look at what vulnerability we have, and how we ensure security of supply. There has been some debate today about the regulation that imposes power tariffs and that it should be postponed. I note that the professional organisations strongly warn against this, but I also record that the decision today was not many minutes before several large electricity companies and energy companies turned around and said they are postponing such an introduction.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3967	I have to support part of what the Right Representative said: This package that comes is coming in the last team. It's been quite a long time since these power prices were going to be high, that they were going to persist, and it's a shame that people have had to sit at home in uncertainty, in cold houses, and wait for what's going to happen. The scheme does not apply for November, and many have already received a rather high electricity bill – it will only apply from December. It is good that something is coming, but we believe that this is too little and too late. I've calculated a little bit myself: in the bill's proposition, the government's forecast is that an average price of 159 cents is expected in the first quarter for southern regions. Even with a support of 55 pst. over 70 øre, the average price per kWh will almost be one and a half kroner, plus grid rental, if this forecast is set. It's still sky high -- much higher than the people most used to, and people and businesses will be struggling. No good measures have yet been put in place for business. The business debate has been, so we hope that there will be a good order here as soon as possible. We hope we get a majority, but unfortunately I guess we don't get a majority for our proposal. We have alternatively made proposals for this proposition, which is likely to have a majority. We believe that social benefits should be paid from 50 cents and that 75 cents should be supported. of the price above, so that you give a proper support. It should also have a retroactive effect from November. The central party representative was here saying that the filling level is low. That's it, but it's because the power's going out of the country. The level of filling, the average intake and the rainfall are all on the median, it's completely average. There is nothing to suggest that we have as low a level of filling as we have, if we had taken the ceilings that the Progress Party has proposed several times, to limit and regulate the export of power. Power in Norway is important. It is vital for both consumers and business. It must be stable, it must be reasonable – and it is no longer perceived. It's supposed to be like five years ahead in time, according to the latest forecast I've seen. Our proposals are there, and they would have helped even more. I take up our proposal and hope that the other votes for the other solve the proposals, when we come to it later.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3982	The representative of Marius Arion Nilsen has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e3987	The situation we're in now, is the result of our losing control of our power. It's the market that now has people. It affects large sections of the population. The political consequences of what we are doing now — as far as I can see, everyone at Stortinget wants to go in with support measures to remedy this — testifies that one has taken the message. We can't continue like this. We can't let this be left to the market alone. We must take back democratic and political control of our power. Can this happen again? Yes. Are we going to end up in the same situation again? No, no, no. Then we'll have to catch up. What we're doing today is we're dealing with this as fast as possible. We're messing with what we can, but it's open to everyone, I think, here we need to take long-term steps, which means that we get control, so that we don't end up in the same situation again. SV has launched several suggestions along the way. We also want to come back to that. There are several major occasions beyond the spring where we want to take this up. We have raised several possible solutions: no new cables, state power, hedge funds, to get rid of the electricity companies, to let taxes on power vary by price, public ownership of wind power, etc. The essence of this is that we must now have democratic control over the power market. In that perspective, we are also very happy that we have an agreement with the government party that takes on a dimension in this, that is, the network lease, which many with good reason fear will increase the cost, at the top of the situation they are now facing. Our approach to this has been that we want as broad a solution as possible, because this is a crisis that affects most people. There we have an increase in the contribution from the state to the even household. So it's obvious that this has an impact page that's socially biased. There are some people in this community who don't know what a carton of milk costs, and it's those who know very well what it costs. For all those who wear out, we have increased the bumps significantly, which means that over 50,000 households get into the system. There is an increase in the support base today of over 60 pst. And then we have increased social assistance to the municipalities, which allows them to directly manage people who end up in this difficult situation. Overall, there is a good deal, but this is of course the beginning of a larger effort to gain democratic control of power resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e4006	The government wants money when power prices are sky-high. Then there was just a lack of any of this coming back to the households. On 23 December, 24 December, 25 December – all these dates are also due dates for the November bill. Also that bill was sky high. We owe the households more. Therefore, Red proposes to increase the overall framework of the package. If prices continue to be high and unstable, and we have every reason to believe that, the state has to contribute more. The agreed threshold of 70 ø/kWh is abnormally high. The government itself says that the average price of flow over the last decade in the same period is 33 cents, i.e. half the price. That's why Red suggests lowering the threshold to 50 cents, and the state covers 90 cents. of the bill up to a consumption of 2000 kWh and 50 pst. over 70 ears between 2000 and 5000 kWh – that is, the same model as the government, with a roof. So we're going to go into the government's solution. At the same time, we are holding on to the proposal for cash payments that we have advanced in the past, to help people with the November bills, which many get on Christmas Eve. Something must also be done in order to stop the market alignment of the energy policy that has taken place. There are, as we know, not bad weather, just bad energy policies, and Red is promoting today's proposal to assess the maximum price of electricity. We support all proposals for two-price systems, and we say no in other contexts to open the locks to the European electricity market, which leads to the import of high European electricity prices. The fact that it is to be solidarity or environmentally friendly to leave a product as important as its power is, in fact, to the market does not go along with it. Norway has a long and proud tradition of public ownership and fair distribution of power. Before that, the force was one of the foundations of the welfare state. Everyone needed electricity, and it was the government's job to distribute it at a reasonable price, both to households and to industry. We have to go back to the ideal. All social democrats have an interest in that. With this I promote our proposals in the matter. We are also going to support a number of other proposals subsidiaryly, because we believe it is important that the Storting show action and show that we will do something about the power crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e4019	Then the representative Sofie Marhaug brought up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e4024	Now that I've heard the last two speakers, I'll start by saying that the market has earned this country very well in terms of the development of our power market. It's also helped to make that we've had cheaper electricity over decades than the rest of Europe, and even in the extraordinary situation we're in now, we still have cheaper electricity than the rest of Europe. Now, if we are to take this as a reason not to have an exchange with the rest of Europe, and perhaps not to further develop the cooperation we have in Scandinavia, then the only result of this is that we have to overinvest, or invest even more, in our own power generation on our own networks in order to be robust enough. Part of the security of power and security is precisely the link with Europe and the cooperation we have in Scandinavia. So to the matter itself: like the representative Astrup from the Right, I want to say that it has taken a very long time – just like the discussion we had if we could at all deal with the matter in order to reach it before Christmas. The Government has proposed a large dividend from Statkraft in the ordinary budgetary procedure. From the Right, Left and Christian People's Party, we also had proposals in that process – but with a targeted arrangement against those who have lower wages, and those who have more family members – who could have been adopted in the Stortingen already now, so this will be late. So I think we from the Left think that the proposal that has been put forward could have been more focused on those who have the most difficulty, rather than being focused on those who consume the most. We propose to reduce the maximum price of 5000 kWh to 3000 and then give more to those with a lower consumption – or for the lower consumption. It's important that we have payments, cash payments, to those who are now in a difficult situation; it's perm, unemployed, people on redundancy pay. We suggest a cash payment of NOK 1000, which can be made immediately, especially in a situation where there are several people who are being permitted in these days. They also have power bills they have to pay. Finally, I would like to say that it is also important that we look into the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises and also the costs of many non-governmental organisations with the properties they have.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e4039	I am very pleased that the bulk of the population today agrees on a power package for all those who have been walking around and grunting for weeks and months until the day the electricity bill comes in the mailbox. This isn't a perfect arrangement, and it's not a long-term and lasting arrangement, but it's an arrangement that I think most people in this room, and those who need help pay the electricity bill, live well. The Green Party has two important points of appeal against the system we are planning to adopt. One is that it's not targeted at those who need help. The second is that it doesn't make sure that those who use the most power, because they also serve the most, save on power. That is why, together with the Right and the Left, we are promoting a proposal to lower the proposed ceiling of 5000 kWh to 3000. We also propose to increase the degree of compensation accordingly. Then they will get something more with a low and medium consumption, while with a high consumption they will get an incentive to reduce that consumption. The Green Party believes that a long-term solution must also be a fair solution, a solution that contributes to better redistribution of the increased income to the state, and is predictable regardless of whether you live in a single home in the country or in an apartment in the city. Therefore, a long-term solution should be based on a system that enters into force each time the power prices exceed a certain level. The state and the municipalities are making a lot of money on the high electricity prices through dividends from the power companies, while the tax revenue from the power sector is increasing. As a result, the Green Party has previously proposed setting up a floor for this type of income. This means that when the income exceeds such a floor, it is re-distributed by an equal amount to each resident. In our proposal, in this situation, it would give about NOK 2000 to each and every resident in the whole country. This is in addition to a strong stepping up of support for energy efficiency improvement and local energy production, for example: solar cells on their own roof. The nice thing about our solutions is that they provide an incentive for energy saving while lowering the electricity bills of ordinary people and acting in a way that is dissociating from the fact that those who have the least, relatively speaking, get the most. It's fair, it's environmentally friendly, and it's predictable for everyone. With that, I would like to address the proposal of the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e4053	The representative of Rauand Ismail has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e4058	I think it's interesting to hear the discussion also related to the longer-term challenge picture. Because although there has been a great deal of agreement in this room on the policy adopted, I think that the situation that has arisen must also make us go into it thoroughly, and I am glad that the government has also warned that a wish to look at it. I think it is absurd to follow the power trade, where one sees that one can send more quantities out of the country than one has the opportunity to import when the flow is actually cheaper sometimes in Europe. So continuing to work on that thematics also looks like a Christian People's Party. But today we are discussing the short-term solution, the acute crisis and that one should find a solution that can compensate people for the unreasonable bills we see. As both the Right and the Left have been involved, we, the three parties, had in common a separate proposal that was more focused, and on which I wish one could go further, which had gone into the salaries of people and helped more those who have lower incomes. But we have respect and understanding that it was not possible in a short time, and therefore the Christian People's Party has also chosen to support the model presented by the government, but at an adjusted rate, because the revenue of the state becomes enormous. Now we haven't, as many people have been involved here, got exact calculations yet, but we know that this contributes to big revenues for the state, maybe tens of billions more. In the Christian People's Party, we believe it is important that we have cheap electricity for business, but also for consumers, we believe it should be reasonable in Norway. That's why we're proposing to increase the compensation to 80 pst. when it's over 70 cents. I may be able to promote the proposals of the Christian People's Party now, before I forget it. 70 øre is a high power price, so if the estimates that the OED writes about in the proposition turn out, it's going to be a very high power price for consumers, even with the Christian People's Party's proposals, which goes considerably beyond what the government has proposed. The second thing we're proposing is to include November. It surprises me that the government and SV chose not to include November, nor did they choose to go further, when we know the significant income that the government receives. Together with the Right and the Left, we also promote a proposal on business compensation. I think that's important. Some fixed costs are well included in the compensation scheme, but not all are included in that scheme. It is important that the government looks at how a person should possibly get back to a compensation there, and also that one looks at how this results in volunteering. It can mean a lot to some of the organisations, church buildings, culture and different actors that will get it demanding. I'm surprised one doesn't go any further. At the same time, I'm glad that the Storting has managed to treat this so quickly, so that one gets a solution that means that at least people get some help, even if I wish it was more.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e4071	The representative of Kjell Ingolf Ropstad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e4076	The situation in the power market is exceptional, both in Norway and in the countries around us. The electricity price has increased to very high levels through late summer and autumn 2021 and has significantly increased household electricity costs. In fact, we've never seen such high prices. Although many have good finances and households generally have good savings, high electricity prices over a long period of time will be a heavy burden on the family economy of many ordinary households. The economy of ordinary people is simply not rigged for the kind of situation we're in now. In the last few weeks, the government has presented a number of measures to remedy the situation. The government promoted yesterday's proposal to the Stortinget with a proposal for a temporary law on a social security scheme for households. I'm glad that the Storting now takes it so quickly to treatment, so that people around the country can go to the Christmas meeting with certainty that they can lower their shoulders a little. The purpose of the scheme is to compensate households for exceptionally high electricity prices. The objective is that the scheme will enter into force with effect for power consumption in December 2021, and the social benefit will be reflected in the electricity bill of households in January 2022. It is proposed that the scheme applies to electricity consumption up to and including the end of March 2022. Then the last settlement on the invoice will be in April 2022. The scheme is proposed to enable the government to pay a share of the household’s electricity costs above a certain level, calculated on the basis of an average monthly price in the electricity spot market. In the setting that has been presented, it is said that you should give 55 pst. over 70 ear, up to 5000 kWh. I thought I would say: I said at a press conference on Saturday that for a household in a single dwelling that uses 3,280 kWh in December, the scheme could mean a support of NOK 1,025 for this month. If you increase to 55 pst, it becomes $1128, and for an apartment, it becomes an increase from 418 kroner to 459 kroner – provided that we use a price like in the calculations here, where an example price of power in South Norway for December is equal to 120 cents per kilowatt hour. This means that the change in compensation amount to NOK 103 extra in December for a normal one-dwelling apartment and NOK 41 extra in December for a normal one-dwelling apartment. What's fine with this scheme is that if the power prices increase even higher, the compensation rate increases, and if the power prices fall, the compensation rate is also lower. It's a fair arrangement where we go directly into the price ranges that apply, and we help people with the bill. I am pleased that the Stortinge takes this arrangement for treatment today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e4087	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e4092	It was only a few days since the Council of State stated, or wrote, in a reply to the Storting that it was not advisable to postpone a new model for network rental. Can the Council of State respond to what has changed on these two days which makes it advisable to change the timing of the introduction of a new network lease model? Let me also follow up with a question whether the Council of State agrees with SV that there is reason to persecute the legality of companies that choose to introduce this model from New Year even if the regulation is postponed?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e4099	Network companies need to provide sufficient and good information to customers before any changes to the network lease are introduced. My impression is that the network companies have seen the importance of this and communicate quite well with the customers. A majority of the Committee on Energy and the Environment agrees that the requirements for power-based tariffs in the distribution system shall not enter into force on 1 January 2022. Therefore, there is no obligation for the transmission system companies to introduce differentiated fixed links based on the effect from the year-on-year period. The network companies may continue to differentiate the fixed network path according to the effect in line with the applicable legislation. The use of power, i.e. the simultaneous use of electricity, is expected to increase as society electrifies, and development leads to the need for more capacity in the mains. Power-based tariffs may help to streamline the use of electricity in such a way that the capacity of the mains power grid is better used and thus network investment does not exceed what is necessary. So now is... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e4106	I didn't realize that I got an answer to the question: what has changed in the last two days that makes what was not advisable two days ago, now is advisable? I am pleased that the Council of State is concerned with good information to consumers about the consequences of the introduction of a new network lease model. All the companies have now sent out this information to their customers. Does the Council of State mean that it will be transparent for customers when some companies are going to introduce a new network lease model on 1 January, while others are postponing – and thus confusion and chaos around which regime you belong to? Is this good information for customers? And what makes it advisable now to postpone a scheme that was not advisable to postpone two days ago?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e4113	As I said, it is such that no obligation is imposed on the network companies to introduce differentiated fixed links based on the effect from New Year's onwards. But it still means – as it is today – that it is up to the network companies to decide whether they want to differentiate fixed in line with current legislation. I have previously heard the representative Astrup tell about the network companies that have already done this, so it will not be a change in relation to the way it is today. But this must be in line with the current legislation; then there is an opportunity to do so. But it's no longer an obligation. I believe that the position of the Energy and Environment Committee is also about having the opportunity to concentrate on what is an important cooperation with the network companies – namely to implement this system where the payment to the customer is to be made on the invoice of the network companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e4120	Energy Norway has today been out there and it is clear that too many of the companies will be too late to reverse the decision to introduce a new network rental model from 1 January. Is the Council of State in agreement with Energy Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e4125	It will probably vary from a network company to a network company. I have registered that, among other things: Lights have said that they want to do this, so it'll probably vary.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e4131	The Swedish Government then confirmed that SV had either gone to a proper place of stomach, or that they had been tricked into trouble. So what this means is that some of the power customers in Norway are going to pay a running-time charge on electricity from 1 January, which in turn means that for normal power usage, you are going to be punished with even higher costs. These are many families that have already been pushed hard. Governments were also involved in electrification and there is a need for increased capacity in the mains power supply. We know that a lot of parties in this room are eager to send renewable electricity onto our oil platforms, which means increased costs for Norwegian power customers. Does the Council of State really think it is right to go further with this electrification when we know that there are common people in Norway who are going to get even higher electricity costs as a result of it?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e4138	Obviously, perhaps the representative Listhaug has a narrow view of what electrification is, and what society really is facing in the years to come, but what we're talking about, is that we're going to be able to achieve the goals we've set ourselves in the Paris Agreement, our whole society is going to be electrified. It happens by using electric vehicles, it happens in the form of developing new, green industry, among other things. power-intensive industry producing hydrogen and ammonia. We have a number of areas of society to electrify, and the need for power is quite great. What is the most important means of achieving precisely those objectives is to expand capacity in terms of transmission capacity, so that we get the power to where we need it in the country, where we are going to build new industry, new jobs, not least along the coast of the West, where both I and the representative come from. It is important that we manage to achieve those objectives, and that is what electrification is primarily about.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e4143	It is not this representative's party that has a narrow view of this, because what it is about is to decorate Norwegian emission statistics. For the world's climate, it doesn't matter if we're doing this electrification. The government has had the whole harvest to deal with a power crisis that we've seen for a long time. The progress party was already out in August and said that this could become a matter. We have seen that the government has been negotiating with SV without coming back with a single measure to remedy the situation. Then you've been sitting down and working on blasts for days, and what you come back with is an agreement that gives Norwegian power customers back 5.7 billion. kr, whereas the State will deposit between 30 and 40 billion. kr. Do governments think people out there are the most satisfied? Those who sit and freeze are worried about Christmas when they see which crumbs the government should send out to them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e4148	We have put forward a system that historically returns billions to Norwegian consumers again, precisely because we have an extraordinary situation. The bill is probably more comprehensive than the representative says, because we have also reduced the electricity charge. We also have increased housing support, we have increased scholarships, and we have increased loan frameworks for students. In addition, we have today presented a package for greenhouses and gardening. However, it is clear that many households, many Norwegian consumers, will have far more with the proposal we have made than with the cash support proposal to the Progress Party, which was NOK 4000. Maybe the problem is that we did more in eight weeks than the previous government did in eight years for Norwegian power customers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e4153	I will also ask about the rush time charge, which Red has talked a lot about all this autumn – that the new network rental is unfair and hits poorly. Households with low consumption are often penalised. It is also very often households in blocks, in joint societies, etc., who also have low incomes, who are penalised by this scheme. It's not accurate, it's not that environmentally friendly, but it will lead to a lot of people having to pay more in electricity. That's the other thing than me that's figured out. Then I am very happy to see that many network companies say that they will drop the new network lease. It turns out it's not that complex. It turns out that it is not always the way to push the entire bureaucracy over to ordinary households. Many of these companies are also publicly owned, and my question is whether the Council of State has made direct contact with public owned network companies to abandon this scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e4160	The Ministry has had quite extensive contacts, including: with RME, during these weeks that have passed. We have asked RME to assist with this scheme, where we are going to use the online companies to pay out a historically high amount to Norwegian power customers, which I really hope can help people there at home. This means that Norwegian consumers will have a significant reduction in online leasing costs in the coming months. In the case of power-based tariffs, it has been possible to introduce this – i.e. in the current legislation – but the previous government has promoted a regulatory change that was due to enter into force on 1 January. So now it's exposed. Then we get back to how we handle it, and we – the Consumer Minister Kjersti Toppe and the undersigned – will have a meeting with the online companies already on Monday.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e4167	First I get to say that stopping the emissions from gas power plants on the socket is a climate action. So to the network tariffs: I am now recording that it is not stopped with power tariffs, but it is not imposed either. There is no doubt that we need to have power tariffs that avoid having too much expenditure in the network in the years to come. At the same time, we need to have a network lease that facilitates and contributes to energy savings, and that also contributes to the increased use of solar power in Norwegian homes. With regard to the six-month period in which this is not to be imposed, will the Council of State then consider how we balance those objectives as best as possible and whether adjustments need to be made in this respect?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e4172	First of all, I just want to say that I share Elvestuen's opinion that electrifying and cutting emissions on a Norwegian base obviously helps to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and achieve our objectives. But since the representative asks, I think that this extraordinary situation we've now been in at high power prices, and the fact that we're presenting a system we've never had before, suggests that it's important that we evaluate the time we're in, also considering that we need to reduce power consumption. We can save significantly, and in the state budget, which has also been discussed today, this is among other things. agreement that we should reduce by 10 tWh through energy efficiency improvement. Of course I'll go into that issue and take this further. It's important for us to be able to make effective use of the power that we have at our disposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e4179	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e4184	There's been some network lease experts in this room every now and then, who come up with pretty blatant statements that that's the way it is. I'm a little surprised because it's a pretty complicated system. I don't understand it at all, but it's a regulatory authority that can, and then there's someone in the power companies that can. It is a rather complex and complicated system – and it's passed through. If we transfer power tariffs to my area, I'll save some rent in winter, and then I'll pay a little bit more in summer. I think most people really are in that situation. Now that we have said that we are postponing the authorities' obligation to oblige the network companies to do so, it is because there is a rather demanding, unbridled situation in the power market for customers. We think it's natural to wait just that, just on the basis of that situation. At the same time, the network companies shall manage the power support system that is so important for people to be helped right now. That's why we're doing it. Otherwise, it's a lot wise to have power tariffs to exploit investments already made, but it's quite essential that we don't now interfere with what's happening, and make people around the country even more frustrated because they don't understand anything – although someone here in the hall apparently understands just how to calculate the rent, I don't think they're actually doing it. So to be in the back, it's okay to disagree with the plan, it's okay to think that we're giving too little. But when it comes to using a rhetoric that one is too far behind, that one is too late: From day one the government has a roof over the power costs of households – first reducing the electricity charge, then with housing support, then with social assistance, then with student support, then with even more attention and now this power support system, which is a pioneer work. It's a whole new system that's going to be established, a system that we thought maybe didn't really go into managing so easily. That's what we got. It is robust, credible, verifiable and treats all alike. This government is not at all in the back of this question. It's ahead, and it meets the time that's ahead of us now. That's the situation. So I can accept that someone will give even more money. There are people who as soon as they're out of government offices, at all, don't know the difference of a million and a billion. We live well with that, but I think one should – in the name of justice – look at the model that exists and accept it. It's actually a unanimous committee, and that's why I think it's very strange that one of those degrees uses words about how far behind one is in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e4197	The sheriff of Nottingham would have been envious of the government that is now sitting. You have a But you look like a pale Robin Hood-- 5-6 billion. kr is what you give back. The Minister of Finance and the Workers' Party-Center Party government are more involved in taxes, taxes and VAT from people than could be expected at all. And then it sounds like you're so kind, because now you're going to give 55 pst. back to what's over 70 cents - 70 cents plus VAT. What matters to people out there is how much it costs for each one. Then it's okay to have some history with you. Last November the price was 6.24 øre including VAT, and it was 26.77 øre in December last year. This means that before this happens, you're going to have almost three times what you paid at power prices last year – before you get 45 pst. Discount. Unfortunately – because I had actually thought that SV meant something about ‘ordinary people’; ordinary people working in grocery stores, ordinary public employees and others, people who might have just one income and who really notice this on the body – there was no good help in what came in this comparison with SV. There was really a mockery at very many people out there who are going to wear out, and who are very concerned about what this is going to mean for the wallet. But it may not be so strange, because we know that just three to four weeks ago, SV suggested that you increase the electricity charge again, so this might be just a game for people. And with that presented here, the current is going to be pig. At the latest today, this afternoon, I received a message and a heart attack from a mother with a son who had gone on a daily allowance, and got some money, but who earned 300 kroner too much and thus loses his living allowance, which the government has stood and boasted of how great would be for those who have the least. He loses the housing allowance of NOK 1650, and he may not get so much pleasure from what came today, either. Then I agree that you should treat things quickly and efficiently – I think that’s good – but it would have been nice to wait another day, so that the government had managed to present what they’re actually coming with, and not like today when you don’t manage it, you’re in the back and expect to have to deal with it urgently without getting a proper, proper and thorough treatment in the Storting. Now it's going to be a little bit... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e4211	That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e4216	I read on Europower energy.no before I came in here now to join the debate on this proposition, that the maximum price cap on electricity in Europe seems to be being blown up. It seems to have to be raised from 31 kroner per kWh – no, I did not mean a penny, 31 kroner per kWh – to 41 kroner per kWh. That is the situation in Europe now. That's why we're taking up these power cables. Yes, historically they have served us well, but historically Europe also had a sensible energy and climate policy, in which they had adjustable power and did not go entirely berserk by 80 pst. variable force. They have now closed down several nuclear power plants in Germany; they will shut down more in winter; they will close down more in winter – nuclear power plants producing large amounts of energy needed by a Germany in a power crisis. Instead, they draw electricity and power from the rest of Europe, including us, and we see the result now, a combination of a climate policy out of control and an energy policy out of control. 41 kroner per kWh – then there is not much business left in Norway, nor can people afford to heat up their house. That's what's the big difference between Europe and Norway, too. Europe also has gas, they have other sources of energy. Norway has power. Hydropower has historically been a good thing in Norway, and industry, a powerful industry, has been located where there has been hydropower – not necessarily where there have been the most people and the most central, but where there has been a short way to power. It is one of the prerequisites that Norway has been a powerful industrial nation: clean, renewable, stable and reasonable force. That's what we're going to do now. That's why we say you have to look at these foreign tables, you have to look at these export agreements. Then one comes to the conclusion that network and network rental could be difficult. Yeah, that's right. The web is also difficult. This shall be connected, this shall be harmonious, and there shall be as much power consumed as that produced. Europe is now moving towards people being able to consume when the current is produced, and not as Norway has historically had it, that we produce the current when we need it. So we have to start taking a hot shower when the wind blows, because that's when there's enough power. This system and this way don't want the Progress Party to be on. That is why we believe that we need to look at regulation of these agreements, and not least we need to lower the electricity charge and VAT, so that people have a reasonable electricity price this winter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e4225	The crisis we now find ourselves in, swirling in the wallets of ordinary people. Recently I read in my locality, Kragerø Blade, about Melina, who sleeps in the living room with the oven on to save electricity. We could also read in the media about Jannike, who bought used furniture at finn.no to fire them. This is not a country far, far away. This is Norway in 2021. I'm probably not the only one in this room who's been cleaned up with e-mails, messages and telephones in the last days, weeks and months about how insensitive the situation actually is. Red supports all helpful measures. That is why we support both proposals in a subsidiary way. 9 and 10 today, to expand housing support and increase the allocation of social assistance. It's important. But we've also fought a couple of times in this hall to ensure that the extraordinary payment of housing aid is not deducted from other benefits. There we have, so far, only received support from some other parties, but not from the government. The current crisis we are now facing affects us all, including those who do not benefit from social assistance or qualify for housing support, but ordinary people with low and even very common incomes. Nevertheless, Red believes that the housing support must be extended permanently, for there is every reason to believe that there will be several cold winters with associated high power prices. At the same time, we need to take much more political control of the crisis we are in in the future, in order to rule out it. We can't let people freeze in their homes, pay record electricity bills and at the same time fill the surplus account of the state. This is the people who have paid the price for it, and then it must also benefit the people. Obviously, government parties have argued that many of this money is being used for good action. With all due respect, I'm not against free SFO either, it's great. But when the state has received tens of billions of dollars, we have to expect a little more back to the wallets of ordinary people than the ones – excuse me for saying – the crumbs that are being distributed here. That's why it's not enough what's coming today. Red had expected far more. But we're going to continue to fight forward for a much fairer power and power policy, even for ordinary people, which this government at least rhetorically says they're busy with.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e4240	I am pleased, because it is the politicians in this Chamber and not the regulators in the NVE alone who decide on energy policy in Norway. In fact, I think we should have gone far beyond the energy policy in Norway. It is quite right that I am not an expert, but what politicians get, which the regulatory authorities do not get in the same way, is told by people that, for example. The electricity rush-time charge is going to be unfair. There's a lot of people who've figured it out, and then you can make them laugh. But there are in fact 14 industry and environmental organisations that have repeatedly contacted the Committee and the Council of State and asked for this network to be postponed. It's everything from the Naturverkverbundet to the Norwegian Heat Pump Association. I don't remember the name of all the organizations, but there are a number of very common people and a number of organizations that are opposed to this rush-time charge on electricity, because they see that it is neither environmentally friendly nor especially socially fair. So what I don't understand is why the government doesn't want to take greater ownership of this. It's a joy thing. Why, in all days, should we insist on introducing a system that the government of Solberg has put in place in its time? There is nothing that a Workers' Party-Center Party government should be proud of or satisfied with. It would be better to boast about this and tell people that now we are dropping the increase in the rent that would otherwise potentially zero the cut-offs in the electricity charge that you have otherwise boasted of introducing from now on. 1 January. So my call to the government is to have a little bit more confidence and throw this in as a victory, because that's what it is. We in Red are very pleased that this is being implemented. If it turns out that the network companies are opposed, we need to be clear that the highest nationally elected level in Norway should have something to say about the facility of the network rental in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e4251	Let me explain to the representative Marhaug that the purpose of the new network lease is not to demand more network rental. That's to prevent us from getting more network rental in the future. Let me take an example of that. If everyone in the Drammen goes to the electric car, and they plug in the electric car when they get home at 1:00 p.m. 17 from work, we have to double the capacity of the network in Drammen. It costs billions. If they choose to charge at night instead, we don't have to do any reinforcements in the net. It saves consumers billions of dollars, and that's what this is all about. So the representative of Aasland says that he does not understand the bearing of the new network lease, while the Council of State of Mjøs Persen says that good information has been given about the new network lease structure. Then I'll get to C.J. Hambro's word that any representative is free to express the confusion that reigns in his head at all times. Then I thought of the representative Aasland. There is no doubt that the Workers' Party and the Centre have now contributed to creating confusion. The headline in Europower right now is ‘Extreme chaos at Stortinget: Very fuzzy signals about new network leases’. It is a fact that with the operation that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV are now doing, there are some who will get new online rentals from 1 January, others who will not get it, and there will be doubts about what is going on. That situation has contributed to the creation of these parties themselves. So to the representative of Aasland, who insists that the government has not been behind this case. Well, you put forward an additional proposition, and you moved billions without providing a system that helped consumers with the high power bills. You negotiated a budget settlement last Monday, where you moved in billions of dollars without giving priority to helping ordinary people in this whole country that we're so excited about, with the power bill. If it's not to be in the back, I don't know what the definition of "back" is, because it's quite obvious that the government has dragged its legs behind it, and SV has not chosen to give priority to ordinary people and their electricity bills in their plans. When you first put forward a plan, you give a premium to those who have the highest consumption, and to those who have the most from before. I think that's a wrong priority. Instead, we should give even more to those who have a lower consumption, so that those who need the most, come out better. But this chaos has thus been created by the representative of Aasland and his party traps and colleagues in the Senterpartiet and SV. New network rentals – they are most self-inflicted – and they themselves have to take responsibility for having been behind them all this autumn and creating uncertainties for ordinary people who are struggling to get ends to meet, and do not know how to pay the electricity bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e4266	It's good that we're going to have a compensation scheme adopted before Christmas, so that people know a little bit more about how the electricity bills will turn out. What surprises me is that the majority parties do not take into account business and non-profit institutions and, through them, take into account ordinary people. Forgetting business will mean a sharp increase in the price of all powerful goods, such as food. There's a lot of electricity being used to produce vegetables in the greenhouse, and I think the bakery, the dairy and the butcher use a lot of electricity. The electricity price will be followed by more expensive goods. I am particularly surprised that the Progress Party does not agree with the proposal for a system that ensures a hard-pressed business life. It's good that Red is with the Right, Left and Christian People's Party on the minority proposal to compensate business. The production of artificial snow and the heating of areas for non-profit institutions is not vital, but it is a good and important public health measure, not least now that the corona isolates us. It's a shame that only the Right, Left and Christian People's Party is behind the proposal to take care of the ideal organizations.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e4273	I would like to say first that we are going to support proposal No. 1, point 2 and No 4, as well as our own. For the business community: it is very important, as the previous speaker said, that this is rather precarious for both horticulture and other industries. What they're getting from the government is just a little bit of a little bit, given that there's already a sky high price, and they're going to be very hard-pressed. But to the very things and the system itself and what the government is trying to spend now to people, that they should cut half the price and everything there: one forgets that the level of 70 cents is double the price of what has our usual price of power in Norway for a long, long time – double the price. And 50 pst. above that leads to a triple and quadruple price, with the prices that we have today. It's the realities that people have to struggle with now before Christmas, and they'll be struggling with the whole winter. We in the Progress Party have said that 50 cents should be an entry point, and that we have to cover 75 pst. over it. That's when it's really monar for everyone, also for gardeneria and some others, to a greater extent than what it's doing today. So I have to say it like this: when I think about power prices in Norway, it's like thinking about the Center Party, the Labour Party and SV sending some people into my garden, and then they can bear with them a hundred apples. And then, after taking a hundred apples, they say I'm going to get back 10-15 apples, some few apples. That's what you're doing. One takes between 30 and 40 billion. kr extra on the sky-high power prices, and then say one to the Norwegian people: Yes, we'll be so kind as to give you five, six, seven, eight, nine – it doesn't matter. But that's just one-third, maybe, or one-fourth of what's the basis, what's taken in. When one is in debates with representatives from these three parties, they talk about how hard it is to finance what is to be taken in, and what is to be re-distributed. Then we think back about these apples, because there's actually a way to make it visible. This room must never forget who we are for: we are to manage the best money for the inhabitants. That's what made me say yes to sitting in this room, and then I think we actually have to do that. When will this hall begin to take power back? If the Storting decides that we're going to cut that system on-line over New Year's, it's as much as we're going to be able to stop the cable out of the country. When Sweden does it to us, but we can't do it to Europe: when are we going to take power back in this room?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e4288	Whole Europe is in an extreme situation due to high gas prices. The previous government, and the Storting, committed us to a system where the price is seen in the way he is now. When the energy message comes, we'll have to do a really thorough discussion about how to do this in a different way. So we've picked a 100 pst. market-based system, and that's what's ruining us now, not just in Norway. One has to raise your eyes a little bit and not just talk about apples. Those who agreed to make these agreements must take responsibility for the fact that this is the consequence, something that must be warned of when they were entered into. What have we done now? We've negotiated with the government to get a wider system, a system that embraces more, and that has a higher frame. When it's going to be between 30 and 40 billion. That goes into the state, I think I have to count it more precisely. For public ownership, municipality, state and state, extra costs have also been incurred due to high electricity prices. The government's proposal for a power package was $4.6 billion. kr. SV has been unpacked with 1.125 billion. kr. That's 200 million. to the municipalities, to go to social assistance to secure those who are most in need. It's not true that this doesn't mean a protection for those who need it the most, as Right claims. That's 465 million. In addition, in January, February and March, following the Government, 50 000 more were eligible for aid. 460 million. kr is increasing the compensation to all by increasing the level of high electricity prices covered by the government from 50 pst. to 55 pst. 118 million. kr is taken to stand for December. This is hard to put in place in the next hour, because no one would have thought it would go like that, but it's been like this. Now I think the Storting is going to gather, and that we're going to work together with the energy message, put in place proper, lasting limits on market forces, so that we protect society from these huge prices that we've been charged by the system that Storting here has been in and committed to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e4301	When the Progress Party, with the representative Hoksrud, goes to a Robin Hood rhetoric, I'm surprised. Then I have to ask, doesn't the Progress Party have a seat in government for seven of the last eight years? Where, then, were the measures for ordinary people? And where were the funds for ordinary people? Did the funds perhaps disappear into wealth taxes for the richest? What measures has the Progress Party taken to improve everyday life for ordinary people? We're all upset about the stories people tell us, and it's just these voices and the stories that make the government now come up with these measures. In the future, we need to work even more closely to solve these problems. When Red chooses to call the actions small, it may indicate that Red has not fully understood what these actions actually mean for ordinary people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e4308	There's been a nice and long debate about power all day. What I may have reacted most to is this remarkable belief that we have an extraordinary situation. There's nothing to suggest that this is something extraordinary; it's the new normal. And that's a result of the climate hysteria and the belief in the fine, green shift, for what do we know, and what do all have -- it comes in Prop. 44 L for 2021-2022 also – now accepted? Indeed, the price of electricity is driven by a market on the Nord Pool Stock Exchange, where there is supply and demand for electricity – both in the spot market and in the future market – that governs. Looking at the underlying causes, electricity production in Europe has fallen. Nuclear power stations in Germany are closed and more will be closed. Coal power plants in the United Kingdom are closed and mines are partially closed. Solar, but especially wind, and what we have learned now, and as the International Energy Agency, the IEA, says today, is that when it blows little in Germany, France, Italy and the United Kingdom, you have to rely on the supply of electricity from Sweden and Norway – from Sweden as long as they have nuclear power. There are no plans to build new, large power generation plants in Europe, except for wind, but they cannot be used when it does not blow. Coal prices are sky high because India and China are building new coal power plants. It is clear that when the supply of electricity goes down, and the demand actually stays at the same level or rises, there is no reason to believe that prices in April and May will fall. We have a new normal, and therefore all the parties here now have to discuss how we can repair the system. We can fight about who made mistakes five, ten, fifteen or twenty years ago, but how can we get a system that ensures Norwegian consumers and businesses access on reasonable electricity? It is an advantage on the part of nature and we must preserve it. The production costs of our current are probably between 5 and 15 øre per kilowatt hour, and now we pay NOK 1.50 or NOK 2. We need to look at the whole system and how we can ensure Norwegian consumers and Norwegian companies access on a sustainable basis on a reasonable basis, as we had in the past, regardless of market conditions in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e4321	I forgot something instead, because I took the word again. The representative of Birgit Oline Kjerstad, from SV, reminded me of that. She realized that it was the high gas prices in Europe that made us in the current price situation we are today. No, that's why gas prices are high, which is why. And that's, as the representative Hagen quite rightly said a little bit, the climate and environmental hysteria, and it's a villa and definite policy. There are a lot of parties in this room that would like to send our water force out on the base to electrify him. The last time today, the NVE director was out there warning against it, because there would be empty power cables on land and little capacity in the Bergen area. We have to start thinking a little bit about Norway and what we need. Have you thought that these environmental and climate products should go so far that we're going to drain all the electricity in Norway, and that only we're going to get it sent out of the country, are these difficult things? There is something I wonder about: we talk in many debates about how important it is to prevent the deflagration of Norwegian industry and business. It is not then an advantage to make it profitable to establish itself in Norway, and rather to get industry from Sweden, Denmark, Finland and other European countries to move here and establish themselves here, because we can offer them for example. cheap force? Imagine if we had thought that thought! Instead, we see that Europe, with countries like Germany and England, is throwing its batteries – and Norway is going to be the battery to Europe. It's almost impossible to hear it. Europe is throwing its batteries, and we in Norway are going to be the battery to Europe. At the same time, we're going to electrify the socket, run clean water power onto our platforms, and send the gas to Europe, which they use to produce power. I also asked a question to the Council of State as to whether it could guarantee that there was no energy from coal-fired power plants or gas-fired power stations that entered the lines from abroad, into Norway and out on the platforms, but it could not. Norway has to be the battery for Europe – and Europe is throwing the battery. I think we have more than enough to catch up with our own country, and I'm actually quite happy that there are representatives here in the Chamber who have said that I'm so busy with the nation of Norway. I'm actually very proud of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e4335	The representative Nikolai Astrup has spoken twice and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e4340	Would believe what Anders Lange had thought about today's progress party's view of price mechanism? I will not dwell too long on that, because I drew myself in the bottom line of the representative Kjerstad, who says that there are decisions made in the last period, by the previous government, which means we are in the mess we are now. That's not right. We talked about this earlier today as well: there has been a broad political consensus in this room over the last 30 years about the energy system that we have built, and it has served us well. The electricity price was higher from 1980 to 1990 than it was from 1990 to 2020, and I heard no one in this room complain that the market had taken over our power last year when the electricity price was 11 cents. We must keep our heads cold and warm, we must not throw waste on everything we have built up in the last 30 years, but we must correct where necessary, and of course we must help people in the extraordinary situation we are in now, because – and that is to the representative Hagen – that is an extraordinary situation. Volue Insight has estimated that the electricity price would have been 40–50 centimetres in Norway this fall if it had not been for gas prices and CO 2 prices in Europe right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e4348	I hope we can end this debate now. We can have a long and broad energy and climate debate. It can always be interesting as long as we get climate negators, market denigrators and others into the debate – which in particular the Progress Party has emerged as in recent times. But I now choose to focus on the matter, just to put in place a support system that helps people in a very demanding and strenuous situation in terms of high electricity prices. I'm very happy that we get a majority for the proposal that we have now, that we get a strong support system that means something to people, and that we in the Stortinget too, regardless of a slightly different approach to this, have a very cohesive conclusion that the system that is chosen at the bottom actually stands. I thank you for the debate and hope that we can soon adopt something that matters to people. And then I'm looking forward to the continuation of the climate and energy policy debates, which may be going on for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e4357	I'm not going to spend another 3 minutes, but I and the representative of Astrup are some of the things that Storting has said about. So now the Storting has to deal with the energy message, and then we have to take a close look at this. What's going on today is the urgent arrangement for compensating those who are currently struggling with the current calculation. For the sake of order: Grete Wold in SV suggested that such a system had to be in place already in October. It was voted down.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e4364	I just can't wait to hear the case rapporteur. So he stood in the debate and said that this was a system that people would be happy for. Now I remember – if you read emails from ordinary people around this country – that this is not something people are very happy about. I'm very worried. It is believed that what the government is now going to do is too bad, it does not come as the President-in-Office and the Council of State claim here. That's why the Progress Party is concerned about this. We wanted to get a really good and proper round on this. It's actually about the everyday life of ordinary people in this country, and we're concerned about the consequences for them. So here's a state that's going to go into 30-40 billion. kr and give 5-6 billion. kr back to people. I understand why the case rapporteur and the Labour Party want us to finish, that we should not discuss this here any more, because you really realize that this is a bad arrangement for a lot of people out there. The progress party will still have to fight to remove VAT, reduce electricity taxes, provide a cash support that would mean something to people now before Christmas. That's what this is all about. That is why I think what the government is bringing is too bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e4371	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 26.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e4384	Then Stortinget is ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e4393	Case No. 1-11 is the second reading of legislative acts and includes legislative acts 11 to 21 There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e4404	Case No. 12 is the second reading of the law and applies to the decision of the law 22. During the debate, Mr Kaski presented a proposal on behalf of the Financial Committee. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The legislative decision is not accepted. Note: Under I, the following provision is assumed to be amended as follows: the second sentence of Section 5-1, second paragraph, is replaced by the following: The payment period for accrued and life-long benefits may be reduced to the number of full years necessary for the total annual old-age pension to be about 30 per cent of the basic amount of the population's pension.»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e4421	The legislative decision, with the opinion adopted, will be set up until the third reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e4430	Case No. 13–18 is the second reading of the law and covers legislative decisions 23 to 28 years. There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e4444	A total of 29 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Frank Edvard Sve on behalf of the Progress Party and the Greens the proposals No 2 and 24–27, from Frank Edvard Sve on behalf of the Progress Party the proposals No 3-10, from Sofie Marhaug on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA the proposals No 11–21, 23 and 28, from Rauand Ismail on behalf of the Greens proposal No 22, from Terje Aasland on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 29, from Sofie Marhaug on behalf of Red Proposal No. 22, from Terje Aasland on behalf of the Workers' Party, will be replaced by the VII of the nomination under Framework Area 13. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 11, 13, 15, 16, 19, 20 and 23, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked to use future concession treatment to ensure that the development of wind power on land does not lead to a deterioration in the nature or deterioration of indigenous rights.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a natural tax on land use to limit the degradation of Norwegian nature and to return to Stortinget with a proposal in connection with the State budget for 2023.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government to require municipalities to make visible and assess the climate impacts of all relevant policy-making issues.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: «The government is asked by the government to require municipalities to remove all fossil emissions from their own activities by 2025.» Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The Government is requesting immediate follow-up to the decision of the Storting to ensure equal treatment of biogas vehicles with zero-emission vehicles on toll-funded routes.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess the conversion of the current tariff system in order to facilitate the increased development of high-speed rail in the districts.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The Government requests the postponement of the regulation on power-based tariffs intended to enter into force on 1 January 2022 and to return to the Stortinget with proposals for a network lease model which is simpler for consumers and which stimulates increased energy efficiency’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e4515	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 17, 18, 21 and 28, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure more accurate climate statistics for municipalities, which will be published in the following calendar year.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asking for follow-up to the decision of the Storting to facilitate a faster application process for gas distributors applying for investment aid for filling stations at Enova, and to immediately improve Enova’s support system for filling stations and the purchase of heavier biogas vehicles.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is asking the charging industry for more user-friendly solutions for electric drivers, such as better signage, clearer pricing, reduced downtime, simpler payment solutions and fast charging stations with toilet facilities.’ Proposal 28 reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to assume that the principle consequence of the Supreme Court judgment of 11 October 2021, HR-2021-1975-S is that the wind turbines at Storheia and Roan must be brought down in order to ensure that the rights of reindeer holders of the Sami reindeer to cultural activities can be satisfied by the restoration of the reindeer pastures’. Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e4551	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 12 and 14 from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to draw up a plan showing the potential for small-scale wind power generation in ports, industrial areas and other areas where wind power can be expanded without conflicting with nature considerations and indigenous rights, including assessing adjusted distance requirements for lower turbines in such areas, and returning to the Stortinget by the end of 2022 at the latest.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that all municipalities and county councils have their own committed, politically adopted climate budget as a governance document.’ The left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e4575	President! The left would not support these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e4580	So let's do this one again.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e4593	There is a vote on proposal No. 29, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to stop all ongoing and planned wind power deployment.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e4608	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3–7, 9 and 10, from the Green Party and the Green Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for sufficient State aid for Fortum Oslo Heat to enable CCS on the Klemetsrud system to start up in 2023 and to be implemented as quickly as possible.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a national natural account and its natural budget, with the objective of zero net natural loss by 2025, the natural position by 2030 and 20 pst. [[measured in the state and prevalence]] improvement by 2050.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to complete and introduce pledge arrangements for several types of disposable products, which are for cans and bottles today.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a plan for phase-out of fossil gas for heating’. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate and propose to prohibit the export of unsorted household waste.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to return to Stortinget with a bill prohibiting the destruction of ants.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking to make the climate rate a permanent scheme by 2030, with annual escalation.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e4656	There is a vote on proposal No. 8 from the Green Party and the Green Group in the European Parliament. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit a plan for the objective of protecting 10 pst. Norwegian forest may be reached by 2030.» The right and the left have notified consent to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e4673	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to consider transferring responsibility for the Directorate of Mineral Management from the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries to the Ministry of Oil and Energy.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e4688	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 25–27, from the Party of Advancement. Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to establish a compensation scheme for outsourced industries that are hard hit by the power crisis that compensates for the excessive increase in current costs. The scheme shall be submitted to the Stortinget at the beginning of January with effect from the exceptional costs incurred as from November 2021.» Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government requests that transmission system companies not introduce a new model for network rental from 1 January 2022, which implies, inter alia, a charge for running time for the use of electricity during the period of the day.’ Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The Government immediately requests the use of paragraph 12 of Statnett’s concession terms for the organisation of power exchanges via external NordLink and North Sea Link cables with the aim of limiting net power exports in order to improve the current power situation and ensure sufficient power reserves over the winter months.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e4718	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 by the Group of the Greens/European Progressive Democrats and the Greens/European Greens/European Free Alliance. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked by the Government to require Statnett to use alternative two for the renewal of the link between Hamang in Bærum and Smestad in Oslo, as part of the Oslo Network.’ [[cable in ditch]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e4733	There is a vote on proposal No. 24, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests the postponement of the introduction of a new network lease model notified from 1.1.2022 until a new impact assessment on what this will mean for households and business has been carried out and submitted to the Stortinget.’ The Greens and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e8306	All Roman numerals and Roman numerals and Roman numerals, except VII, shall be vottered above A Framework Area 12. Behind the setting are the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Red Party, the Left Party, the Green Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e8322	There is a vote on proposal No. 22, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘VII The mandate to enter into commitments The size consents to the Ministry of Climate and Environment in 2022 being able to impose commitments for future years to purchase material and to pledge grants in excess of the appropriations allocated under Chapters. 1420 The Environment Directorate, posts 39, 69 and 79 Clean-up measures, but so that the overall framework for new commitments and old responsibilities does not exceed 113.3 million. crowns.’» The Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e8339	President: I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e8344	That is when we vote on proposal No. Twenty-two again.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e9250	President! The Socialist Left should have voted in favour of proposal No. Twenty-eight in case 19.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e9255	It'll be listed in the record.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e10251	A total of 13 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-12, by Arne Olav Haabeth, on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA proposal No 13, from Sivert Bjørnstad on behalf of the Progress Party Proposal No. 12 has been converted into a transmission proposal in the course of the debate. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government specify in Sections 3 to 6 of the Regulation for the completion and implementation of the Law on the temporary grant scheme for large-scale enterprises after August 2020 for grant periods after February 2021 that restaurants and service facilities may choose to give away goods that are fresh rather than tossing them, and nevertheless receive compensation for lost stocks.’ The proposal shall be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to ensure that all companies with significant State ownership set commitments and plans to phase out all activities harmful to nature and climate, and to report on their contribution to the Paris Agreement and on the objective of a nature-neutral Norway.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked, at the latest in the State budget for 2023, to submit proposals for the establishment of Bionova. The mandate shall, in addition to Bionova being a financing mechanism in support of agricultural climate action, also support systematic innovation and increased commercialisation of all bio-based valuations in Norway.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the Government in its proposals for the State budget for 2023 to establish a grant scheme under Bionova where agricultural holdings and other companies developing bio-based and sustainable value creation can apply for support for climate measures such as the purchase of emission-free tractors, the installation of solar panels on operating buildings, biogas production and other machinery, technologies and methods that can contribute to more climate-friendly operation.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e10295	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4-11, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked, at the latest in the State budget for 2023, to submit proposals for the establishment of a circular economy centre linked to a university environment. The Centre shall be the driving force behind a circular Norwegian economy, inter alia, by investigating and proposing producer liability schemes for all relevant industries and products, industry standards for recycling raw materials, improved solutions for recycling materials and conducting research and development in the circular economy.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: «The government is asking to set up the production fee on salmon, trout and rainbow trout in a way that provides host municipalities with sustainable farming rates [[minimum with escape, lice and release to the environment]] Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked, at the latest in the State budget for 2023, to propose an investment aid scheme to breeders who move to sustainable zero lice, zero escape and zero emissions farming technology. The maximum aid rate is set at 40 pst. of the investment.’;» Proposal No. 7 sounds: «The government is asked, at the latest in the State budget for 2023, to submit proposals for an investment aid scheme for fishing welfare measures in the farming industry.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government requests the establishment of a State Centre for Alternatives to Animal Testing, for example based in the Veterinary Institute and Norecopa.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to propose to increase the support to Matsentralen Norway in order to enable them to redistribute more food and reduce food waste, in connection with the government’s warning of the introduction of a food law.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to establish a food grain stand-by.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked to investigate and submit proposals for a grant scheme for increased use of Norwegian wood, with the aim of increasing the further processing of wood in Norway.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e10350	There is a vote on proposal No. 13 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The budget agrees that the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries in 2022 may: 1. launch the Ocean Space Centre building project within a cost framework of 4 073 million. krones. 2. start up the user equipment project of the Ocean Space Centre within a cost framework of 4 501 million. crowns, and to enter into commitments for subsequent financial years within the cost framework.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e15220	It is added over A all Roman numerals, B all Roman numerals and C all Roman numerals. Behind the setting are the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Red Party, the Left Party, the Green Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e18435	It is votered over A §§ 2, 3, 5 and 6. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e18449	President! My vote was not recorded.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e18454	There are several people who have not registered their vote. Let's do the voting again.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e18466	It is voted on by other paragraphs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e18476	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e18487	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget. The Committee shall be consulted on the position of B.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e18506	In the course of the debate, a total of ten proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Nikolai Astrup on behalf of the Right, Red, Left and Christian People's Party proposal No 2, from Nikolai Astrup on behalf of Right, Left, Environment Party of the Green and Christian People's Party proposal No 3, from Nikolai Astrup on behalf of the Right, Left and Environment Party of the Greens proposal No 4, from Nikolai Astrup on behalf of the Right, Left and Christian People's Party proposal No 5, by Marius Arion Nilsen on behalf of the Progress Party the proposals No 7 and 8, from Sofie Marhaug on behalf of Red proposal No 6, from Rauand Ismail on behalf of the Green and Christian People's Party proposal No 9, from Rauand Ismail on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA proposal No 10, from Kjell Ingolf Ropstad on behalf of the Christian People's Party
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e18539	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7 and 8, from Red. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the power-storage system assumes that the threshold is set at 50 ores up to 2000 kWt and 70 ores between 2000 and 5000 kWt. Furthermore, a step-by-step State invasion of 90 pst is introduced. compensation up to 2000 kWt and 50 pst. compensation of more than 70 ears between 2000 and 5000 kWh, for the months of December of 2021 and January, February, March of 2022.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a maximum price of electricity for households, industry and business according to the law on price measures in view of the huge difference between the production price of power and the market price of electricity this winter.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e18561	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The third paragraph of Section 5 shall be replaced by the following: The Energy Regulatory Authority shall calculate the social benefit rate based on the following formula: 0,8 x [[removal basis — threshold]] Red has announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e18580	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide a long-term solution for compensation to households during periods of abnormally high electricity prices. The measures must be designed to avoid pre-empting luxury consumption and stimulate increased energy efficiency and local energy production.’ Red has announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e18597	There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Green Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The second paragraph of Section 2 is replaced by the following: The Act applies to energy use from November 2021 until and including March 2022.» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e18617	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the temporary law on social benefits to households as a result of exceptional electricity costs [[power aid law]] § 2 The second paragraph of Article 2 is replaced by the following: The Act applies to energy use from November 2021 until further notice. § 5 The calculation of the benefit in the second and third subparagraphs shall be replaced by the following: Social benefits are granted only if the social security basis exceeds 50 øre per kWt excluding VAT in the price range in which the customer is affiliated [[removal basis — threshold]] § 12 Entry into force The law shall apply from 1 January 2022 until further notice.»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e18644	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Right, Left and Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to assess the impact of the exceptionally high electricity prices on voluntary and non-profit institutions serving households and to return to the Stortinget as soon as possible with proposals for remedial measures.’ The Progress Party and Red have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e18661	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Right, the Left and the Environment Party of the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a ceiling on the high electricity prices compensation scheme of 3000 kWt and to increase the level of compensation within a province-neutral framework compared to the government’s proposal.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e18676	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Right, the Left, the Environment Party, the Green and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the government to pay an extra 1000 kroner to all those who were unemployed, on leave or on payroll in December 2021, on the next payment.» The Progress Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e18693	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right, Red, Left, and Christian Party. ‘The government asks the government to assess the impact of the exceptionally high electricity prices on traders, including gardeners and others who consume a lot of electricity, and to return to the Stortinget as soon as possible with proposals for remedial measures.’ The Progress Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e18837	Behind the setting are the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. All other parties have notified subsidiary aid to the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e18849	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e18859	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e18873	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? – The representative of Ms Solberg has asked for the floor. The President thus gives the floor to Ms Solberg pursuant to the second paragraph of Paragraph 54 of the Stortinge Rules of Procedure. The representative has a speaking time of up to 5 minutes, also according to Section 54 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e18885	At the end of this meeting I have asked to contact the Minister of Finance for the Storting to receive an information, or answer to questions, on the so-called pay compensation scheme related to the pandemic response and compensation in connection with this. We have had more debates today on the same topic. I believe there is no reason to say that not everyone in this room is concerned about and concerned about the situation we are currently facing, with many people who have been permised or have received a permit notice just before Christmas, in an already difficult and laborious economic situation because of the power prices. And when, through the decisions taken to combat the pandemic, we contribute to taking the livelihood from people by making rules that are so strict that it's not possible for them to exercise their function, or for their businesses to be able to walk around, it's important that we make good arrangements. This is why a majority of the Stortinge last week, when the government presented its financial compensation measures related to the Korona, made it clear that it was thought that it should also be a pay subsidy scheme. The same was true of all the social partners. They were even clear that it was the scheme that came to be most important, not least in order to prevent people from being outlawed. Then, in repeated interviews over the past week, we've heard that this is on the way, and that it's coming, but the warrants have gone out too many. Some companies have chosen to wait with permit notifications because they are waiting to see the details, and I understand that these details will be presented – or presented – at a press conference during today. The reason I asked to ask this question was that I thought there was going to be a proposition, where the Storting could take a position on this and give a mandate to the government. But I realized yesterday that it was not planned to make such a compensation proposal before January. It is relatively long to wait to know which rules are going to apply to those who have sent out cancellation notices or who are considering sending out cancellation notices. We don't have a majority government. We have a minority government, a minority government that needs to secure anchoring in the Storting in order for the arrangements to actually be there. A majority government could choose to say, you can trust us, we have a majority behind us. But as far as I know, there were no calls or negotiations with SV. So there's not a clear majority behind the rules. Therefore, it would be a good idea if you had come to the Stortinget very quickly to brief me, and that is why I am now giving the opportunity to brief you on this and to have a discussion on this. Let me also give you some points of view about what I want to call the speculations about, or the leakages from, what's going to be in this system. In fact, during this day, we have had a flow of reactions from industry — from companies that have been permitting, or who are going to permit — that what is proposed is not going to stop the lay-offs. There's several reasons for that. One is the level of compensation. I understand that the government doesn't think you can go any further, because it's difficult with the ESA rules. Of course you have to respect that. But then the question is, what would the input value and the other regulation be for this to be a favourable scheme? I understand that the government has assumed that, in order to receive a salary subsidy, no one can be permitted. When this occurred in the discussion in the media last week, it was about retaining core competence in order to be able to develop further. However, if it is now necessary to choose between having everyone permitted or receiving payroll subsidies, a number of enterprises will, because of a low level of compensation, have very high costs. I have even heard about a company that has a little over 50 employees, which says they have 2.5 million. kr in expenses that they have to pay, while being shut down because they are not allowed to give – and it is a place that only gives away. So they don't have customers. They're gonna have 2.5 million. kr without coverage at the top of this, because they participate in the effort to ensure that the spread of infection is limited? So they can't keep anyone; they have to permite everyone, because the arrangement is like that. It is therefore important to hear how the government intends to implement this. My last 20 seconds I will use to say that if there is a need to get a quick clarification in the Stortinget, it is fully possible, until Tuesday, to interact with the parties on the Stortinget, that we are promoting a common proposal in the Storing Hall, that we adopt it on Tuesday, and then we will provide security to Norwegian businesses. We've been creative and good through this pandemic. I hope the government can help us to be creative and good in the rest of the pandemic as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e18906	Then the President will give the floor to the Council of State Trygve Slagsvold Vedum, who also has a speaking time of up to 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e18911	It is nice to have the opportunity to use a bit of the Friday evening to inform about this new scheme. I want to start a little wider, because there are a lot of companies and workers in a difficult situation. Our job in government and the job of everyone sitting in this room is how to make this situation less difficult for people and safer for businesses. That is why some of the schemes that we already know, such as the national compensation scheme, are important. We know that many of the companies have also previously used the local compensation scheme that is more adapted to their situation. It may be used with local discretion. It has also been important for the government to come up with measures for culture, for sport and for many of the businesses where people can no longer meet. It's been important to have a better security of income for the perm; we say you have to have 80 pst. coverage up to 3 G. It gives more security to those who are being permised. We are committed to continuing the guarantee of income for freelancers and self-employed people, those who are not in a permanent employment relationship, but who have dared to try to bet on their own company. There are some of the measures that many here know, and that many here have been involved in developing, that we are now launching, and that we want to help ensure people's everyday lives and also make it a little easier for those companies that are struggling. Then we come up with a new system, the payroll scheme, which is a new tool in the toolbox, which hopefully some more are going to be in work and some fewer are going to be out of work. It is also important for us to discuss this pay subsidy scheme, to stress that permitting is a natural part of Norwegian working life. It is part of the safety network for businesses and for employees that a good and robust permitting system is in place. That's why we've also made it better, because those who are on leave get a higher compensation. So that's part of our system, and it's important when we're making a new system, that you don't look at permitting as something negative about the Norwegian system, because it's part of the safety valve in the Norwegian system. Let me go through the new scheme. The starting point is that we're going to support companies that have a downturn of more than 20 pst. Then they come under the payroll scheme. Once they have had a decrease in turnover of 20 p.m., the first threshold will be NOK 3000 per employee throughout the company. It's quick to misunderstand. If you have e.g. 10 employees and 20 pst. the decrease in turnover, in which case you will receive NOK 3000 per employee. That's the starting point, and then it goes up to $30,000 per employee. That's the framework of the scheme: that's NOK 3000 in the input value and NOK 30,000 in the max value. The reason we've come there is that it's also been agreed with ESA earlier today in an informal process, to know that if you go too high, you don't put the scheme in jeopardy. In addition, we have set a maximum of 47 million per enterprise. kr. One enterprise – typically a large hotel enterprise, e.g. That's a total of 47 million. kr per month. So it's pretty powerful tools that are part of this package. The time period set is December, i.e. from the beginning of December, and January. Companies that have already issued a permit may take back their employees if they consider it appropriate. It is the companies that have to assess themselves, along with their trust leaders. They can take back their employees and enter this plan, if they think it is right. What we politicians do is we try to make things right, and then it's the companies and the employees who have to make the choices, and in Norway you do it a lot times together. The proposition will come after New Year, with all the details and everything that's going on here. This was a work that started between the Department, the NHO, the LO and the Works last Friday, and we have the solution in place now. It will provide security, because then the companies know that there is a will in the government, along with the parties, and – I am absolutely sure – also a common will in the Storting to make this system the best possible. This makes it possible to ensure that as many as possible of the owners who now have a choice – they should permit or use wage subsidies – know that they can use wage subsidies. That's what we're also going to present with the parties afterwards. Of course, the government has the primary responsibility, but we have had a very close and good dialogue with both LO, NHO and Works, and I look forward to hearing the further debate in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e18932	I would like to thank the Minister of Finance for the outline of the scheme, which seems both generous and well-designed. There is no doubt that there has been a demand for wage support and a pay support scheme, and there has been a discussion about this both during the previous closure and in what we are witnessing now. So there's no doubt that there's a system that's wanted by the parties. I also find it reassuring that a worker works closely with the parties in developing the scheme to be there. It helps to establish security when you know about it. For us, it's important that we play with the parties. It is important that the system that is there promotes activity, and that we have arrangements that actually support activity and keep people in work. It is important that a person is able as far as possible to avoid permitations, even though I fully agree with the Minister of Finance that having good permitting arrangements is also an important safety net at the time we are in. We look forward to getting this to Stortinget and believe it is right that a person runs the processes that the government has now launched, and looks forward to dealing with this matter in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e18941	Thousands of people in Norway now face a very uncertain time because they have electricity bills to pay, and at the top of it, the system now being presented may not meet the need completely, because many people now have a permit. We have constantly heard that the government has put in place strong measures to deal with the pandemic. The problem is that we haven't seen a vandal of them here on the Storting, and as I know, on the Storing these arrangements are actually adopted. You run around talking about the compensation scheme that's going to be reopened. We have not seen it as a treatment here – nor as a wage support, but now I understand that it will be over the New Year. It's probably too many companies that are now struggling, because it's often the details that are the most important, and they're obviously coming there. We hear the Minister of Industry running around talking about a municipal arrangement where one billion more have been added. Nor has it been dealt with here in the Stortingen where these decisions must actually be taken. And we hear that we have to compensate for lost stocks, and it has not been dealt with here in Stortinget. The only thing that has come here to the Storting, or that has been done, is that you have come with a loan guarantee scheme – which does not have to come to Stortinget, but is a regulation. There has been a red thread in the government's management of the power crisis and pandemic that you're paralysed. I believe that for many who have voted for the Workers' Party and the Center Party, it must be a disappointment when children discover that Christmas is one they know – they really miss deliveries that are promised. Now, after spending months trying to talk away the pandemic, pretending it didn't exist, we're in a situation where you're completely behind. I remember very well how impatient both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance were when they sat in the Storting and were in opposition. Unfortunately, I do not see the same impatience now. In Bergen and Oslo, I see that the defense has also been called in to assist, to deal with the vaccination, and that might say a little bit about where you are at the back. So to the payroll scheme: as we have at least understood through the leaks that have occurred, you can only apply for wage support if you don't leave any employees. In that case, it could mean that far more people are going to be outlawed than what would have been the situation if they opened up so that the companies could keep at least those they had the opportunity to work. It would be better to have someone at work than no one at work, at least in the light of the Progress Party. So I'm afraid that this could be a challenge for many. But I would like to ask about the details here, if the Minister of Finance could say something more about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e18954	I would like to thank the Minister of Finance for the distribution. Part of our business life is in a difficult situation, and to meet it requires another tool, and a needy tool that is absolutely safe. It is important, therefore, that one, in addition to a wage support scheme, takes care of permitting schemes, that one has a municipal support scheme and that one has a national compensation scheme and that one has cultural arrangements. There is a lack of goal to be met, and then flexibility is important. I also think it is very important that the parties have been involved in the rather demanding work that is drawing up the boundaries of these types of schemes. It may be easy to resort to a slightly straightforward argument in such a case. Yeah, could it have been done before? I only want to pay attention to a decision that the Storting made on 19 January this year: ‘The government, in cooperation with the social partners, is asked, by February at the latest, to propose a new wage support model so that people can be kept in employment rather than on leave.’ It was done with the votes of the Labour Party, the Centre Party, SV and the Progress Party. There was another scheme that applied to the cancellation of the permit, so one chose not to sort out what the Storting decided. If you choose to make a point that you have spent a few days with the parties to make it work out, you will have to do it. But now it's important to have pressed up and put these systems in place. The first distribution of the municipal wage support scheme came today, and the schemes must come on an ongoing basis. I am very pleased with what is this government's promise, that the crisis measures should be as long as the crisis lasts.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e18968	I'm going to say first that it's exciting to get a real news in the staging room. Usually at these times, there are press conferences, completely different places, but here it actually came from the pulpit at Stortinget. That's very good. This is a very good arrangement. SV has been fighting for a pay support scheme since the pandemic started, and we have already raised the issue of wage support schemes instead of leave. It was rejected by the daring government. One didn't want to do it. History we know. It has been a long journey until we have come here today. The pressure of the wage support scheme during a period when there is a great deal of cut-off, where the option is to go a long time in permitting, the pressure to reverse this and start thinking about the wage support scheme has become so massive that now everyone in the Storting is a fan of it. That's good. I thought it was very good work by the government, who has worked quickly after they took the signal and went into the payroll scheme. This is a system that they used to be, so it was positive. And one has listened well to the social partners. So the question to the representative of Solberg: this is something that SV supports. Of course, we're going to have to go into the details over the weekend, in dialogue with the government. Tuesday next week is a critical day, because there are a lot of companies on the first day sending out a cancellation notice about – and there are two weeks since they did. Our goal is to be clearly informed that there are multiples here for a system that allows one to withdraw the warrants, and that instead people can go on salary support. That's a very, very important point. We just have to remember why this is good. Why is wage support good, in combination with different types of other measures that we want to come back to? It's good for them to add because it guarantees income in a completely different way than going on a leave. That's good for the companies. It's simply a social good. This is something that SV has been looking forward to coming, and we're going to work as fast as we can at all. Of course, we need to get into the details of this, so that we can finally conclude on Monday. Then we come back to some other questions as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e18987	I think it's good on a Friday night to talk about one that I often meet on Friday evenings, that's the bartender at my favorite table. She's now licensed for the third time. She works in a small bar without any big owners, with a handful of employees, so when they are permitted, there will be no news announcements at No. No. Most bars, restaurants, concert scenes and theater troops are just like that, a handful of large crowds that in themselves don't make headlines, but together they're very many. I think a lot of them now feel quite overwhelmed. They feel that it goes very quickly on them, but it seems like it costs so much for us politicians to let it go out on them. It may be that alcohol is not so important, so shutting down the donation is not so important in a way – we dare not admit that alcohol is important at least. But work is important, and when we close the donation, we take the work from people – we actually introduce a professional denial for people. Let me remind you what it has to say to her who works on my favorite bar: if she stays at work, she earns approx. 350,000 kroner a year. If she goes over to a day's allowance, which is permitted, even if it is an elevated level, she goes down to approx. 280 000 kroner a year. There's a lot to say about a salary that's already low. But what might have more to say to her is that going to work is very nice. It has a lot to say for us as people to be allowed to work, contribute to the community, create values, as workers do every day when they go to work, and it has a lot to say for mental health. I think that for many who are now taking the third permit, it is the psychological that is most difficult for them. Therefore, it is serious, I think, that we have waited a very long time for some clear answers on salary support, that it has now been Friday evening before Christmas. You could call it 12 hours, but I'm sorry, I'm worried that it's over midnight for some of these companies, that it's not in time for them to avoid the permitting wave that we've been afraid to come, and that's actually starting to roll. It'll be a bit like the infection prevention measures, that if you start action too late, they won't work. We're worried that people are going to sit through Christmas and figure out if it pays off, because of course it's for businesses. Does it pay to permite, or are they going to keep people working through payroll? Therefore, we would very much like to have adopted a system with all the details in place – no doubt – before Christmas. I think it's rather tragic to have to go back to her I know and say that we big-time politicians – who basically don't create so many values, I'm standing here at least and chattering most of the day – are going to have Christmas holidays, it's going to be quite long, and we're going to have a salary, it's going to be huge, but we don't have time to deal with the details that might affect her everyday life both economically and perhaps also humanly.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e19000	When the government held a press conference and introduced new anti-infection measures, which in practice shut down large parts of industry and Norway, they were very tall and dark. What was said was that contrary to the previous government, there was a clear picture of all the support schemes immediately. It was repeated and repeated. But that's not true, because the support schemes you're talking about are not agreed upon in Stortinget, and it's still very unclear when money is made available, and how the rules are going to be. For example, the Minister of Industry sat just before the weekend and said that there is already 1 billion. kr to the municipalities, which they can get to the companies. You have not allowed one kroner to be allocated to your municipalities. That means that the previous government has allowed 200 million. NOK, which has not now been sent to the municipalities. Such decisions are possible here, and it is possible to do so before Christmas. For example, in the news-ageing period up to the week, the Left has the right to grant additional 300 million. kr to the municipalities, so they can get the money out. There was little support for it in the setting, but I hope that the Storting will change to the week when we adopt it. The wage support system, which I am glad that the Minister of Finance is here and, at least in part - if so, is another system that it has been unclear about at all, and what the legislation will be. Now we've got a sketch. To sketch, it is said that it is good that it will apply from the beginning of December. What is said as a big question is whether it is the case, as has been mentioned in leaks – who they come from – in the media, that if you have posted workers, you do not receive any pay support. I hope that the Minister of Finance will clarify when he is going to get the floor afterwards, whether that is the case, because if companies that have already gone to lay off, they will not be able to get payroll support for those who are still at work, I and Left fear that this scheme will help very few companies, and that the result will be more layoffs. And that can't be the goal. It is said that no decision will be taken here until after Christmas. Then you have to come up with a proposition, but you have to feel sure that things are going to be what they are going to be. I hope so, but it is clear that now the government went to its support party, SV, in the pulpit and said that they would have to get into these details and come back to what they think. And what happens then, if they're not some detail? What, then, will be the arrangement? The more it is possible to present and adopt here before Christmas, the better it is for all those who now have a lump in their stomach – whether they are owners responsible for businesses, or they are workers who are afraid of their job. A press conference is about to be convened, but I think the press will also have access to the flow from the landfill, so if the Minister of Finance is now with all the details, it would have been an advantage if the Storting had been made acquainted with the most possible of them. In any case, I would encourage him to clarify the question of whether he can still receive salary support if he has already given a permit.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e19013	We're in a demanding phase in the pandemic, that's a lot of uncertainty. I think we've all talked to both employees and business owners who express despair, but also a completely different fatigue of action, that another one had to go into closures. I think the debate here has been good, for it shows a will that the Minister of Finance hopes to be in the Grand Duchy, to meet and to be constructive. I will clearly signal that the Christian People's Party is also concerned about being. But what I'm asking questions about is whether the predictability of business and employees will actually be present. For several of the questions raised today, is it possible to have a profit this year in order to access different support schemes? Can a person afford someone and receive salary support for others? May take dividends to be part of the compensation scheme, etc.? I am absolutely sure that the Minister of Finance can give some answers, and that is a good starting point for knowing how to deal with the situation. But SV came to the pulpit and said something else, I've read other plays, and one knows that through negotiations, whether it's through the weekend or whatever, there might be other answers. I have a lot of understanding that it is difficult to present this, and I have a lot of understanding that it is working on blasts, but it is demanding to go into Christmas without knowing whether to permit, whether to bet on salary support, whether to be able to access the signaled support, or not. There's one word that very often goes back when we talk to business, and that's predictability. Right now that's also what they have the biggest lack of. I'm asking the government to do what they can to ensure that it's safe, that it's predictable – and whether or not along with SV, or in other ways, want to involve Stortinget, but at least create maximum security for business, and for employees, so that they can know what Christmas is like and what the next few months will be like.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e19027	I would also like to thank the Minister of Finance for coming and for answering, even though I probably didn't feel like I totally saw all the sketches, and in particular the question that others have raised afterwards, namely whether it is that there is none or all. Does that mean that you can't permit someone and keep someone, because you'll be excluded from this scheme? It will exclude a lot of companies. In addition, the small, difficult things are in the details. It's like if you start on December 1st and not, for example. 13 December, you actually get a completely different input threshold than 20 pst. It is from the time when the tipping or the serious measures are actually applied, or it is that day. It might be hard to find a way to evaluate it. Maybe that's the background for having set 20 pst., and not 30 pst., but it's clear that you might have had a pagan Christmas Sunday until that day – and zero work the next day. And then it's the question of these borderlines that are going to be important. I believe that it sounds like a scheme that is going to help some of those who have had a little decrease in activity, who still have activity, but who may be going to help very badly those who get shut down almost the whole business. That means that those who largely live on the alcohol turnover are going to be the ones who take the majority of this bill as well. They are the ones who have also had to stop long before. You should think about that, including the flexibility in it. My offer is at hand. I believe that this should be an arrangement that we could manage to create breadth around. It was a majority of the Stortinget who said that we wanted a paycheck because the government didn't have it as part of the repertoire. So I'm saying that it's good that they've now taken it with them, but it could be an idea just to make sure that you didn't let a very narrow selection end up deciding how many could fall outside. I think the government would have liked to seek support in a broader and larger majority on the Biggest. As I said, it is possible, especially after the Minister of Finance has said that they have consulted under hand – and I know well how this happens – that the level of compensation should be at this level in order for ESA to accept it. Then it should be fully possible to just talk enough with us so that this will be adopted on Tuesday in Stortinget. Then you had the security around the rules and could get started faster.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e19040	Finally, all policies are about people and people's everyday lives. And then we have the different roles, slightly different rhetorical points. But if we scrape away the different rhetorical points here, all the parties have agreed that we should have a pay subsidy scheme, so there's no need to spread any unrest to the companies that are now sitting and going to make their choices. What I hear is that someone might want to do it even better, but there's no one against a pay subsidy scheme. Therefore, it is probably a unanimous increase that wants us to put in place a pay subsidy scheme. So then there's no need to spread unrest. All of us who sit here as elected representatives, and I as the Council of State, do see for us these businesses, these people, the ones that are being hit. That's why we have a common responsibility to find a solution. Then we've been using this last week. We got a letter from the parties last Wednesday, called to a meeting on Wednesday, got to a meeting on Friday and used a week together with NHO, LO and Active to try to make a solution that can help – and here we are now. And all the solutions, all the national compensation schemes we've had in the past, etc., have had their strengths and weaknesses, but the sum of different schemes has helped businesses, and it has helped workers. This scheme can help some new businesses, some new workers, but also here there will certainly be some demarcation problems. But what's the summation of this round is that we have an almost unanimous magnification. The Green Party has not spoken, but all the other parties who have spoken have spoken in favour of a pay subsidy scheme, where we also have respect for the international framework we are bound by, and that we must not create a system that appears even better in the Grand Duchy, but, when it comes to the problem, cannot be implemented. That is why we have also had the rounds, more informally, with ESA, to ensure that you are within the framework that allows you to get it through in practice as well. I'm glad. So I've seen that someone wanted to make a rhetorical point about the municipal compensation scheme, that we say 1 billion. kr. But no one argues that they want less. So of course, if the left wants more, you have to make suggestions about it. But at least you can be absolutely sure that the various proposals for which the government has made are the political majority, because everyone has argued in favour of doing something more. Then we'll have that conversation, have that discussion, look at the adjustments. And as former Prime Minister Erna Solberg said, of course, it's an advantage when you can have broad, unifying solutions when it comes to propositions to the Stortinget, and not least the support schemes that have come in connection with the Korona. I would like to sum it up with the fact that no one has expressed criticism of salary subsidies – everyone wants it. I'm glad, and we do it in collaboration with the NHO, the LO and the Work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-17.ana.ud503e19055	Then the word change is changed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
