ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-08.ana.ud137e33	The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For Oslo: Rauand Ismail and Michael Tetzschner For Sør-Trøndelag: Hilde Marie Gaebpie Danielsen Four permit applications are available: by the Røjres Stortingsgruppe on leave under the second sentence of Section 5 of the Rules of Procedure of Ms Anne Kristine Linnestad, with effect from 8 November and until further notice from the representative of Audun Lysbakken on care leave from 8 to 10 November from the representative of Linda Monsen Merkesdal on leave from 8 to 11 November and from the representative of Ole André Myhrvold on leave from 8 to 10 November in order to participate in the 26th Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Climate Convention and in the meetings of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and the Paris Agreement, COP26, in Glasgow. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave as follows: For Akershus: Tore Vamraak 8 November and until further notice For Hordaland: Sara Bell and Benjamin Jakobsen 8-10. November For Østfold: Lars Vegard Fosser 8.-10. November
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-08.ana.ud137e107	Tore Vamraak, Sara Bell, Benjamin Jakobsen and Lars Vegard Fosser are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-08.ana.ud137e118	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that case no. 2 – Unit – will be dealt with before case No. 1 and the President therefore asks the representatives to remain in office on case No. 2 has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-08.ana.ud137e173	It is nice to be able to present this state budget, a government budget that marks a new course – a new course for our country. All the large figures in a state budget are about the seventh and last of all about people's everyday lives. It's people's everyday life that means something -- how we feel, how our children feel at school, whether the children of the neighbor have a babysitting place, whether they know themselves or who they know, have a safe job to do, knowing that there's someone in the hospital who takes care of them we're happy about, that you're safe whether you live in a small place or in a big place. Economic policy must build trust, and it lays the foundations of people's lives. This government says that now it must be ordinary people's turn. With this state budget, we show that it is. Now is the turn of ordinary people – ordinary people throughout Norway. But how do we do that? So let's do that with a lot of grips. Let me take what sounds boring first: municipal economy. Municipal economy is really anything but boring. It's about the most important thing: security — for our kids, for the elderly, for our neighbor, a community that makes it possible to live a good life throughout the country. It's about something I've always had a strong commitment to, that the children have good schools to go to, and it's attractive for teachers to work on. Therefore, we will introduce a grant of NOK 500,000 per municipal primary school. We also want to make it cheaper to go to kindergarten by reducing the maximum price. Disabled persons shall receive the assistance they need in order to live a free and independent life. That's why we're going to reverse the Solberg government's $300 million cut-off proposal. DKK for grants for resource-intensive health and care services in municipalities. Those receiving such services should not feel that they are a large expenditure item in the municipality in which they live. We know that there are resources in everyone, regardless of their functionality. And a municipality should have financial room for manoeuvre not to have to choose between a leisure offer and necessary services for its inhabitants. We want people to live and live a good life throughout the country. Then it must be safe. Municipalities must be able to afford to provide the necessary safe frameworks. They're the ones who work in the field, who know best where the shoe prints. Local self-government is a foundation of our people's rule. Therefore, the government proposes to increase the local government framework grant by 2.5 billion. kr in free resources. It comes in addition to what the Solberg government added up to. So we're talking about a total of $4.5 billion. kr more in free income for the municipal sector next year. I'm talking about the big numbers, but to do this concretely, for a municipality like this. Eidsvoll means about 7.7 million. kr more to route with after this proposal than the Solberg government provided. Having a safe job to go to is crucial. An organised working life has been and is still crucial, whether you are a police officer, a nurse or an industrial worker. That is why we want to double the trade union deduction over two years. In 2022 we propose to increase the deduction by 50 pst. until NOK 5 800. The large, overall figures for the labour market are quite good. It's important because it's about how people feel, how everyday life is, and whether it's good feelings or concerns that fill our minds when we think about our own future. When we look at the large numbers, there are more conditions in the labour market that we have to take seriously and try to do something about. Although long-term unemployment has fallen rapidly in recent months, there are still more long-term unemployed than in a normal situation. Over time, there have also been more young people out of work. It's a development that worries me and the government. At the same time, there are many companies that have job vacancies but don't find the people they're looking for. What can we state councils and elected representatives do about it? We have to give opportunities to both the practitioner, the theorist and the person who has never been to work. And we have to make it possible to create jobs and find a job across the country. The government will help to give more people a chance to learn. We follow up on the social contract for more apprenticeships and propose more money for actions to provide better training up to a place of learning and to strengthen the follow-up of apprentices in companies. We want to increase the number of action sites by 1,000. We want to increase the number of permanent job placements by 250. We also want to give more money to Job and to the Labour Inspectorate, and we want to strengthen decentralised education. So it's that way that not everyone can work. Those of us who cannot work – whether for a period or for a permanent period – must also be able to live in security and predictability. That is why we think it is right to extend the right to work clearance. That's 490 million. kr to safety. The Workers' Party-Centre-Registration is taking more steps in housing policy, including: we strengthen the Bank's loan capital by 2 billion. kr. We are strengthening urban territorialisation, and we are proposing to strengthen the grant scheme to include children and young people at 555 million. kr. The government has had three weeks to prepare a new draft government budget. I mean, we've spent a lot of time. With the tax measures we take in this budget, people will notice that the country is on a new course. Two out of three get less in tax, 20 pst. receive unchanged tax, and the 13 pst. with the strongest back, receive a tax increase. Everyone gets cut in fees compared to the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left's proposals. In relation to the Solberg government's proposal, we cut the fees by 2.3 billion. kr. The biggest simple thing we do is with the electricity charge. After years of increase in fees, tax cuts are now being made. We're going to bring down the electricity bill by nearly 3 billion. kr per year. It is almost halved in the winter months – the electricity charge is 47 pst. lower in January, February and March – and 9 pst. lower the rest of the year. We want tax relief for those who travel far to work. With our proposal, they get increased deductions – less tax. We want to reduce the amount of the travel allowance by almost 10 000 kroner to 14 000 kroner and cut the ferry charges by 30 pst. compared to January 2021. For low-traffic connections and locations without mainland connections, we start work on doing ferry services free of charge. Ordinary people live all over the country. The country's commuters will notice a clear difference with this budget, whether they live in a central municipality or in a district municipality. A daily commuter from e.g. Hamar to Oslo will have increased its deductions by over NOK 20 000. We're gripping as monks, commuting subtraction is increasing. Another thing we do is to increase the deductions for seafarers, for fishermen, for farmers, for reindeers and for the action zone in Nord-Troms and Finnmark. We're increasing the deduction. We are actively using the policy to balance differences both geographically and socially. The corporate tax will be the same as before. We do that to create predictability and security for businesses. Good climate policy must be offensive and fair. It is those who have the least, who will notice the consequences of climate change the hardest. That's one of the reasons why we have to do what's needed to bring down the emissions. We'll take care of that. Charges can be an effective means of reducing emissions. But it must not be that those who have the least must also be those who carry the heaviest burden. If we're going to be able to solve the climate crisis, we need to have people with us, not against us. It marks the arrangement in this budget. We have to start with ourselves. The government will increase charges for non-quota emissions to approximately NOK 2000 in 2030. We're proposing to increase CO2 taxes on non-quota emissions at the same rate as the Solberg government, but we're doing it in a way that doesn't affect people so crooked. We reduce user charges so that the pump price is about Thirty cents lower than the proposal of the Solberg Government. In particular, the user charge for biofuels is reduced. We lower the traffic insurance fee, increase the commuting discount and cut the ferry charges. And as I've already been involved, we build charging stations in municipalities where it's missing. The solution to the climate challenge and the functioning of people’s everyday lives must go hand in hand. With the heavy tax reduction we are doing on biodiesel, we will also make building new renewable industries more profitable in Norway. Climate policy must be about cutting emissions both today and in the future. We must therefore facilitate the development of climate-friendly technologies. Let's do that, for example. by proposing more money for green development and migration through Enova and Innovation Norway. It's important that we cut the emissions here at home. At the same time, there is no doubt that what really wants to do is bring about changes internationally. The climate crisis is not only happening in Norway, it is a global crisis. Therefore, the government announces that our goal is to double Norway's climate finance to 14 billion. kr no later than 2026. We will contribute to significant global emission reductions and climate adaptation, including: by conserving rainforests, building renewable energy and enabling countries to tackle climate change, e.g. with regard to the ability to maintain own food production. The government will pursue an active climate policy where we use a number of instruments to reduce our emissions, while building industry, value-creating and using all of Norway. The oil adventure has provided Norway with unique opportunities. The oil fund is proof of this. Not only is the fund growing because the people of Norway Bank are doing a good job of managing the money, it is growing because fresh funds are being spent on the resources on Norwegian pedestals. In 2022, the country's revenues from the oil industry are estimated at 277 billion. kr. Tens of thousands of people work in the oil industry. Much of our well-being is built on the shoulders of the oil worker, and we're standing on the shoulders of the generations ahead of us. They were forward-looking strategists who made wise choices for the community and the future. They've helped lay the foundations of the beautiful country we live in, giving us the best conditions for a good and safe life. It is a great responsibility to manage such an inheritance. One of my predecessors, Sigbjørn Johnsen, put the first money into the oil fund when he was Minister of Finance in 1996. We are one of the very few parliaments in the world that have so much economic freedom of action, and we have it because of the wise choices made by previous generations. They made choices about how to manage our natural resources, which means that we have completely different opportunities than almost any other society. And if we make the right choices, generations after us will have equal opportunities to pursue an economic policy that gives people throughout the country security and a framework for a good life. In Norway, we are rich together. The last time I agreed to put forward a government budget, in 2013, we proposed to spend 135 billion. oil crowns. Eight years later, the Right-Christian People's Party-Left government proposed that we use 322 billion. oil crowns next year. We in the Workers' Party-Center Party government are laying down at the same level. But when you divide it up, that equals approx. 60000 kroner per Norwegian in oil money next year. Norway’s Bank has announced that the time of record interest rates is coming to an end. We have to be careful about spending more oil money, because that could lead to a steeper interest rate increase. In this case, the krone price can be stronger – it can make conditions more difficult for our businesses and thus for jobs across the country. Interest rate increases also directly affect the wallet of most people. For example, for a family with 3.5 million. kr in loans, interest expense will increase by NOK 27 000 for each percentage point of interest. I'm going to end this ball by saying once again that we who are sitting in this room now, must remember that the choices we make today are important not only for tomorrow, but also for the generations that come after us. Our common goal must be to have at least the same opportunities as us to give people living in Norway a good life, and we have to learn from history. Our wealth is built on national self-determination and wise, long-term choices – that we decide for ourselves how to use our natural resources. We jointly control the resources of the sea, the forest, the earth and our enormous energy resources. And we have to think in the long term. It is important for our national control that we equip ourselves better so that we can prevent purchases that could threaten national security interests. So we put out money to build up a new screening mechanism to be better rusted up against any purchase, as we saw in the Bergen Engines case. We're going to use Norwegian natural resources to increase our value creation, build communities and build each other's welfare. When you see the large numbers in a government budget, you can sometimes become speed blind. We need to respect how we spend the tax money on people. Public expenditure amounts to about 60 pst. of mainland GDP. Public agencies are going to get funds to do a good job, but we can't afford to waste. Until that's what the government is doing, too important. The state has been spending too much on consulting services in recent years. We have to take the money from what's not so reasonable, and use it where it's needed. Therefore, the government proposes that the most widely used agencies in PR and organisational development should be cut. This is a start and shows a new direction. It is also time to dampen the paycheck in the top public sector. This is a process we're now starting. It's a clear government control signal. We want a society with smaller differences. The public sector shall not increase differences geographically or socially — it shall reduce them. I used to talk about security, that it's people's everyday life that matters. With this state budget, the goal is for more children to grow up safely, that we get help when we get sick, that we know that the elderly are being taken care of. The most important thing is that municipalities have room for action to provide good services to people. That is why we are strengthening the local economy. In addition, the State must contribute where possible. We want to strengthen state child protection by 100 million. kr. We want to strengthen the hospitals by 700 million. kr, so that they can reduce the waiting times and re-introduce them into treatments as a result of the pandemic. We also increase basic funding for, inter alia: to be able to increase treatment in the field of mental health protection. We want to increase efforts to recruit fixed doctors with targeted measures, including 50 million. kr to introduce a new medical care grant scheme in municipalities with specific recruitment challenges. The basic principle of security is a close and accessible police force. Therefore, we will provide the police with increased resources to facilitate increased local presence. We're going to increase the funds for the police by 200 million. kr. We propose to strengthen the police, the courts and the criminal justice system. We are implementing measures to improve legal certainty. We're proposing another 100 million. kr for measures against flooding and slipping. We want to protect security wherever you live in Norway. Therefore, just security and preparedness are a heavy priority for the government. In the beginning I said, now is the usual people's turn. I said it's a lot about municipal economy, work, distribution of taxes. But it's about a lot more. Not least, it's about something that's very nice with Norway in relation to other countries – we live widely, there are people, culture and traditions throughout our long-term country. There we find industries that we are proud of – agriculture, fisheries, travel, powerful industry and much more – but it does not come of its own. It's about politics, it's about values, it's about wanting. We are a government that will have development throughout the country. We want to reverse the violent centralization we've seen in the last eight years. There's something we can decide to do something about, and we're going to do something about it. We believe that the offers and opportunities should be found where people want to live, whether they live in the city or in the village. That is why we want to strengthen, among other things. Innovation Norway, that's why we want to strengthen the close services, that's why we want to take part of the money the Solberg government would spend on community mergers, and rather spend 100 million. kr more on broadband. And that's why we're taking action for agriculture, for seafarers and for the fishing industry. We want to develop all of Norway – because the wit is evenly distributed across the country, because Norway is a whole made up of large and small, because Norway is a society where everyone has to live a safe, good life, and life is basically everyday, and everyday life should be good. The basic task of a national election is to see, listen, understand and act. And then we'll serve. That's the starting point for the work we do in the government. That's the platform we're building on. That's what this state budget is all about. For politics is about people. We want to be a government that listens to people – in town and in the countryside. We want to develop the whole of Norway into a Norway with small differences in what we are so happy about.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-08.ana.ud137e232	The President will now open a comment round limited to one entry from each group with a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. After each post from the opposition parties, the Minister of Finance will be given an opportunity to comment for up to 2 minutes. Thereafter, the representatives of the opposition parties are given the opportunity to comment on the final report for up to 2 minutes. Furthermore, a comment from the Minister of Finance will be opened in up to 3 minutes to the end. The President will propose that we take the round of comments from the interlocutors down on the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-08.ana.ud137e239	The harvest's elections gave the country a new majority. Nevertheless, the previous government laid the basis for this budget. The new Workers' Party-Center Party government has only had three weeks, but still shows with this additional number that we are changing the direction of policy. We are changing the direction of labour policy. Where the inheritance after eight years of the Right and Advance Party is a weakened labour environment law and a doubling of young people, we are now taking vigorous action to ensure a safe and organised working life for all: several places of action, apprenticeships and VTA places, a strengthened hub and labour supervision and a doubling of the trade union deduction over two years, to mention something. The Workers' Party-Center Party government also strengthens its well-being. Where our predecessors have increased the nursery price, the maximum price is now greatly reduced. Together with reduced ferry prices, increased commuter deductions and reduced taxes on ordinary and low incomes, we show who we are for, and that we are serious when we say that we need to reduce the financial differences. We also do that by increasing the tax on someone. Those with the largest equity assets have to pay more in taxes on wealth. Those with high incomes have to pay a little bit more. After eight years of right-wing government, it's going to be fine. Two thirds receive lower taxes with this budget, only 13 pst. receive increased tax billing. Climate policy must be offensive and unifying. In this draft budget, we are taking strong steps to cut emissions, and we are making it possible to make green choices, among other things. through grants to loading stations throughout the country. Enterprise policy shall be linked to climate policy and cut emissions, create jobs and increase exports. On the part of the government parties, we look forward to working on this draft budget in Stortinget. The choice of the harvest gave a historic mandate for a new course and that course is already drawn up in this additional number.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-08.ana.ud137e254	The major government lacks answers to the major challenges facing Norway. They lack answers on how to continue to get more people to complete the school and fewer to fall outside. They lack answers on how to prevent health cows from increasing when taking the freedom of choice from the sick. They lack answers on how to cut the greenhouse gas emissions they say they will cut, while diesel and petrol will not be more expensive. They lack answers on how to create more jobs while increasing the level of taxation of Norwegian enterprises. Over eight years of bourgeois government, the criticism of the socialist opposition was the same: all adjustments could be stamped as unsocial cuts. Now that the same parties are in government, we see that unsocial cuts come in many forms, including by removing free treatment choices and e.g. the leisure card. Instead of giving priority to those who need it the most, this government chooses to lubricate billions thinly. Over eight years in the government, the Right chose to target actions for those who need it. The state should not be all for everyone, but it should help those who need it the most. I mean the 690 million. NOK at a lower maximum price for all and SEK 3 billion. NOK at a reduced electricity charge for everyone could rather have been used to lift those who have the least. It's probably nice – and it's nice for me who has a son in kindergarten – to now get a little cheaper kindergarten, but I'm not the one who needs it the most. We in the Solberg government prioritised low-income families and other vulnerable groups on both kindergartens, SFOs, leisure arrangements and housing support, to mention something. It was cheaper or absolutely free for those who needed it the most – we prioritized. This additional proposition confirms the impression we got when the government presented the Hurdal platform. There is no major project this government wants to implement in the future. The closest thing we're going to do is they're increasing the stakes on work in addition to our proposal, and that's all right. But from there, there's little trace of any real bets or bets that solve the big challenges we're facing. It's small and large, there's fulfillments of election vows that the Center Party came with, which are certainly nice, but not suitable for taking Norway forward. Much of that is also very expensive, but quite poor solutions. I think that's a shame. To end with a little bragging: it is good that the government does not increase the use of oil money. The Norwegian economy is now going well, and it is important that we restrict public money and facilitate access to the labour they need for Norwegian business. As the government itself writes, good developments in the labour market mean that the budgetary balance should not be weakened in comparison with the Solberg Government's proposal. I hope the government will follow its own advice when it will now negotiate in Stortinget with SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-08.ana.ud137e269	I hear Right saying that the Labour Party-Center Party government lacks answers, but we have quite different answers to what has dominated Norwegian policy now for eight years, with all the major public reforms being centralisation. We see it in the tax and tax profiles, because at each and every round it has been those who have had the most demanding thing, who have had the worst of advice, who have received the most burdens. We have answers other than the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have now completed for eight years. Our answers are that we want to strengthen the public sector, in large and small places, and we want to use tax policy to balance differences, not to reinforce differences. We want a climate policy where we create industry, jobs and value creation around the whole of Norway, and we want to play with people, not against people. So I notice that Tina Bru says that we don't give priority to those who have the biggest challenges. One of the main priorities we do is to give 300 million. In addition to resource-requiring services, these are those which have the greatest need for assistance around Norwegian municipalities. And why do we do that? Well, because they need security to get good services where they live. But in addition, they must be sure that it is not the case that the local rapporteur can say that because the girl or the boy gets that offer, we have to cut off the municipal leisure offer. We don't want it to be like that. That's why we're prioritizing 300 million. kr to the most vulnerable of all groups. There is something wonderful about the Right, which in all other contexts has faith in tax and tax cuts – as soon as it applies to everyone, there is something wrong with it. When we now want to reduce the electricity charge so that the bill for people goes down – we cut the electricity charges in January, February and March by 47 pst. – the use of taxes and charges will suddenly be a wrong tool, because then it will hit the many, not the few. We in the Centre Party and the Workers' Party want to take action that hits many, because we think it is wise to use tax policy to balance differences, not to reinforce them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-08.ana.ud137e278	I do not agree that one of the main priorities of this government is the 300 million. On the contrary, the three billion of reduced electricity charges are the real priority of this budget. Yes, they all hit, but not everyone in Norway is now equal to the electricity price. For some, the power price is quite low. This is a significant cost, and I wonder very much whether the government intends to continue with this in the years to come. In that case, there is a great priority, year after year, that will eat up a lot of the space for action. I wish the Minister of Finance could follow the words he himself used in his post here today, where he said we must not waste, we must spend the money where they are needed. I don't think this budget does when you lubricate so thinly on many things. But to take another concrete example: school. As mentioned above, one in five pupils drop out of secondary education. It's serious. We know that completion of high school is very close to the possibilities people have of getting a job later in life. Making sure that more people complete higher education, making more people, especially young people, get into work, reduce their benefits, and fewer falls away. Nevertheless, the biggest school effort of this government is to give a flat amount to all municipalities, which reward them for having many schools, not for having good schools. A billion bet in schools is good, but this billion bet should go to make sure we have good schools, not just many school buildings. When one in five drops out, it's a significant challenge for society, with which we have to do something. This is my main criticism of this budget – there are no major projects to address the major challenges facing Norway. At the same time, taxes on business are increasing when we're on our way out of a pandemic. It's not a good policy to create growth. And at the same time, you weaken the climate impact of our important instrument, which is the CO 2 tax, by lowering the user charge, which prevents green conversion, and which I know this government is concerned about getting to. Now it remains to go into the details to figure out how this brings us to the goal of cutting emissions by 2030. I doubt that we'll get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-08.ana.ud137e294	Work is in progress on taking Norway in a new direction. The first major milestone is today, and the new Workers' Party – Centre Party government has a new plan for Norway. Our clear ambition is to reduce the differences and make sure that several of those who are out of work get to work. Our plan is to develop the whole of Norway and make sure that people who live in extreme circumstances do a little better in their everyday lives. Our plan is to cut greenhouse gas emissions in Norway while creating more jobs and increasing value creation in Norway. The first comments that came to the State budget were quite indicative of how the outgoing government looked at the policy of the new government. When the new government said that we need to strengthen the common well-being of municipalities – strengthening the opportunities that municipalities have to provide better care for the elderly, to provide better schools, to provide better services to some of the weakest in society – the first representative Solberg did, to put a warning finger on not spending too much money. And when the new government went out and announced that we should ensure the security of people throughout Norway and ensure the local police present, the first comment from the representative of Stensland was that we have to get out of the election campaign. No, we're not going out of any fog, we're going to implement the policy we went to elections. That's what this budget is clearly characterized by. For the reduction in taxes and the reduction in the electricity charge: it is therefore those who have the least in the past who are hit hardest when the charges increase. Those with good incomes can draw on their shoulders and say that reduced kindergarten prices are not so important; reduced taxes are not important. But for those who have at least before, it becomes a little easier to meet winter when one knows that one gets the lowest electricity charges in the winter months since the mid-1990s if this budget goes through. Rather, those who have a good back to carry can contribute to the community by paying a little more tax on their income and wealth. That priority is attached to this budget. We take vigorous action to see Norway as a whole, to reduce disparities, to take full use of Norway and to cut emissions — not against people, but on people throughout Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-08.ana.ud137e303	Let me first congratulate the Minister of Finance, Mr Slagsvold Vedum, on his first presentation of the budget, quite rightly just a supplementary number – but nevertheless. The Minister of Finance spoke a lot about a new direction, and then you can ask what is really the difference compared to the budget that was put forward on 12 October by the previous government. There are at least some very clear similarities: monetary records are set, and the clear budgetary gains are symbolic climate measures and increases in aid – symbolic in the sense that the effects are highly questionable and the price is also uncertain. There are ordinary people in any case, and it is Norwegian industry that is going to take this bill. The government has found room to increase the trade union deduction, it's going to double, but they haven't managed to reverse the unsocial increase in the ownership limit, which thus hits a million Nordics who have a free card. And it's not a continuation in this budget of the mental health effort at the level for which the Progress Party was put into effect in the revised budget of the year. It's not 1 billion, either. kr to the hospitals, as previously suggested by the Workers' Party. That means that health cows probably don't go down, but they'll go up. It's a bad signal in the situation we're in, and it's a disappointing delivery. The increase in the CO 2 tax of almost 30 pst. and the Minister of Finance has just confirmed that it is an objective for this government, as for the previous one, to triple the CO 2 tax, despite clear promises made earlier on the opposite. And it's very critical for Norwegian workplaces. Fuel prices are sky-high, CO 2 charging increases prices further, pump prices will rise according to the State budget proposal presented by the previous government. When I see what's written in this additional number, I'm going to think about what Jens Stoltenberg sometimes said: if you're planning on taking the lift to the fifth floor and you're going off in the third floor, have you taken the lift up or down? For it is highly unclear what the government is actually adding in terms of the user charge, but the conclusion must be that it is going up even if it does not go up as much as the Solberg government had proposed. Then you can talk a lot about power prices that are sky high, and it is good that the government proposes to reduce the electricity charge, but unfortunately only for three months. In addition to the first three months, only what was proposed by the Solberg Government on a half ear in reduction is to be continued. In addition, we have November and December this year, which will also be difficult for very many Norwegian households.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-08.ana.ud137e325	I'm asking Stortinget just toss back a few years in time, because then it was Finance Minister Siv Jensen who stood there, the financial spokesperson Hans Andreas Limi is now standing. In the years she was a finance minister, she set a new tax record year after year, so it becomes almost strange to listen to Hans Andreas Limi when he criticizes the government for cutting the electricity charge, when we know that his former manager increased the electricity charges during his first years by an estimated 40 pst. There has never been any higher electricity charges in Norway than when the Progress Party steered the policy. So it's a little strange that he's so indignant that we just reduce the electricity charge by 47 pst. in January, February and March, when the Progress Party did exactly the opposite when they had power. It is nice that he is so indignant that we just cut the power charges by 9 pst. The rest of the year, when the Progress Party did exactly the opposite when they had government power. If you look at this scheme, we'll strengthen the hospitals by 700 million. kr. We're spending more money on mental health, because we think it's important to bet on mental health protection. We are strengthening the local economy, which means that things can be tackled at an early stage. We provide extra funds to ensure that for those who have the greatest need, in so-called resource-intensive services, it is reinforced by 300 million. kr. And we're increasing the funding for state child protection by 100 million. kr, just to help those who are most vulnerable in society. But it must be strange to be the Progress Party – the party that has had the most power in Norway in the last eight years, along with the Right, and has made up all budgets. The way they have prepared the budgets is through increased fees, and then Hans Andreas Limi appears to be somehow indignant because there is now a government that cuts the fees for people the most. Fortunately, there has been a change of government, fortunately there is a new course where you can see ordinary people throughout Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-08.ana.ud137e334	I am not indignant, rather on the contrary: I said it is good that the government proposes to cut the electricity charge. But I said it's too little, and it's one too short period. So I know that Minister of Finance Schlagsvold Vedum is very happy to drive a diesel car. Then, of course, he also knows that there is a reason that the windscreen is much larger than the rear-view mirror. Now it's not the story of what happened yesterday or last year, that applies, now it's the current situation and the future consequences of the new government's policy for ordinary people. Then we know that we are in a situation where we have high fuel prices – and the government is therefore proposing to increase them further, even though it is not as much as the previous government – and we have a record of the level of electricity prices. This means that we must also take vigorous action. We know that the period from now on and out of the year is going to be tough for very many private households in Norway. Therefore, the Progress Party believes that something should have been done immediately. The housing aid is a small measure, but it does not take much. So we have called for this, and we have proposed this: both a reduction in VAT on electricity and a significant reduction in and removal of the electricity charge. So we're happy that you're doing something, but we actually believe that in today's situation – and then we're not talking back to 2013 or the last eight years – the government should have done more. But I'm still not indignant. So we know that this budget will be negotiated in Stortinget, and it's natural to imagine that the government will negotiate with SV. Then we know in which direction the budget is going. At least there will be no less use of money, and at least it will not be a political direction in line with what the Progress Party wants. But I can promise the Minister of Finance that despite this, we in the Progress Party are prepared to participate in negotiating even lower taxes and lower costs for the most people. So he has some options in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-08.ana.ud137e348	This whole decade will be defined by the climate crisis and the inequality crisis. They're connected, and they have to be solved together. In countries by country, communities are being broken down and weakened – solidarity weakens. Increasing differences are poisoned by society. In Norway, there are now 115,000 children growing up in poor families. At the same time, we have over 400 billionaires. In recent years, people with low incomes and high housing costs have received less housing support. The differences between those who own their own dwelling and those who do not get into the housing market are increasing. At the same time, they own 10 pst. the richest in Norway almost 60 pst. of all assets. Mistakes have made less money to support their children in recent years. At the same time, the richest have more than 100 times the size of tax cuts than those that have the least to travel with. The richest in Norway pay much less tax than an average teacher or nurse does. While the children have had their glasses cut and many cannot afford a completely necessary dental treatment, the richest percentage in Norway receives 20 pst. of all income. Differences in power and wealth are increasing in Norway, and that is a result of misguided policies. Increasing differences cannot be met with relief from symptoms. We must redistribute wealth and spread power. This summer has hot waves, forest fires and floods. Climate change is in progress and provides shorter sketches, but also lost lives and lost homes. Climate change is affecting those who have contributed least to the change, most severely. And all the emissions count now. The changes around us are due to greenhouse gases we've already emitted, and how bad it gets depends on how much we're releasing in the next ten years. Each tonne of CO 2 avoided is a winner and a commitment we have. Climate policy cannot be weakened. Each future budget must therefore cut emissions and build the industries of the future. We have to have a climate policy for most people, a policy that allows the father of the Road, the kindergarten teacher of the Sogndal and the coastal fisherman of Steigen to join in climate change. But then the oil director must also meet. One state budget cannot and will not solve all the world’s challenges, but it will show what the priorities are. For the SV, there are small differences, strong well-being and high employment, and there are climate measures that cut emissions today and that convert Norway from being an oil nation to becoming a climate nation. That's the most responsible thing we can do.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-08.ana.ud137e366	What is common in the analysis between SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, I believe that we have a common goal of getting to a Norway with smaller differences, both socially and geographically. One of the themes raised by the representative Kari Elisabeth Kaski in his speech is housing policy. We have also raised housing policy more strongly in our new draft state budget, because, as Kaski says, one of the differences drivers in Norway is the housing market. That's why we're raising the loan framework to the House Bank by 2 billion. kr. We also put more direct grant schemes into housing policy, and we contribute money to regionalisation in cities with the greatest challenges. When we talk about distribution policy, it is very important that we have both the dimensions – socially and geographically – and we believe that housing policy is one of the areas we need to raise more strongly. In climate policy, it is very important that we reduce Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions, and also in the way that Kari Elisabeth Kaski says, by being able to build new industries, new value creation and jobs, and that it is done in a fair way. One of the most unwise things we who are so lucky to be elected or state councils can now do is to take action within climate policy that reinforces the differences between people. We have seen in a number of other European countries how it creates unrest and uncertainty and puts into discredit all the great effort we have to go through. That's why it's so important that when the Centre Party, the Workers' Party and the SV work together on the budget, we manage to achieve a policy that balances the differences, reduces greenhouse gas emissions and sees all parts of Norway. I am at least happy that I am absolutely sure that SV will support the idea that we give priority to resource-intensive services. If there was something my old associate Karin Andersen burned for, it was just to take care of those who were the most vulnerable. I mean that grip we do there, is a good grip, among other things. And we're increasing by 100 million. kr for the protection of the State’s children.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-08.ana.ud137e379	I thank you for the comment. Over the last few years, SV has provided alternative budgets that show a different course for Norway, a more solidarity course, a fairer course, which reduces the economic differences, which redistribute both power and wealth, which cut greenhouse gas emissions, and which have green industrial policies and policies that build jobs for the future. In order to get to that course, one must be willing to use the great instruments and the large sums — in the local economy, because our municipalities are out there for our well-being to be created, experienced and lived in. Then you have to spend the money needed for it; also in the housing market, where it is important that more people get in, but you also have to take control of the housing market, so that prices don't just keep rising as they do today. Similarly, we need to use the great instruments we have, to redistribute through the tax system, where those with the very greatest income and wealth, who have received huge tax cuts over eight years of bourgeois rule, now have more to contribute to the community, while most people come out in plus. We have to make sure that most people notice that they are receiving better advice, also in response to all the climate policy we are going to implement in the next few years. It's going to be noticed for people, and so is it, but we're going to make sure that people get involved in that climate. We must ensure that emissions are cut, that energy efficiency is improved, but that we also see that there is solidarity in the fact that the major polluters also contribute – like the oil companies, which have a great responsibility for the greenhouse gas emissions we have. It's the responsibility to do when we're building our new industries for the future. We need a stronger green industrial policy that builds the jobs of the future, and so make sure that Norway is converted from an oil nation to a climate nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-08.ana.ud137e390	I guess I wasn't the only one who this weekend saw the seasonal final of the Maskorama, and I wonder if there's anyone here in the hall who can hide behind the masks. Last year there was the finance minister, and one of the songs he was singing then, had refuted: «So it's far to go, and who knows if we're getting into goal? More than one block is needed to make a fire So come and go with me." I think those words really fit today, because it's very long to go after eight years with a government that has increased the differences both economically and geographically. But I'm sure we can get into the goal, because there are no laws of nature that have given us increasing class divisions and built down welfare. It is a hardworking right-wing government that has done, with concrete political decisions in this Chamber. Once we've had a clear decision of size that has given us a wish for a new course for the country, it's quite possible to use the same political power to turn the shot – and there's been a lot of maritime references around just that so far in the debate. But the draft budget is far from enough. This could have been a brand day in the fight against Difference Norway, but unfortunately the government is at peace with 30 billion. kr of the tax cuts to Erna Solberg. They continue the cuts in holiday pay for the unemployed, and they leave much of the skills in the public sector entirely at ease. As long as the Workers' Party and the Center's party doubt the tax settlement with the right-hand side – which gives us a stock discount, and which gives us a low corporate tax – we will never get a proper settlement with the differences. For anyone struggling with dental calculations, the budget is also toothless and disappointing. A massive majority of the population wants a dental reform. Nevertheless – given that I have managed to look at the additional proposition while I heard a speech – it is therefore zero and nothing from the government at that, contrary to the Hurdal platform's goal, which is very good, to treat the teeth as part of the body. Right now we see an increase in infection and a great deal of uncertainty in many municipalities around the country. At the same time, the government is already concluding to cut off the improved unemployment schemes from 1 January. So it could be that there is a Labour Party-led government that is responsible for pulling away the safety net under many of the unemployed in the free fall. I believe that this is a historic opportunity that is then being wasted, where experience from the crisis could be used to expand and strengthen the safety net for workers on a lasting basis. I still stand by that we can get to the goal, but then the direction has to be clearer and faster. If that happens, Red likes to fire both fires and go towards the same goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-08.ana.ud137e412	This aroused good memories. In the first shipment I sang “I don’t need a boat, money and cars”, but in this budget we have priority boat – i.e. ferries – so we have made a really heavy bet on it. To get the budget to go up, I need money, and before today I have been told that we are busy with cars too, so there is a lot you can use «Jovial» or Klovner in the fight for. It's nice. I will proceed to the final challenge of the representative in terms of leave. The first thing the government did was we increased the security of those who are long-term unemployed, out of the year, to make a gradual transition, but then go back to normal. Even if we see that the time off is coming down, we're strengthening the measures to get people out of line and back to work. So we're increasing the number of places by 1,000. We're not reducing even if the time off is going down. We'll strengthen it. And we're strengthening the arrangements for permanent job placements by 250, even though we see that the unemployment rate is going down, because we're so busy getting the long-term unemployed out of line. We provide security for all those who are on redundancy pay, for that scheme was also agreed to expire on 1 January. Now we give you some security. I do not agree with the analysis by Red that we are cutting, because we are betting. The whole goal of the government is to ensure that more people who have now been unemployed over time will get to work, whether they are the theorists, practitioners or those who have never been part of the working life. There's one of the heavy stakes in this budget. It's a very important goal for the Workers' Party and the Center Party to get people out of a reception role, so that everyone can contribute. Job number one is work for everyone, it says in the Hurdal platform, and we prioritise it because we think it's important. It's important for this one, but it's also important for us as a society, because we need the labour force that businesses need the labour force. That's why we're betting as hard as we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-08.ana.ud137e421	I agree that this is the right direction, and I guess I already said in the media that this is the best budget in eight years. I could conclude with that before I had seen the budget because I had both got the redundancy from the budget and, of course, also know the government's policy. What I challenge, and on which Red is more impatient, is actually about improving the safety net as well. The crisis has extended the maximum period of time that can be received, thus preventing people from falling completely out of the day-to-day arrangements at a time when there is still a crisis in some sectors. At the tax-free shops at Gardermoen, there is still – and has been at least a year and a half – a crisis. It is also in travel businesses in my home municipality. It is within culture and many other sectors. Red wants these arrangements to be extended for a longer period than 1 January, because solidarity must last until the last person is out of crisis. Secondly, we believe in Red that the crisis has shown that the safety net was too bad, because when very many became unemployed, it became clear to many – actually across the parties – that getting 62.4 pst. the amount of the daily income is low when you have a low salary. That's why they made a kind of low-wage supplement, which Red and many parties agreed to adopt. We believe that this has been an improvement in the safety net, and Red believes that we should use the experience of the crisis and actually take with us some of the things that have been good through the pandemic – and this is one of the things that have been good. We want to introduce it as a lasting improvement, just as crises in the past have been used by both the right and the capital forces to cause deterioration in society. We will continue to do that, even though I conclude that it's a much better budget than we've had the pleasure of looking at for a very long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-08.ana.ud137e430	When it comes to being outside talking about nice aspects of the budget before the whole thing is presented and the back of the medal shows up, I guess we don't see so many people who have a clean conscience. So I'm not going to judge it. But it's a risk sport to do it, because when the whole thing comes out, one of them sees the back of the medal. During the weekend, the government was out talking about climate action in the budget. A climate billion would lie in there, and it sounds very good. But what do we see now when we read the budget? It should be set at 100 million. kr for electric car charging point. That's good. But at the same time, one should increase the tax burden on the elbers by 430 million. kr. One takes a lot with one hand and please give me back a little bit. One's going to be 200 million. kr more to Enova. That's good. At the same time, it's worth 400 million. kr from Nysnø. One takes 72 million. kr from the eco-innovation scheme and weakens in total the instrument towards green conversion. One's going to be 500 million. D more in green aid, but one cuts the aid budget by 750 million. kr. So when we see the soundness of this that has been presented, there is no climate action. It's debilitating. The weakness that will have the greatest impact on emissions is that one now makes it significantly cheaper to buy fossil fuels. It writes the government itself in the budget will lead to an increase in emissions of 1.5-2 million tonnes over the years. It's significant. And when the representative, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, says that each tonne of cuts is one, one will find that there are two million defeats here. This is quite serious, because when one is in Glasgow at an important climate summit and talks about how important it is for the world to act, we also have to do the job at home. These weaknesses make a headline ‘just climate policy for ordinary people’. But it's not like normal people run pickups from Oslo west to Oslo west with documentation files in the morning. They're taking public transport. And now, public transport in Norway is in a serious situation: car use is rising, collective travel is falling, revenue is falling, and nothing is being paid to remedy that situation. When the government joined, Prime Minister Jonas Gahr Støre said that in the future there is an important change to take place in climate policy; one should count CO 2 -eject as much as a figure of dollars and ears. Now we have the number of heads and ears, it's presented today. The question I hope the finance minister will answer in his comment is: Has he spoken CO 2 emissions? What is the overall climate impact of what is being presented today? The only number I can find is a 1.5-2 million tonnes drop in CO2. But perhaps there is something here that the Minister of Finance has calculated will lead to severe greenhouse gas cuts. I'll look forward to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-08.ana.ud137e456	It's a little fascinating to hear someone who was a government councillor in the outgoing government, moralize that we haven't given more money to public transport. What's in the budget is 500 million. kr more for the counties. It's not 500 million. kr less, that's 500 million. kr more, which the counties can use for just public transport if they so wish. It's a little surprising that former government councillor Rotevatn didn't let in, for example. The 500 million when he himself had the opportunity. It was not chosen to be a priority. So we're prioritizing 500 million. more to the counties of the country, so that they can maintain the bus, train and ferry services – and other types of collective services – around Norway. It's a good move. This government, based on the Workers' Party and the Center Party, has also announced that we should have a completely different way of working with climate policy. We're going to have it as part of the annual government budgets of the years to come. We also have an ambition to create green jobs. We spend more money on Enova, we spend more money on Innovation Norway, so they can create more green industry. We're making sure that it's more profitable to use biofuels in the future, which is the opposite of what Left did when they put them in government. We're also increasing climate aid, because we think that's right. So we have a completely different and active climate policy. But it's true, as Rotevatn says, that we've tightened up the corporate car tax, because we've looked at who it is that gets the company car tax benefits, and it's those who have the best advice from before. We have prioritised some of the funds we have saved on company car taxes, for example. resource-intensive services. We thought – when we saw which group got those benefits – that it was a more proper use of the money. It was not a climate action that those who bought Tesla X or Porsche Cayenne would get lower taxes. It was an offer the employer could make, and you can still give it, but you don't get as much tax advantage as before. I stand for that; we spend the money on better things.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-08.ana.ud137e465	We have a 2025 target we're going to have to reach. All cars sold in Norway should be zero-run trucks, and every tightening in the system we have today will make it harder to achieve that goal. It's clear that when an increase in the tax burden on the elbers by almost half a billion, it'll make it harder to get there. Then it'll be more profitable to buy a fossil-powered pickup and have it as a company car over a zero-load truck. It is possible that there is a desired policy, but there is no desired result if one takes the climate measure seriously. There's a serious thing about this, because the road to 2030 is quite demanding. We're gonna cut a lot. I note that the Minister of Finance has not done what the Prime Minister said he would, simply count CO 2 emissions. The only number that stands here is that greenhouse gas emissions are going to increase dramatically – by millions of tons – in the future. The government should take this seriously. There is a lot else you could have entered here, for example: on the tax profile. So ordinary people are going to get $200 a year in tax bills, but ordinary people obviously don't include students or young people at work who get $5,000 in tax credits. There's a lot the government has promised to do, like a non-do. But fortunately – I get to finish positively – there are some things that the government has turned on. The centre party has openly reversed its views on the CO 2 tax by 2030. That's good. A steady ABE reform. The exemptions from the CO 2 tax for which the Workers' Party has previously been responsible, as for waste incineration plants and greenhouses, are no longer a good thing. One follows the budgetary policy of the bourgeois government there. But the sum here is hard to see should make it easier to carry out the green shift. On the contrary, an instrument weakens, and one makes it cheaper to defile. A type itself that there will be consequences in terms of higher emissions, at a time when we need lower emissions. I hope that the Stortinget and those who are going to negotiate with the government on the state budget will take the utmost seriousness, because that is what we are saying in Glasgow and promise – that we must meet our climate goals. Then one must show it in actual action.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-08.ana.ud137e487	I would like to begin by expressing my respect for the great job that the Minister for Finance has had to change the state budget under high time pressure. If our society had been in a situation without particularly major challenges, it would be very good to find here – among other things. redistribution, increased free resources for municipalities, etc. But in some very basic areas, we question whether the government has understood the seriousness. I believe that the Minister of Finance, in the hurry with the new budget, was not able to hear the speech that David Attenborough made at the Glasgow climate summit. There he described how the future of all life on earth depends on one thing: that we take care of nature that forms our common basis of life, and get control of the carbon content of the atmosphere. What we need now is a government that puts all its power in dealing with the natural and climate crisis, which threatens the future. We need courage, leadership, willingness to fight and the spirit of hard work. The solutions are ready. What remains is action. For example, the budget presented here disappears. much of the effect of Erna’s announced increase in the CO 2 tax. In this field, climate policy is set in reverse. I also understand that there is no greater grip to dampen the crazy investment in oil that the government has inherited from the right side. I would like to remind the Minister of Finance that the last estimate of the Central Bureau shows that 67 times more investment will be made in fossil energy in 2022 than in all other industries combined. But one of the most serious things in this budget is that, as far as I can find, it is not set by a single crown for corona support for the collective societies. A total of Norway, all the collective societies throughout the country, has demanded a billion dollars. kr in earmarked aid. 500 million. kr that county councils will use for very many other good measures will not remedy this. Bus departures and bus routes can simply disappear. Prices could go up in a time when they should go down. The hardest hit are in particular those with the lowest income, who cannot afford either a certificate or a car. This will affect the nurse and the cleaning worker who needs to work early or late. It will affect many of our oldest, it will affect young people and those who, for health reasons, cannot drive. Finally, I would like to say that the very reason why the climate crisis is one of our greatest challenges is that it affects the fragile balance of nature, which forms the basis of our lives. Then it is alarming that this budget does not spend enough money on nature, but on the contrary it seems to go at the expense of nature and, among other things, it does. Cuters 120 million. kr for forest protection. Now it's up to the Storting to call about nature and our common basis of life and ensure that the budget not only provides well-being for the average Northman right now, but well-being for everyone forever.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-08.ana.ud137e507	When it comes to what has been important for the government, I can start with the last thing, about forest protection. There we have made a big contribution to voluntary forest protection next year, where you can play with the local population and find good solutions. So it's on a high level. It is important that we have a protection policy where we take care of unique natural biotopes and biodiversity. It's a common responsibility we have, and that's why we've also allocated resources to it. Then we have also set aside resources for an active forest policy in which we can use the forest more actively in climate policy. When we are going to be able to transform our society over time, some of the main answer is to do so through the proper use of renewable resources. There's forest one of the possibilities, and that's where the analysis of the Green Party and the government platform sometimes crashes, because we think some of the best management is careful and long-term use, not unilateral protection. If we're going to be able to build new, green industries, we need to protect the biotopes that are needed, but we also need to have a forest use policy that creates more jobs and more industry and provides more value creation, and that allows us to bind CO 2 through active use. That is what is also seen in the industrial and climate part of the supplementary proposal: that we are doing a lot of work to cope with the use of our renewable energy resources. There is a grip on hydrogen, it concerns sea wind, biofuels and forests — as I have mentioned — and there are resources to Innovation Norway, such as: can help industry to improve recycling and that type of action. So there's a menu of measures that allow us to play with people, create jobs, bring down emissions and at the same time ensure biodiversity. I fully agree with the principle that we who sit here are responsible for delivering Norway in a slightly better condition than when we took it, and that includes, of course, biodiversity.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-08.ana.ud137e522	I appreciate the intention to build new jobs. A problem with which the mainland industry today comes to us politicians is that they just have job vacancies, but they do not get the best talents. When a newly educated civil engineer has the choice of earning DKK 800,000 in a future-oriented green workplace or of earning well over a million on Norwegian pedestals, it is obvious that only the strongest idealists will be able to contribute to the green shift and growth of the mainland industry. Here there are several business leaders who come to the politicians and beg and ask that we re-prioritise the funds from one side to focus on subsidies of the oil industry to actually use equally large muscles – preferably larger – to build up green industry in business. I also agree with the Minister of Finance that it is important to use renewable resources wisely, but there is a difference between using and using up. There is probably a large part of the reality here that is different between the government and the Greens. Of course, it is important to use forest resources in a good way, but we risk over-consumption and too much surface damage to the vulnerable soil ecosystem, which is where the research shows that some of the very largest CO 2 capture takes place. It doesn't help to cut up lots of logs that catch a little bit of CO 2 if it destroys the biodiverse that captures the largest amount of CO 2, the soil. This is something we're going to negotiate about and certainly disagree about, but also find good solutions to, and we're looking forward to challenging cooperation with the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-08.ana.ud137e542	I will promise the Minister of Finance that he will meet a constructive Christian People's Party, which goes into the budgets and documents that come in a constructive way. That's why I'm going to start by giving honey where I can nod recognition when I read the document. I think it is good that one increases the municipal budget with such large appropriations as one does. I think it's good that one makes changes to the tax-free system, which is a reasonable grip. I'm also glad that one doesn't spend more oil money, because I know how tempting it is to spend a little more to get in a little more of the good purposes one wants. I fully agree with the Minister of Finance that especially in times like this, when many are concerned about increasing interest rates and we know that things are going better in the Norwegian economy, it is important that we manage to hold back. But I will also promise the Minister of Finance that the Christian People's Party will say clearly when we disagree. When one comes to the budget, the first sentence is that the aid budget is reduced by 750 million. kr. It disappoints me. Much of the great effort on the aid budget is, among other things, an climate investment fund, where we're going to generate maybe 10 billion. NOK, which in turn might mean 100 billion. kr in investment in new renewable energy instead of coal-fired power plants – solar, wind and other renewable sources in the poorest countries, which means a huge amount to reduce emissions. So the bill for that sends the new government to the world's poorest. Those are the ones who have to pay the bill for cutting the emissions. That's where we're going to protest. It was a review tone that there were now other answers, a new direction. Unfortunately, it is also a new direction for families. The leisure card, which we assumed would give approx. Half of the children in Norway spend 2000 kroner a year from next year — whether it was in Bergen or it was Stavanger, Trondheim, Tromsø, Bodø, Kristiansand, Kvinesdal, etc. – take them away. It will mean a huge amount to many children and young people between the ages of 6 and 18 who are not involved in leisure activities. Now it would be free for them. They could use the leisure card and participate in leisure activities. If it's not normal kids and normal kids who today feel like they're not coming to the game, I don't know. I can't believe the government chooses to scrape that project. The cuts in cash support have begun. This budget shall be entered in the first month. We know from the Hurdal platform that it's going to take another six months. In the case of the parental deduction, which would give an increase from NOK 15 000 to NOK 25 000 for those who have child number two or three in the kindergarten, the change we proposed is not made. It's also a bigger cut in private kindergartens, with $170 million. kr. The contact family scheme, which is important for all those who experience being informed that the child they carry may have a serious illness or challenges, may be removed. Training courses for first-time parents shall be cut. The list is long for the families. Unfortunately, it is a completely different direction, a completely new course, than the Christian People's Party had. When the Minister of Finance is from the Center Party, it may particularly disappoint me.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-08.ana.ud137e553	Even in such a large state budget as we have in Norway, it is very demanding priorities to go through. When we were going to make priorities, one of the things we thought we had to give priority to children's and family, the state child protection. I think it was a right and important priority, so we raised 100 million. kr to it. We also believed that the action plan to include children and young people, which is a targeted scheme, was the main way to go, and we increased it to 550 million. kr. It does not meet everyone in the same way as the leisure card system, but it hits those who need it the most — a targeted, good order. Then we thought about the arrangement that was going to hit everyone. Then we went into the cultural sector and prioritised VAT compensation, because it stimulates voluntary work. One can get a lot of added value from the fact that those who facilitate football or sports of other kinds or choirs or whatever it should be, notice that the money they take in goes to activity. That's why we prioritised it. And then we put on, as the representative Ropstad said – it's a rare diet in a big room that an opposition politician praises the new government, but he praised us for increasing the municipal economy, and I must thank you for that. It is precisely because it gives municipalities greater opportunities to adapt leisure services, helping those with additional challenges. And then I have several times promised resource-intensive services. That's why we've prioritised what we've done. When you see the sum of priorities, you'll notice that it's a pretty powerful effort on children and young people, and especially on those who have extra big challenges. If you also look at the tax profile, the ones that benefit most from the tax reforms we do are people with low and medium incomes. Therefore, the overall budget is a good and balanced one that will strengthen volunteering and strengthen the daily lives of many young people. Not least, it is also good that we have now reduced the maximum price in the nursery.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-08.ana.ud137e562	Thank you for your answer. I know that there are difficult priorities to do, but many of these measures are targeted measures for families. What's the reason for a kissing the life courses for those who are going to have their first child? It is such a targeted measure to prevent, which I know is also important for this government. The leisure card is an entirely new measure, which will be targeted. I received a letter that a boy was walking around carrying a card, and he said he was unique, because he had received NOK 2000 which he could spend on his leisure activities. There are so many people who experience that their parents don't prioritize it. Here they will get it for free – a new way to do it. In this room we have prioritised children and young people in so many ways. Here was a completely new, targeted measure, which the government chooses to scrap. I'm asking you to reconsider, that you can look through the trials and see if this is something that you can still find room to come up with. The same applies to tax deductions in respect of non-profit institutions serving households. That the Center Party chooses to cut it, which is also a targeted measure to stimulate people to give to non-governmental organisations, from 50,000 to 25 000 kroner, I also find disappointing. But we have to go thoroughly into the budget, we have to be constructive, and we have to try to prevent it from becoming a new direction for the world's poorest – that it is not taken from the world's poorest when we are going to make the tough priorities. We're going to give priority to volunteering, and we're going to lift the non-profit sector, because I know that when the cuts in private kindergartens or the capital grant until the colleges come, there are a lot of ideal, small kindergartens or schools that will be hit, and it's the voluntary forces that offer an alternative. When we were in government, we were prioritizing the world's poorest, we were strengthening the families purposefully, we were creating new jobs, and we were not least contributing to the transition to a new and greener direction. The increase in the taxes on wealth, for example: tractors, machinery, equipment and fishing boats know that the Minister of Finance particularly affects small and medium-sized enterprises in the districts. Is that what we need now, is that they have capital to cope with the transition and to create new, important jobs for people living around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-08.ana.ud137e577	What is the main line of the state budget now presented is that the Workers' Party-Center Party government has faith in using the policy to balance differences. The debate that has been held here now also shows that there are quite different views on this, where the right is trying to almost disincentive the draft budget and say: what is the project? What's the point? Well, the project is that we want to develop all of Norway. It's a pretty big project – that we have ambitions that it will be possible to live good lives from North Cape in the north to Lindesnes in the south. It's a huge project, and we're doing a lot of work for it. And then we have a project that no matter what background you have, you have to have equal opportunities – whether you come from a rich home or from a poor home. We want to use the policy to balance social differences. It's actually the Norwegian project summarized; we want a country with little differences between people wherever you come from, no matter what economic background you have. And the Workers' Party-Center Party government believes that we can use the policy to achieve that goal. It's the big project. We have the basic idea that we who sit and rule now are lucky, because there have been some strategists before us who have made wise choices that make us have completely unique opportunities. National ownership, national ownership and control of natural resources have been ensured, which has resulted in the construction of jobs, the provision of valuables and an enormous national wealth that hardly exists in any other country. When we spent so much time on it in financial terms, it was just to emphasize that now it is our job to manage that legacy further. But we also have to make wise choices that make the generations that come after us, whether as state councils or as elected representatives, have the same opportunity as what we have, to create good, safe lives. The whole purpose of economic policy is to create a secure framework around people's lives, that everyday life is good, that it is safe, that you can have dreams of the future and have some visions – wherever you come from. That's our project. I am very proud and happy to be part of a government that has the project, that we will also have a Norway with small social differences and small geographical differences in the future, and that, when we convert Norway into a more climate-friendly society, we will always have that clue with us. We're going to convert, create jobs, but it's always going to be with confidence and optimism, regardless of background, no matter where we live. I am looking forward to close and good cooperation with the Stortinget on the budgetary process. It's always a nice adventure and a lot of rounds. I thank you for a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-08.ana.ud137e588	The President will propose that the Minister of Finance's statement on changes to Prop. 1 S for 2021-2022 and Prop. 1 LS for 2021–2022 on the State budget 2022 is being provided for treatment in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
