ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-09.ana.ud363e50	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-09.ana.ud363e66	No one has asked for the word
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-09.ana.ud363e83	The President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-09.ana.ud363e91	In this setting, we will treat Prop. 8 S for 2021-2022, about an increase in the 2021 bump to cover an exceptional payment to the recipients in those parts of the country that now have very high power prices, and besides a representative proposal from Red. We treat this matter quickly because it's urgent. There's a joint committee that supports the proposition made by the government, and there's a joint committee that thinks it's important to have measures that can meet the high power prices we see now, which specifically frame those with low incomes. The power prices have been and are very high in parts of the country, especially in the areas south of Sognefjord and Dovreberg. The government therefore proposes an exceptional payment to households that received housing in these areas, and that one make the payments now in November, at the same time as the ordinary housing allowance is paid. I would like to refer to the representative from the Council of State for a reply. The Labour Party and the Centre Party support that assessment. We support several of the intentions in the proposals, but as we refer to in the setting, we think we should wait for the expert group to look at the whole buffer support scheme and deliver its setting in May. Nor is it that a single person can make a change in the support system now without making any other changes, and the government said that it was urgent to come to the Stortinget now, so that we could get to the extraordinary payments for November. The government is taking several steps to improve the quality of everyday life for ordinary people, including those with power bills. Yesterday the additional number came, and that reduces us, among other things. The electricity charge is significant. We are now embarking on a much better distribution policy with lower kindergarten prices, a more demanding tax system, an increase in commuting deduction, a doubling of the trade union deduction, and, as you can see, the municipalities will have a significantly larger room for action for 2022 with an increase in free income of over 2.5 billion. kr. All in all, the holistic distribution policy is also important for the economy of ordinary people. Increased bump support may not reach all of its current high power costs. Therefore, it is important to remember that municipalities have the opportunity to show discretion when paying social assistance. In the Labour Party and the Centre, we believe that social assistance is more accurate to the individual’s needs, and that municipalities help people more quickly at work if we in Stortinget do not control municipalities in detail about the use of social assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-09.ana.ud363e106	In recent years, electricity prices have been very high, and such large increases may be difficult to bear for families with a strenuous economy. A unanimous increase therefore instructed the government to make proposals for the temporary strengthening of housing aid and social assistance that could remedy the situation. The previous government also arranged for a similar payment earlier. We in the right think it is good that the government has come back quickly to Stortinget with this matter. At the same time, we think the government is somewhat remote from the municipalities. The government writes that municipalities should take into account high electricity prices in the measurement of social assistance, and that the Minister of Labour and Inclusion will ‘remember municipalities’ about this. This is getting too passive. I don't think the government is getting far with just reminders. We in the Right refer to the supervisor for the treatment of matters of financial welfare under the pandemic, which has been decided to continue out by 2021. This guide shows, among other things: that municipalities should be deterred from imposing conditions on, inter alia: disposal of assets for social assistance, as the need is likely to be short-term. We in the right have therefore asked the government in our comments to ensure that this guide can also be applied as far as it fits with the high power prices, and if necessary in 2022. I further point out that the municipal sector under the previous government was compensated for the extraordinary costs related to the coronary apathy, and we in the Right therefore want the government to assess whether there is a need to compensate the municipalities for the additional costs associated with the strengthening of social assistance, as we have described in our remarks. With regard to the representative proposal from Red, we refer to our other comments in the consideration of the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-09.ana.ud363e119	Interestingly, here are both the two largest parties up here and are trying to take credit for this big case of who took the initiative to get those who are tired of paying the electricity bills to get a couple of dollars in support of the bill in November. We in the Progress Party think that this is too small, so even if we were in the call decision, we need to do far more than that, especially in the light of the situation that if someone really has switched on the high electricity prices, it is the state that charges huge taxes on both VAT and electricity. That one will give back the poor 202 million. kr to those who have to pay the bills, when one simultaneously collects billions in extra income, seems to us a little generous and too little compared to what I think would be natural. We would also like, as I mentioned in the debate on speeches and declarations, to carry out large tax cuts, tax cuts and reductions in VAT, so that people can be able to pay their own bills. There would be room for much to do, especially in the light of the revenue that the government will receive both this year from increased electricity prices and not least next year. It would be very interesting if someone from the government or government party could have said if the government gets more revenue related to power prices to next year than this year. Is the fees going up the krona for the state? It would be very interesting to get an answer. Unfortunately, it doesn't seem like there's any other party that joins our proposal to have a crisis package for ordinary people, and to raise the students and minimum pension lists, as we do in our proposals. But what surprises me a little bit is that we don't know about these 202 million. kr goes to Norwegian municipalities or to those paying the bills, because there is no guarantee that these money actually hits those who are going to pay the bills. We know that a lot of people who get support, also get social help, and it's not expressed by a multiple in any proposal here that municipalities should give the same social assistance regardless of whether the state increases, so actually a lot of these 202 million can. kr go to Norwegian municipalities instead of to ordinary people. It's a little bit special, that one starts this period, which is going to be in the spirit of ordinary people, by giving money to Norwegian municipalities instead of giving them to those that the Storting actually wants to give them to. But there is a proposal from Red, SV and the Progress Party that actually means that these money should go to ordinary people, not Norwegian municipalities. Based on the article by Kapur from the Right, it sounded like he was united. Then he would like to join that proposal, so Stortinget says clearly that these money will go to ordinary people and not to Norwegian municipalities. I'm taking up the suggestions the Progress Party is part of, and they're all on our own.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-09.ana.ud363e128	The representative Helge André Njåstad has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-09.ana.ud363e133	Increased inequality has concrete consequences. This means that large and small expenditure increases can have serious consequences for many. So let's see. We meet for a winter, and the power prices are sky-high. New records are constantly being set and unfortunately not by the positive impact. On the contrary, we read about people who experience that they have to choose between food and heat. Fortunately, there is a broad consensus that this must be addressed, and SV looks with optimism at a majority for increased housing support payments in November. These are measures that are too many, but unfortunately there are even more that will not be reached with an additional housing support payment. It is therefore important to put in place several temporary schemes, mainly based on the systems we have today. In addition to the housing support of the House Bank, we also suggest that the Loan Fund can provide a power grant to full-time students, who are also a low-income group. A lot of students have also lost their income under the pandemic, and that doesn't make it any easier either. We must ensure that those who receive this one-off aid do not lose it again by shortening it to other benefits, which unfortunately are practices around. Then the win goes into the spin, and there is only one bureaucratic exercise in moving money. Municipalities have tight budgets, and it is important that we take responsibility for compensating for the increased expenditure that municipalities receive. It is hoped that there are several people who see the need for us to take a state responsibility in a present emergency situation. So now, as under the pandemic, there will be more people in need of Nav's help. It is therefore important to be careful with the use of conditions such as the disposal of dwellings, cars and other assets, as this has been considered to be a short-term relief. Then we must continue to work on a broad and good review of our housing support system. Not least there is a need to view Nav as a system. Unfortunately, we have to expect high electricity prices throughout the winter, and the winter in Norway is not over in November, as is well known. SV asks the government to follow closely and also act quickly for the following months. It is soon Christmas, and it is approaching a heavy bill in January. There are a lot of people who are going to get disproportionately tough. In summary: an exceptional payment in November, and there is likely to be a need for assistance in the following months. We have to make sure that this help is not curtailed, and that the municipalities are compensated for the additional costs they have. Students are also in need of help, and a power grant should be provided to them. We have to make sure that Nav is careful with terms and abbreviations. Furthermore, we need to work on a better housing support scheme, which we are in the process of including electricity and heating costs. SV maintains its proposals with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-09.ana.ud363e152	The representative Grete Wold has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-09.ana.ud363e157	We are in a harvest where records are set more often than before – not on skis, not on leisure. These records are about power prices that have gone hard beyond the wallets of people. It is quite strange, in Red's view, that we have at all a market system that enriches the power companies, while ordinary people know of more pressing times. Therefore, it is also particularly important in the future that we say no to new foreign tables, which send the export and price further to the weather. That being said, it was good that the Stortinget agreed in October that an exceptional payment of housing aid to remedy the situation was necessary. However, Red believes that the current housing support system is not sufficient to help all those who are struggling to pay for heating costs and that the housing support system has been eroded for too long and needs to be strengthened, so that others are also covered by it. We have to make sure that the money comes to those who need it, and I am afraid that the decision we are making here today, however, will not lead to change for many. The government's proposal for power support through housing support can quickly be money-moving because many social welfare beneficiaries are being helped with the flow from before and increased housing support is being counted as income and deducted from social assistance. Let me read out parts of a letter I received yesterday: Notice of possible change of decision. You have been granted social assistance for living expenses based on your financial situation at the time of the decision. If you receive extra housing support payment from the House Bank in November, Nav Bergen west will make a new calculation in your case. This is giving with one hand and taking with the other. It's a number on a sheet and nothing but money moving. It's not going to work at all. Therefore, with the support of SV and the Advance Party, Red proposes to ensure that payments of housing aid should not be deducted from other benefits. It's just about justice. It's about securing those sitting at the bottom of the table, especially if it's going to be the turn of ordinary people – which we've always heard. Red believes that today's housing support system is not sufficient to help everyone pay for the sky-high current bills they now have during the current power crisis. Therefore, we believe that in today's situation it is right to lower the threshold in order to cover the power bill at Nav without triggering burdensome requirements, as today's need test practice works. Red therefore suggests that, when examining applications for social assistance to cover high heating costs in the coming winter months 2021 to 2022, Nav does not impose conditions on the sale of the necessary assets such as housing, car or other valuables or on the use of savings. No one shall be forced to sell the house and home, car or empty the savings account to pay the electricity bill in the time to come. With that, I refer you to the suggestions in the vote. We are going to vote in favour of the proposal No. 8 and 11, and I'm also dealing with Red's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-09.ana.ud363e176	The representative Tobias Drvland Lund then brought up the Red's proposal on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-09.ana.ud363e181	This fall we have experienced – and we still experience it – power prices that create great challenges for those who have problems paying the electricity bill. Today, the media report an additional power price record. It goes right into the everyday life of many people who have more than enough to cover the cost of living. It is good and necessary that the government quickly came on the track with proposals for increased housing aid appropriations to cover the unusually high electricity prices. The government assumes that there are 66 000 recipients involved. The high power prices require immediate action, and I am pleased that the Storting is able to deliver as quickly as possible. Nevertheless, the Left considers that there are not only permanent beneficiaries of housing aid that should be covered by such a scheme. Also full-time students, who the government does not mention with a single word, should receive support. We are therefore pleased that the Progress Party, SV and Red are behind us in the Left when we propose that the government return with a power grant scheme for the winter 2021/2022, as an extra grant for all full-time students. Unfortunately for the students, there may not be a majority in favour of that proposal. The high electricity prices are strongly influenced by the weather. As a hydropower nation, we usually enjoy it, but right now there is little wind, little rain and low temperature in us in the East. The next ten years can be crucial for what it will be like to live on earth over the next hundred years. That's how we, as the population, use the energy in the future that will determine when we reach the targets, or whether we're going to be the generation that failed. We're going to see pretty big results in energy prices in the next few years, and it's important that we respond the wisest way. I hope that the government will not be hasty when, as announced in the Hurdal platform, they will investigate how Norwegian exports of power affect the security of supply of power and Norwegian electricity prices. But that's another discussion. The Left supports the Committee's recommendation and hopes that the measures will have the desired effect. In addition, we will vote in favour of our own proposal, proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox At the same time, I would like to signal that we are going to vote in favour of proposal No. 2, which I am fully aware of will require a legislative amendment, the proposals No. 4 and 9, in addition to proposal No. 11, from the Green Party, which was delivered today, and which I also think makes sense. This is also about the fact that those who have the worst advice should also have the opportunity to take energy saving measures. That would make sense. It can also be mentioned here that the majority of the energy plants are owned by the public, either by municipalities or county municipalities, and in the situation we are in now, I had a hope that we could have moved around quite quickly. Especially here in the East, there are now quite high electricity prices, also historically.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-09.ana.ud363e199	The next speaker is Raunand Ismail.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-09.ana.ud363e204	The president was able to pronounce my name this time, even if you couldn't do the previous one. But it's the first time in the pulpit, so I apologize. For some it was expensive to make dinner yesterday. Others might have given up making dinner at all. Yesterday we reached a new year stop at electricity prices. We call the situation a power crisis, and those of us with the worst of advice are hit as the most known in crises. It is good that today we will decide that the recipients of the housing support now receive some help for high electricity bills. But there is a lack of perspective, because what really is the reason why such immediate action is needed? This is not the last time we want to experience high and unstable power prices. Are we going to deal with immediate action every time, or are we going to do something about the cause of the problem? After eight years with a civil government, the differences in the country have increased. The growing inequality is one of the main reasons why people freeze in their own living room, because they're worried about the next power bill. That problem needs to be solved with a fairer tax policy. Here we need a stronger slope than the government announced yesterday. Another explanation that many people need crisis relief has been primarily about energy saving. It's been a total failure. Government after government has ignored the fact that the most natural and climate-friendly power plant we have is energy saving. The energy saving measures that have existed have been first and foremost available to them by us with the thickest wallet. There has been a demand for a high proportion of goods. Tenants have not had any new ones, and you have also given the most help to those who need it at all. Earlier this autumn, the MDG proposed a package of measures for energy saving in low-income households and for people renting housing. Today, we propose that the funds Enova has not been able to distribute to private households in 2021, that energy efficiency measures be earmarked in municipal housing and other measures that take low-income groups. It will be a good start to a new and more social energy saving policy. In the debate on sky-high electricity prices, over 300,000 students in the country have been forgotten. Most students have to work alongside the studies to cover basic expenses. Some of the students have to work so much that it goes beyond the studies. One third of them have to use credit cards to make ends meet. If these had been ordinary workers, we would have called them poor, but since they're students, many politicians have accepted that they have it like that. It is therefore proposed by the MDG today to increase study aid to a level equivalent to 1.5 times the basic amount for November and December this year. We believe that this is a natural addition to the proposal we are adopting here today on increased housing support. Finally, I would like to inform you that the Greens will vote in favour of the good proposals promoted by the Red, the Advance Party and the SV. With this, I address the proposals that the MDG has made.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-09.ana.ud363e221	The representative Rauand Ismail has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-09.ana.ud363e226	This fall we have seen record power prices in parts of the country. The consequence has been that many have received high electricity bills, and for those with low revenues this is a particularly demanding situation. The government therefore proposes that the Husbank should already make an exceptional payment on 20 November to those who are then receiving housing support. We propose a simple model that we know from before, by March this year at the latest. The difference from the previous one is that this time we limit the measure to those parts of the country where power prices are now unusually high. At my discretion, this proposal responds well to the Storting's request to strengthen housing and social assistance, which was adopted only the day before we made this proposition. After the proposition was presented, we have registered concerns from people who do not usually receive housing support, about how to manage their electricity costs. Let me therefore stress this: an extra payment to those receiving housing support is a good measure that reaches many, but it does not replace the usual arrangements in the welfare state. Many people who do not have a requirement for housing can also wear out the electricity bills. Economic support under the Social Services Act is an important safety net. This is the responsibility of the municipalities, and I am sure they will handle this responsibility in a good way. Nevertheless, we are now in an extraordinary situation. As announced in the proposal, the Minister of Labour and Inclusion has sent a letter to the municipalities, referring to the exceptional situation and pointing out the room for action of the municipalities. I do not overlook the fact that some municipalities can experience that electricity prices both now in the autumn and earlier this year have triggered relief needs that challenge the municipal budgets. If the extra payment we have now proposed offsets some of this need for assistance and thus relieves some municipalities, it is a good example that state and municipal efforts interact and complement each other. We are also discussing today proposals from the representatives of Drivland Lund, Sneve Martinussen and Marhaug on immediate help with the electricity bill for people with poor advice. This proposal coincides, on the one hand, with the government's proposals. When the government proposes to use the House Bank and housing support system to convey an extra payment, it is because we know that it is fast, efficient and reasonable. I have assessed point 1 of the draft representative to include all those who have housing support for at least one month in the fourth quarter. It could have been a good idea, but unfortunately it will require major and costly changes in the Husbank's systems. It would also take longer than our solution – more time than I feel we have. The same applies to point 2 of the proposal on a new temporary scheme for those not receiving housing aid. It is a time-consuming and labor-intensive process to create a new economic system, and it will not respond to the acute problem that many now experience. With regard to point 3 of the proposal on permanent changes in housing aid to take account of electricity costs, I refer to the expert group appointed by the previous government, which will report on 1 May, and will therefore recommend to wait for it before considering it further.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-09.ana.ud363e241	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-09.ana.ud363e246	My question is what was the main theme of my post, which is the concern many of us have that these money will go to Norwegian municipalities instead of to those who need it the most, because one can shorten social assistance. Can the Council of State say if he shares that concern? Could it be a scenario that such types of decisions as the representative from the Red University would become the standard in Norwegian municipalities, or would take a turn – unless a majority voted in favour of a proposal that would ensure that this would not happen. Does the government have a plan to act, so that it doesn't become the rule that a person sends such messages to those who need it the most?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-09.ana.ud363e251	The issue now is to compensate households with poor finances for increased electricity costs. The way it happens isn't the most important thing. If it occurs via reinforced housing support and/or increased social assistance, it is not the most important thing. The point must be that we ensure compensation for those who have now received increased costs. Economic social assistance is such that the necessary expenditure on electricity is also part of what is to be assessed in that context. It does not need to mean that additional housing support will fully compensate for the electricity costs included in the lifetime of the receiver, but it is not unnatural that this will be seen in context when the purpose in total is to compensate for increased electricity costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-09.ana.ud363e256	This was a very bureaucratic answer, but it told me that the barn Nav Bergen had for that person, will be the standard, because one sees it in the big context. Then it is also important that Stortinget – if one thinks that these 202 million. NOK should be allocated to those who have high electricity costs, not to Norwegian municipalities – in fact, in favour of that proposal. So my question is: if the Storting is to adopt the proposal from the Red, SV and the Advance Party, will the government then ensure that it does – if it gets a plurality? It seems that it is intentional, but it will not happen unless the Storting explicitly states it in a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-09.ana.ud363e261	If the Stortinget were to take a decision, the government would have to deal with it, it is normal parliamentary practice. So the answer to that question is obvious yes, but I don't want the Stortinget to take such a decision, because there's an individual assessment of the individual's needs, that's what happens by measuring economic social assistance. I have to repeat that the purpose now is to compensate those who have high electricity costs and poor finances. We do that by looking at housing support and economic social assistance in the context.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-09.ana.ud363e266	As the Council of State itself was involved, the Minister of Labour and Inclusion, or the Government, would remind municipalities that particularly high electricity costs should be taken into account when measuring social assistance. At the same time: In my post I was in this supervisor who is about financial welfare under the pandemic, cf. also Right comments, and that it can also apply to the situation we are in now, both out of the year and into 2022. How does the government consider our comment to make the supervisor apply?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-09.ana.ud363e271	I perceive that what the Minister of Labour and Inclusion has sent me a letter is in line with what is the intention of the question I now receive. In the case of a supervisor, to which the representative Kapur refers, it is necessarily necessary to take as a basis the legal basis for doing so. And that is precisely what the Minister of Labour and Inclusion has pointed out, Section 19 of the Social Services Act, that financial assistance can be provided to those who need it in order to overcome or adapt to a difficult situation, even if the conditions of Section 18 are not fulfilled. So I perceive that what the Minister of Labour and Inclusion here has sent letters to the municipalities is in line with the intentions of that supervisor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-09.ana.ud363e277	More and more people report that unforeseen expenditure is not being managed. There are more and more people who report that the economy is tight, and as we see it now, with high electricity costs, it becomes difficult for many. It is well and good that we now have crisis solutions and temporary arrangements quickly and efficiently, but it would be much better if we had more flexible and more permanent arrangements in the systems we already have. Does the Council of State see the need for and will he consider a review of Nav and look at the support arrangements we have, precisely in view of the situations we now see, both after the pandemic and now, with this current situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-09.ana.ud363e282	The first thing we're looking at right now is the design of the housing stock. As I pointed out in my post, there is a sample that is now working, and will present its proposal on 1 May next year, where part of the mandate explicitly states whether electricity costs should be taken into account to a greater extent in measuring housing support for different groups. In this way, there is an assessment related to that question. When it comes to the question of Nav, I am a little uncertain about what the representative thinks. If it's economic social assistance, which is the municipal section of Nav, I assume that the provisions of the Social Services Act provide a good basis for municipal discretion and individual judgement. That's what you have to do for every person who needs it. Otherwise, in the case of other schemes, at least technological developments are required, which will take time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-09.ana.ud363e289	My thoughts are absolutely what the Council of State also has in mind, that we can look at the housing support system, and in so far also at other schemes managed by Nav. At the same time, we see that the degree of discretion is decreasing, as both the framework and not least the regulations become tighter and tighter. So to be able to put in place a plan where you have a greater degree of discretion, and maybe also a plan that is more ready where there are acute situations, and which you might be like. by political teams can start, I think would be a better solution. Is there anything the Council of State might consider looking at?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-09.ana.ud363e294	I'm a little uncertain about what is meant by tightening up the possibilities of discretionary exercise in relation to economic social assistance, so we might have to get back to that. Then we have a slightly bigger discussion about a trust reform, where we're just talking about the person who meets the user in the first line, that is, about having room to exercise his professional judgement, exercising his profession in dealing with the user, the patient, the student or the person who needs to perform. It is a concrete matter that we will continue to work on and come back to, because I believe that is very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-09.ana.ud363e301	Let me first say that I believe both the Council of State and I share the concern for those who are struggling to pay the electricity bills. That is also why this case is being dealt with here today. But I want to take up this letter that several people receive in these days, as I mentioned in my post, where you get notice that social assistance is cut at the other end when you get extra payment of housing support. How can the Council of State claim that this will benefit ordinary people if the money does not reach?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-09.ana.ud363e306	Then I have to repeat the message that the matter we are dealing with now is a proposal to help disadvantaged families pay their electricity bill, while the representative now raises, is well so much a discussion about the general level of benefits. That's a slightly different discussion than what we have today. If social assistance is too low, for example, or other benefits and housing support should have been higher, then to the extent that there is a fair case to discuss. But this case is about how we compensate them with poor finances, and some will then be compensated by increased housing support, while others will be compensated by increased social assistance or a combination of those support schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-09.ana.ud363e311	It's interesting to hear the answers to the Council of State. I want to stay a little bit with the students, because many of them will wear out something violent with this. The sum of that is that students may be in parts of the country where there is no challenge to the electricity price, end up applying for social assistance, because of course they have a challenge in being able to pay their expenses where a tenant is a student dwelling. It's almost a paradox that the government doesn't do its job to expand the number of student homes. So it might be part of the strategy, but this thing isn't about it. But I think it's strange that it's not possible to see this need for the students, which is essentially going to end up with other schemes, i.e. social assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-09.ana.ud363e316	A short time ago, the Minister of Higher Education answered a written question about the situation of students and the high electricity prices. He showed in this reply that the Loan Fund does not have its own application-based schemes for students with varying or limited needs for additional financial support, that there is a high level of standardised, machine-based treatment, and that the Loan Fund also has no possibility of distinguishing between those who may or may not need additional financial support. In this way, any discussion about the students had to be about a general payment to all students. I don't think I'm going to go further into that discussion right now, it falls a little out of my remit.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-09.ana.ud363e323	The cord shift is over. The speakers who have the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-09.ana.ud363e330	The electricity price is too high, and it is too much more than those that this matter is about. Many inhabitants of Fredrikstad, Sarpsborg, Halden, Moss, yes, large parts of Norway, especially the southern parts, are now concerned about the sky-high electricity prices. But it should not surprise anyone in this room that we have so high electricity prices, because it has been a misguided policy – from the Workers' Party, from the Center Party, from the Socialist Left Party, yes, even partly from the Right, Left and Christian People's Party. If we look back, the centre party had its stated ambition that Norway should be Europe's green battery, cost what it would cost. There has also been a fairly large cross-political agreement that society should be electrified. Several lots – with the exception of the Advance Party – also want to electrify the base. It should not surprise anyone that when you then increase the demand for electricity, without the offer increasing, something happens with prices. That's some of the reason why the sky-high power prices we now have, which is a wild policy in the name of the climate – salute the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the other parties. Today, the chairman of the Committee, the representative, is also in this chair and speaks of the new government adding to significant reductions in the electricity charge. It is with respect to report a little cheating on figures, because the fact is that the inhabitants of Norway will never pay more in electricity-related charges in the future than they have done now. Today's government proposes to charge more electricity tax and VAT than consumers have paid in the past. At the same time, the Center Party, the Workers' Party and the other parties choose to say no to the Progress Party solution, which would actually reduce the electricity price for most people. The Progress Party is clear that we should abolish the electricity tax and VAT now, as an immediate measure, which would benefit ordinary people or people most. Unfortunately, the majority of the population chooses that consumers in Norway pay sky-high electricity prices and historically much electricity-related charges.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-09.ana.ud363e341	I hear that the representative Wiborg is attacking other parties to want a higher electricity price. That's interesting. We need to look at what the Progress Party did when they themselves put in government and had both the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Oil and Energy. The party's own oil and energy minister, Tord Lien, said straight away that he was tired of low electricity prices in Norway – tired of low electricity prices! We need to look at what the Progress Party did. Now the Progress Party is talking about the need for lower electricity charges. With the Progress Party, which had the finance minister, the electricity charges increased by almost 50 pst. That's what happened when the Progress Party put in government. Another act that the Party's oil and energy ministers pointed to would give higher electricity prices, which was then expressed as a target, was to build more foreign tables. When the Progress Party was responsible, they changed the Norwegian law to enable them to build, among other things. The NorthConnect cables. The new government has made it quite clear that there are no more foreign tables to be built. So we have a clear goal of contributing to lowering the electricity price. The Progress Party must take responsibility for what they did when they were in charge, both with the Minister of Finance and with the Minister of Oil and Energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-09.ana.ud363e351	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox The issues on today's maps have been fully debated, and the Stortinget takes a break until voting time. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-09.ana.ud363e372	The Greens/Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens November shall be amended as per the second sentence of Section 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Grand Duchy from 9 November until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The sales representative, Rauand Ismail, continues to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-09.ana.ud363e403	Case No. 1 is the second reading of the law and applies to the Act 1. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-09.ana.ud363e443	A total of 12 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Helge André Njåstad on behalf of the Progressive Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Red Party and the Left Party the proposals No 2-4, from Helge André Njåstad on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party the proposals No 5-8, from Helge André Njåstad on behalf of the Progress Party proposal No 9, from Grete Wold on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party proposal No 10, from Tobias Drivenland Lund on behalf of Red the proposals No 11 and 12, from Rauand Ismail on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA The representative, Mr Kapur, has asked for the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-09.ana.ud363e469	I would like to give a quick explanation of vote – it concerns proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox In the light of the case, we assume that the increased housing allowance that Stortinget will now adopt will benefit the beneficiaries in line with the intention. We have also understood it so that a possible majority for proposal No. 2 could lead to regulatory changes, and we do not think that is appropriate in this particular case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-09.ana.ud363e474	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, Socialist Left Party, Red and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks to return with a power grant scheme for winter 2021/2022, as an additional grant to all full-time students to cover increased electricity costs this winter.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-09.ana.ud363e491	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that exceptional payments of housing aid are not deducted from other benefits’.» The Greens and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-09.ana.ud363e508	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for equal treatment of all those in need of housing aid in the autumn of 2021 by ensuring that all those who for various reasons do not qualify for housing aid in November 2021 but who were granted it in October 2021 also receive an exceptional payment.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-09.ana.ud363e526	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the strengthening of the housing support scheme so that several households with low income and high housing costs qualify for support.’ The Greens and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-09.ana.ud363e543	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to present a crisis package to ordinary people, reducing the tax burden so that more people can live on their own income’.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-09.ana.ud363e558	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to extend the discretionary means of allocating to housing costs in municipalities.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-09.ana.ud363e575	There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to make proposals to strengthen the student’s benefits in order to make them pay unforeseen high electricity costs.’ The Greens and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-09.ana.ud363e592	There is a vote on proposal No. 8 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for minimum pensioners to continue to be entitled to receive increased housing support even if the minimum pension has increased.’ The Socialist Left, the Left, the Red and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-09.ana.ud363e609	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to file a case for the Storting to ensure that electricity and heating costs are included in the basis for the payment of housing aid for all groups, regardless of whether this is paid through rent or common costs or not included in them.’ The Greens and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-09.ana.ud363e627	There is a vote on proposal No. 10 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking that, when examining applications for social assistance to cover high heating costs in the coming winter months of 2021/2022, Nav does not impose conditions on the sale of the necessary assets such as housing, car or other valuables or the use of savings.’; The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Christian People's Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-09.ana.ud363e644	There is a vote on proposal No. 11. from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the funds Enova has not been able to distribute to private households in 2021 the energy efficiency-enhancing measures in existing municipal housing and other measures taking low-income groups.’ The Socialist Left Party, the Red Party and the Left have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-09.ana.ud363e661	There is a vote on proposal No. 12 from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to the Storting with the proposal for changes to the State budget for 2021, where the study aid is increased to a level of 1.5 G for the months of November and December. The whole increase shall be paid as a grant.’;» The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal. Red has announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-09.ana.ud363e809	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
