ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e56	A number of permit applications are available: from the representatives of Per Olaf Lundteigen and Sveinung Rotevatn on leave from 22 to 26 November, and from the representative of Trine Lise Sundnes on leave from 23 to 26 November, all to attend meetings of the EFTA Parliamentary Committee in Brussels and Warsaw by Mr Åsmund Aukrust, Mr Per Martin Sandtrøen and Mr Solveig Vitanza on leave on 23 and 24 November – all to attend meetings with the EFTA Parliamentary Committee in Brussels by the Green Group in the Greens/European Parliament on leave under the second sentence of Section 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 November and until further notice, These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of Oslo, Sigrid Zurbuchen Heiberg, there is an application for exemption from meeting in Stortinget under the authority of the representative Lan Marie Nguyen Berg, on grounds of parental leave. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave as follows: For Akershus: Tobias Hangaard Linge 23–24. November For Buskerud: Sigrid Simensen Ilsøy 23-25. November For Hedmark: Ole Mathias Rønaasen 23-24. November For Hordaland: Ane Breivik 23.–26. November For Oslo: Agnes Near Willy Article 23-25. November and Rauand Ismail 18 November and until further notice For Eastfold: Shakeel Rehman 23-24. November
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e148	Rauand Ismail is present and will take the seat. The representative, Frank Edvard Sve, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e155	I have the honour to present a proposal for a representative on behalf of Bård Hoksrud, Carl I. Hagen, Tor André Johnsen, Dagfinn Henrik Olsen, Bengt Rune Strifeldt and myself on the change of the predatory game management.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e160	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The President will draw attention to the fact that the cases are No. 1 and 3 on today's maps have not been out in the regulatory period, i.e. 48 hours, cf. Rules of Procedure § 46. However, the President will propose that matters be dealt with. No objections have been raised — and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e182	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e189	A short time ago, the reopening was celebrated in Norway. The infection rates were low and the insertions were few, but over the past few weeks we've seen how fast things can change, and how unpredictable and prolonged this virus is. The pandemic is by no means over. We are aware that many of our professionals have been on guard for a long time and are aware of frustration and the fact that there should have been more colleagues. We are aware of the challenges, and they should be addressed. The size has adopted temporary legal provisions which have made it possible to lay down rules on isolation, on the quarantine, on quarantine and on the use of a corona certificate — provisions which shall also ensure the availability of medical devices and personal protective equipment. Provisions apply until 1 and 11 December of this year. We know that there is a need for further action. For this reason, the government has already tightened up in terms of measures and national recommendations, and several municipalities have put in place local measures as necessary. We need to have the opportunity to do this a little bit more, and that's why there's a proposal to extend until 1 July 2022. In the work on this pandemic, it is important that corruption and government work constructively to the benefit of people and countries. We are a new health committee and a new government that has now taken this further work. I would like to thank the Committee for constructive cooperation in our first week and in meeting this issue, and I look forward to further cooperation. At least from the side of the government parties, we're going to do our best to ensure good cooperation. Municipalities around the country are now experiencing high pressure and high loads. There are people on guard who take care of the most vulnerable among us — in the hospital, in the test station, in the hospital, in the intensive care unit and at the management level to coordinate and manage this for the benefit of the community. It is therefore important and good that the Minister of Health attaches great importance to direct dialogue and good information to its municipalities and rapporteurs. We also know that this pandemic has been very demanding for business, for many employees who fear work and safety. This applies in particular to travel life, leisure and catering, not least in my own municipality of Tromsø. The fact that we are now clarifying that Korona certificates can be used not only when society is reopening, but also when it is necessary to introduce new measures where we are now will be of great importance. This allows more people to go to work – not permitters, not quitters. It's an important social responsibility. But the most important thing we can do, all of us, is to vaccine ourselves, stay at home when we're sick, and to test ourselves. With that, I recommend the Committee's attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e206	Yesterday, November 17, it was two years since the first Corona case in the world became known. At the same time, we see new vector cords here at home – the highest we've had under the pandemic until now. A total of 995 deaths have now been recorded in Norway. Through the pandemic, we've seen that people's trust in the Norwegian authorities is high. We have seen in a number of studies that trust the authorities to handle the situation well. It's important, because when we, like today and through the pandemic, place limits on how people can live their lives to ensure that the infection doesn't spread – that people don't die – yes, we need that trust. The proposal before us today extends the temporary provisions until 1 July 2022, as the rapporteur explained in his statement. It is important for the Right that the government has the necessary means to handle the pandemic. At the same time, we have been concerned that we should not be uncritical. In this case, the Right has been critical. We have asked if the government is allowed to introduce the changes that are in the law. We therefore requested legal assistance to provide a legal basis for the law to allow the use of a corona certificate, not only at a time when society is to be reopened, but also when new measures are needed to deal with a worsening of the infection situation. The Council of State responded by saying that it would not be necessary or appropriate to clarify the wording of the law at this point. We're going to take that for information, and we're going to assume that the government has the necessary foundation and that it's doing well. That's what we're concerned about in this room -- that even if law work goes fast, we have to make sure that law work is out there. When infection increases, it is the most vulnerable who live at the highest risk. We know that many, even today, live with limitations even though society has changed into a normal everyday life with increased preparedness.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e215	As a health care professional, a lot of joy and grief are experienced. Getting insights into life into the way health professionals do, both challenge and change one and make one richer as a person. Those who work in health are proud of their job and the skills they have. It is no secret that the time since 12 March 2020 has been challenging and exciting. For many who work in health, it's bad, many have our fears, and many have laughs in the medicine room or in the shelter. I've done that myself. We've been afraid to infect our patients, be weary of congestion, and hurt because one so often feels that one is coming short. Health professionals are close to patients and have really felt despair and loneliness in these meetings. Many of the tools available to men and women in white health care have been removed during the pandemic, such as conversations, contact with relatives, practical assistance, visits, interdisciplinary work and much more. That still has our new information. It has changed from day to day several times, and daily operating frameworks and regulations have changed rapidly. On an already overburdened health care system, the coronary apathy has burdened even more. One of the biggest threats in March last year was that health services should go down – as we saw in other countries. We've been able to avoid this, but the pandemic is not over. Today, we are asking for the extension of temporary regulatory housings for the management of the coronary apathy. Measures may be necessary after December, but we do not know that now. We still have to have these homes to support us, because we know that the infection in society is increasing. Many have filed, many have planned treatment delayed, and many municipalities are forced to introduce local measures. What we also know is that most of the people infected and admitted are unvaccinated. The solution should not be to put in place national measures and force the few percentages of health professionals left to vaccinate, increase the level of preparedness in hospitals or postpone scheduled treatments. Nevertheless, this is happening. The solution is to test yourself when you have to and accept the vaccine when you have a chance.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e228	For almost two years, the population of Norway has lived by the exemption laws. At the same time, we begin to realize the contours of the fact that we have to commit ourselves to living with the pandemic for several years, because the broth of the population of the world is still unvaccinated, and as we have seen under this pandemic, the world is connected, and people are moving across borders. We in SV are very concerned that the new government has taken the same line as the outgoing government, where you will be given powers and exemptions instead of submitting legislative proposals to the Stortinget. This continues to challenge the relationship between magnification and government. We are also very concerned that the provisions for Korona Certificate are not more strongly anchored in the Stortinget. We pointed this out, together with, among others. the Central Party of Government, when introduced in June of this year. And we're going to repeat that again. Norway has been different throughout the pandemic. We are the country where the population has had great confidence in the authorities, where many have complied with the infectious health and safety recommendations, and where volunteering and authorities have coexisted in those places where there has been extra need. We're still dependent on the confidence of the population. For this reason, we are proposing in EN today a safety valve that ensures that if at least one third of the members of the Storting cannot support the regulation, or parts of it, and expresses this in writing in line with the agreed working arrangements in Stortinget, the Ministry is obliged to repeal the relevant provisions immediately. With this I address all the SV's suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e241	The representative Marian Hussein then addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e246	Increased infection rates, hospitalisations and stress are giving rise to legitimate concern. It is therefore important both to prevent infection and to ensure that all those who get sick receive the health care they need. A pandemic that can make people sick must also be confronted with infectious measures. It is important that these measures are well democratically anchored and professionally justified and that information to the population is readily available. We are promoting two proposals together with SV today. One concerns the provisions for the domestic use of a corona certificate and any limitations on the areas where the certificate can and cannot be used. This is important because we need to know how far a government can go, and it has to be determined by law. This may apply to services such as: public institutions, educational institutions and shops. It must be open to anyone who is not in isolation or quarantine. The second proposal seeks to promote the covid-19 provisions of the regulation on isolation, quarantine and corona hotels as legislative proposals, so that the Stortinget can take a decision on these provisions in line with the requirements of the infectious diseases law and the Civil Protection Act. The Association of Advocates is negative to the proposal to extend the temporary regulation on the quarantine accommodation scheme and justifies it by its ‘interventional nature, unclear target group and lack of documented effect’. The government has quite extended powers under the IPD, e.g. the possibility of introducing new rules for the implementation of emergency and intervention measures necessary to protect the population from infectious disease. There may be a need to act quickly and to ensure public health when infectious diseases are at risk. The previous government has also done so several times, with great political excitement. We share the concern that the new government continues in the same street, without making legislative proposals to Stortinget. The current situation is not an argument that intervention measures cannot be sent afterwards to the Stortinget for normal treatment. Democracy must also be a time of crisis. These matters, what we are dealing with today, must also be seen in relation to the relationship between big business and government. Red will support the safety valve proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e263	It's a challenging time for both individuals and not least society as a whole. And it's been a hard time. Many people experience challenges in business, and not least in health services, and there is an increase in infection rates. It is absolutely essential that we trust the authorities – and it is high. That's why it's also important that we deal with it in a good way. It is also important that we do not feel that someone is being put on the outside. At the same time, one cannot necessarily be uncritical of new regulations. That is why we have of course considered SV's proposals in the case, but we think, as the situation is now, that we need to continue the restrictions we have. The left is not in the Health and Care Committee, but we will support the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e270	I wish I could say that the pandemic is over, but the pandemic is in no way over – neither here at home nor in the world. And not as a fired intensive nurse, but as an intensive nurse, I know it every day when I hear about the situation in hospitals and full intensive care units. That is why I am inexorably pleased that this is a recommendation from a unanimous committee. We need to use all the tools and measures to keep the pandemic in check and make sure that we get rid of the pandemic. All instruments include vaccines, but also corona certificates – if necessary. Therefore, I would strongly urge all those who can, to take the vaccine, and all of us to deal with all the professional advice we now receive. It also needs to be easily accessible to all those who have an incredible number of questions. That information must be in the language that people need to wear to understand what is being said. All measures that can help keep the infection in the chess and the most open society are important. Precautions between the level of infection and the measures taken are also important — both in terms of the measures taken and when they are to be terminated. That we're a total mass means a lot. I also know that the Minister of Health needs a big deal behind him, because this isn't really just about our own country, it's also about us as an international society.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e279	The Infectious Diseases Act and the Health Protection Act are emergency laws in which the Stortinget has authorised the government to take the necessary measures to address, inter alia, the problem of infectious diseases. a pandemic such as covid-19. Experience from the pandemic has shown us that it is necessary to act quickly and to adjust the measures frequently in order to be proportionate, effective and as low a level of intervention as possible. It requires legal provisions that provide a general framework for detailed regulations. In meeting with the pandemic, it turned out that there was also a need for more and clearer prescription homes than what you already had. The size has therefore adopted temporary legal provisions allowing for regulatory rules on isolation, infectious quarantine, quarantine and use of corona certificates. These provisions shall also ensure the availability of medical devices and personal protective equipment. We are still reminded that the pandemic is not over. The provisions now apply until 1 and 11 December of this year, but unfortunately they may need to be slightly longer. Other countries put in place stringent measures to tackle highly increasing infections. We have just tightened up national measures and recommendations, and several municipalities have seen the need to implement local measures. The government would have had the opportunity, if necessary, to issue regulations under the extraordinary powers of the IPD, but I think it would be better for the Stortinget to decide whether the existing funds can be extended by an ordinary legislative process. I am very pleased that the majority of the committee agrees with that. I am also pleased that the Committee believes that the use of a corona certificate can be regulated, not only at a time when society will be reopened, but also when new measures are needed to deal with a worsening of the infection situation. There is the possibility of regulation of infection protection measures with anchoring in the Storting which is now being extended. In any case, the actual measures laid down by the Regulation shall not be more stringent than those which are at all times both necessary and proportionate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e291	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e296	It is clarified in the setting and from the government that ‘the regulatory homes can only be used if covid-19 is considered a general dangerous infectious disease’. The last two press conferences have not commented on the opinions of the Public Health Institute and the Health Directorate that covid-19 is no longer a serious outbreak of general dangerous disease. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State: what is the case when the corona virus is only defined as a common infectious disease, no longer as a serious outbreak?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e301	It is the description of covid-19 as a disease of general concern which causes the regulation to remain in force. The description of serious outbreaks from the FHI is probably also to justify not introducing new national measures this time. Now we have local outbreaks, where local measures are being taken to deal with outbreaks of infection. The municipalities have the opportunity, by introducing local regulations, to impose measures such as distance limits, mouthbands, etc. So last week the government also came with some national measures for, among other things. testing of non-vaccinated close contacts. We introduced an obligation there. But the nuance that the representative points out is probably related to the locality of the situation and not to a serious nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e308	An important part of dealing with the pandemic has been the vaccination, and we are happy that very many follow up and take the vaccine. Now the Institute of Public Health has opened the way for this booster dose to be set after five months for them under 65 years of age. Then my question becomes: why wait until next year with the vaccination of them under 65 when they have now waited more than six months? Could it not have started this vaccination right now to ensure that as much booster as possible is given as early as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e313	The representative, Wilhelmsen Trøen, takes up something very important. The reason we chose to go out with information that everyone will be offered a third refresher after a while was to give the municipalities a clear message that they need to maintain their vaccine offerings. Then it is very important that the municipalities intensify the work of setting a third refresher for them over 65 years. We've carefully followed the number of posts and we see the age mean on them, and getting a refresher for this group we think we're in a hurry. There was also a slightly different recommendation from the Public Health Institute in the beginning, that you should take the influenza vaccine before the third dose. They've changed it, and they're also choosing to change the range from dose 2, and it's probably above all for this to go more smoothly.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e318	In connection with the vaccination in the municipalities, we have been so lucky that very much of the retired health professionals have participated. It is midwives, health nurses, nurses and doctors who have been a huge resource for municipalities when they are going to vaccinate many. I have actually addressed this question to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, but I have not received an answer, so I have to put it a little differently so that perhaps the Minister of Health can answer this. Does the Minister of Health see that it could now be a good idea to clarify the framework for these former health professionals groups and that they can actually participate in the vaccination in the municipalities without shortening their pension? This has probably been an important motivation, and it is also clear that their competence is recognised in this important work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e323	Yes, the Council of State thinks it would have been both reasonable and wise to continue the scheme where pensioners can contribute without affecting their pension. But it is the responsibility of the Minister of Labour, and the Minister of Labour will probably give the representative an answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e328	The word change with the previous replicator was about this with vaccination, and the low rate of vaccination among some of the population is some of the things that have worried a lot of us lately. Past experience under this pandemic suggests that there is not necessarily just a whip and a delimitation of the benefits of society that work to increase the degree of vaccination. Many, such as health professionals and volunteers, also tell about conversations and dissemination of information as one of the most important measures to get more people to vaccinate. My question to the Minister is: Is there enough information in the municipalities about the vaccine to meet people who are skeptical about vaccination, with information?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e337	The representative Hussein points to something very important, and the municipalities work to reach all parts of the population. Getting good information and translating the information into as many languages as possible is important for reaching all citizens in society. The municipalities have extensive dialogue with the Health Directorate, which is helpful. There are also different experiences from the municipalities, and I think the municipalities are really the best ones to find the good measures. There are, among other things: cooperated with representatives from different immigrant communities to ensure that part of the population. We also cooperate with employers who have migrant workers. So it's working after a lot of tracks and spending a lot of resources, and it's a very important work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e346	I am very pleased with the measures outlined by the Council of State, but at the same time we are going today, by introducing corona passports and delimiting social goods from part of the population, into a new era for Norway, because in Norway there has been confidence in vaccination and not forced vaccination, whether it is children, older people or health professionals who have been on the line. We don't know the professional recommendations the government has received from the FHI regarding the Korona Pass, but I hope that good considerations have been made for the introduction of the Korona Pass, so that we don't get a society where large parts of the population don't trust the authorities on these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e353	Maintaining trust is very important. That is why I am pleased that this proposition also has a unanimous attitude. And then I don't fully agree with the description by the representative Hussein, that we use a corona pass to cut off. For such reasons, and what is confirmed in the Committee’s recommendation today, the use of corona passports can be used to alleviate measures – in that order. It is also possible to legitimise with coronary passports through vaccine status, whether you have taken a vaccine, or whether you have undergone covid-19 disease and then have protection through antibodies or through a negative test. We don't want to shut anyone out in any way. The law is very clear that the home is in being able to facilitate action, to use it to make things easier.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e361	Trust is probably one of the few words that are equal to both ways when we read it. And trust is important to reach. The population uses a vaccine passport to go to different countries, because you can't come in if you don't bring it. At the same time, we feel that there are critical voices to a certificate in our own country. So my question is, how does the Council of State think we're going to be able to tell the part of the population that is extremely critical of what's in that certificate, about the possibility window in it, to create confidence both in deployment, if necessary, and for use?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e368	I think the representative Vervik Bollestad is interested in something very important. I also feel that we may not have the right to inform you well enough about what is allowed today in order to use the Korona Pass. It is in order to reduce the number of interventions that are initially intrusive. If you want to use it for something else – that's what the government is going to look at – and if the government wants to legislate it in law, it's going to be a whole new legal process, with a proposition that the Storting will decide on. It's very important to know that the way you can use a corona pass through this regulation, which is about to be ready, is to make it easier. And, as I said to the previous replicator, you can legitimize not only through the vaccine, even though I would very strongly encourage everyone to accept the vaccine, but also through the passed disease and negative test.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e375	So the chord change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e394	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e401	The Committee shares the view of the government that it is important to respect the rights of kindergarten children, students and participants under the introductory legislation where local measures for the protection of infectious diseases are needed. The Committee agrees with the government's assessment that it is necessary to continue the three provisional laws in order to ensure the necessary predictability and clear rules for the introduction of disease protection measures. The Committee notes that the rules of the provisional laws only provide for adaptations necessary as a result of measures to protect the disease and that the Ministry therefore considers it appropriate to continue the provisional laws until 31 June 2022. There are comments from the majority of the committee, and I guess they will explain them themselves in the debate. There have also been comments from a minority in the Committee, and I shall now move on to present the Red's proposals and comments. In the autumn of 2020, a study of Response’s Analysis on the assignment of the Education Association among teachers was carried out. Half said they had worked under the pandemic something more than usual. 13 pst. replied that they had worked much more than usual. However, nine out of ten teachers were not compensated for the extra work that resulted from the pandemic. We know that teachers have had to turn around at the classroom in a few hours' notice. We know that teachers have used evenings — perhaps even nights — and weekends to plan and create new teaching materials that could be used digitally. We know that nursery workers have not been given scheduled time, working hours and meeting time and have had to use their leisure time to plan the educational and organisational arrangements for their cohort. We also know that managers, principals and directors have worked evenings and weekends. School and kindergarten employees must be compensated for the extra work if local infectious diseases measures are needed. Furthermore, municipalities have to be compensated for possible extra work for schools and kindergartens, and it has to be ensured that the money reaches the school. Therefore, Red, together with SV, promotes a proposal that: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that employees in kindergarten and school are compensated for additional work due to the pandemic, such as infectious diseases.’ Furthermore, Red believes that parents and supervisors should not be burdened financially if the kindergarten has to reduce the opening time due to the coronary apathy. If you have to stop working earlier, you might have to take unpaid leave, maybe you have to find other solutions. We have therefore also proposed that: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that parents receive a reduced parental benefit if the kindergarten has reduced the opening time due to infectious disease control measures.’ With this I address both the joint proposal and what Red is behind alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e424	The representative Bae Nyholt has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e429	Norway is still in an uncertain situation. Few had seen well, when we heard about the Korona for the first time around Christmas in 2019, that this should be so hard and last so long. For many, this has been challenging and difficult times. People's health, jobs and economics have been affected. Hospitals and health services have been in an exceptional situation for almost two years. The pandemic and its consequences have also hit children and young people hard. The closure of kindergartens, schools and other educational services is something you want to avoid as far as possible. However, when health considerations and the infectious situation indicate that this needs to be done, the government must have the opportunity to act quickly and to take the necessary measures. This and the previous government have demonstrated the safe management and rational use of measures in a timely manner based on the infection situation. I'm also sure that's going to continue in the future. Municipalities are closest to the assessments of the measures to be taken for the protection of infectious diseases that need to be implemented at all times. A strong community economy is important to address local challenges in the best possible way — whether equipment, additional personnel or other unforeseen challenges and costs arise. The government's adding 1.5 billion. extra for municipalities, and this is important for their financial situation. It is also important that the government monitor developments in municipalities in terms of the costs resulting from further pandemic management. It is important for municipalities to be given the resources and measures they need to do the job that needs to be done — especially in the exceptional situation we face — if a shutdown is necessary. Parents shall also ensure that the nursery does not incur additional costs of infectious disease protection, which require a further closure. Although Norway has learned a lot about dealing with a pandemic and how we can try to live a normal life in a rather abnormal situation, exceptional measures are still important and necessary. Now we would not have thought that we should once again extend these temporary measures, but safe and quick handling is necessary when we are still in an exceptional situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e440	The Workers' Party-Centre-Registration has taken over the control of the country after the election. Security, proximity and trust are key values the Hurdal platform is based on and the government is governed by. The Covid-19 pandemic is still over us, and we have to follow up the management of restrictions and rules that used to be under the pandemic. The centre party is therefore pleased that the government is now contributing to predictability and calm in the educational cycle and the growth of children, young people and participants in the introduction programme. When the pandemic and the infection rates are unpredictable, at least the ability to adapt to the situation must be good. We need to create maximum predictability where it can be done. Closed kindergartens and schools are not a wish, but it may be necessary to manage and reduce infection. With amendments to the temporary laws on adaptations to the kindergarten law, the training law, the law on free schooling, the law on introduction and the law on integration, the government is precisely remedying the consequences of covid-19 outbreaks in community communities throughout the country. The provisional laws were to be repealed on 1 December 2021. In line with the government’s proposal, the Committee is now calling for the laws to be passed on until 30 June 2022. Otherwise, the laws are passed on without any substantive changes. This means, in practice, that employees in the fields of growth and knowledge must not attend press conferences nationally every week, but mainly relate to what is happening in the municipality in which they live and work. It is better for the working day and the tasks they have. Children, young people and school students can relate to what is happening locally. Now we have a few national measures, but it assumes that we can reduce the number of infections, that more people are vaccinated, and that you are home when you are ill. There is still a joint effort by people throughout the country that is essential for us to go back to a more normal everyday life. From the Education Committee, I would like to say a thousand thanks to all those who put down a huge effort for children, young people and their upbringing every single day. You are indispensable!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e455	We are still reminded that the pandemic is not over, and we see how local outbreaks affect local communities throughout the country at regular intervals. I am therefore pleased that there is a great deal of consensus in the Chamber about the most important thing in this case. Since there are two separate proposals here, I would like to stress that parents do not pay for kindergarten if the kindergarten is closed as a result of infection protection measures. I believe that the most essential thing for caring for parents' payment for nursery facilities if local outbreaks occur and you have to shut down is taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e460	It is still necessary to ensure that all pupils receive good training in safe settings in response to new local outbreaks. It's shown too clearly to us lately. I would like to stress how strongly the right of students to training is, according to both the Children's Convention and the Training Act, and I am therefore pleased that the government has put forward this matter to ensure that the training continues to meet with new outbreaks of infection. I want to join in what has been said about the incredible effort that employees in both schools and kindergartens around the country have made to get us through the year and a half we've been through, and many places are still standing in now. The additional work they put in, the great flexibility they show, has made it possible for us, despite a difficult situation, to continue to provide students with a good offer and training that they are entitled to. But then it is all the more disappointing to see that at the beginning of the pandemic, teachers did not have to compensate for their additional work — it shows studies — but that we are still in a situation where school leaders do not have to compensate for their additional work. We could read about this, among other things. in Education News a short time ago, about Vice-Chancellors who have had to take both weekends and evenings in order to adapt training to new outbreaks. This is still going on. Therefore, SV is involved in making proposals to ensure that the input needs to be compensated. I think that's important when we see it stretching out on time, because there's a lot that's being sacrificed, both family life and other things on the private level. So at the end of the parental payment proposal: we don't see the need to go into such a proposal now, but if it should become relevant that we again see the closure of kindergartens and parents will be able, quite reasonably, to demand a lower parental payment, of course we will follow it up when it happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e471	During the pandemic, it has not been possible for kindergartens and schools to operate as normal for long periods of time. In addition, it has not been possible for municipalities and participants to implement the arrangements of the Introduction Act and the Integration Act as normal. The size has therefore adopted three provisional laws: the temporary law on adaptations in the kindergarten law, the training law and the law on free schooling; the temporary law on adaptations in the introduction law; and the subsequent temporary law on adaptations in the new law on integration. The duration of these laws is now set to 1 December 2021. Fortunately, the disease situation is now such that the need for adaptation is very reduced compared to the year we have left behind. National measures for the protection of children are no longer available in schools and kindergartens. Therefore, the rules of the temporary laws will only apply if municipal decisions are taken which affect the operation of schools, kindergartens and integration schemes. Municipalities must be prepared to take such decisions promptly where necessary. Situations may arise with temporary closure of premises or other measures to limit contact. Where this is done, temporary legislation will give students the right to home training if schools have, during periods, reduced their presence due to infection prevention measures. It will provide rules on what happens in such cases with parental payments in kindergarten and school leisure arrangements, and ensure that restrictions on the offer under integration legislation do not put an end to the introduction aid. I therefore propose to continue the temporary law on adaptations in the Kindergarten Act, the Training Act and the Free School Act until 30 June 2022. In consultation with the Minister for Labour and Integration, who is responsible for the area of integration, I also propose to continue the temporary laws on adaptations to the Integration Act and the Introduction Act until 30 June 2022. The provisional laws only provide for deviations which are necessary due to measures to protect infection. Deviations from the normal rules are not allowed for more or less than is necessary due to the infective situation. I propose to extend the temporary laws without any substantive changes. Revalidation will continue to provide a stable framework and predictability for municipalities, kindergartens, schools and kindergarten children, students and participants in the schemes under the Introduction Act and the Integration Act. There are many who have done and still do a great deal of work to care for children and young people in this difficult period, and I am impressed by what kindergartens and schools do. Local authorities have also made a strong effort to ensure participation in training and introduction programmes during this difficult period. I hope and believe that the extension of the temporary rules provides a stable framework and sufficient flexibility for the good work to continue in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e484	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e489	The right supports the proposal and also supports the majority vote. It gives the necessary flexibility in the situation that we're still in. However, what has been a concern throughout the pandemic is knowledge gaps among students. There, the government of Solberg proposed to set aside some additional funds for the first half of 2022, and as far as I understand, it is also followed up by the new government. I just want to make sure that the Council of State is conscious of the challenge that lies in the knowledge gaps that students can get with absence and home school in a serious infection situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e503	I can assure you that we are closely following this and are concerned about it. So I think there's a reminder to all of us in the representative Sanner's question, that all the knowledge gaps will not be expressed as immediately as we might think today will happen. It can be thought that this year, situations will emerge or be found in the students' knowledge that points back to the fact that this was a very demanding period for our students. So not only can I confirm that we are following it closely now and in the near future, but I will also follow this closely for longer. It is a work that I am absolutely convinced that the Storting too will be very committed to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e510	It has been pointed out several times in the Chamber that the parental payment is taken care of if the kindergarten shuts down, but the Red's proposal is to see it in conjunction with when the opening time is reduced. E.g. a kindergarten offer that goes from 9 to 15, is not necessarily possible to combine with a normal working day. That is why I need to ask the Council of State whether it is also taken care of when the opening time of kindergarten is reduced, not only when you have full closure.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e515	As the representative himself emphasizes, this piece of legislation describes which laws apply if, for the purpose of infectious diseases, it is necessary to shut down completely or for example. have changed the arrangements for the teaching arrangements of the students. For the nursery sector, we know that it has been demanding both for employees, for managers and for parents to deal with the fact that there have been periods of varying opening hours. But it's also that our kindergartens have varying opening times across the country. Changes may occur in the short term. Minor adjustments may need to be made to allow employees to be present. But this law regulates what happens if you have to close completely, and it is then I believe it is reasonable that your parents do not have to pay your parents. Then you'll have to deal with the nursery home locally if it's time to have a reduced opening time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e520	It is that it has been seen to be necessary to reduce the opening time in kindergarten in order to be able to carry out the cleaning of infectious diseases and to be able to have a working time and to plan. I consider this to be an infectious disease prevention measure. We are also in a situation where, in several municipalities, messages are sent to parents asking them to come and pick up their children because of a high level of sick leave. Many may claim that this is not pandemic-related, but we can certainly agree that it is a challenge to be at work and get a message that your child should be picked up because there are too few employees. Therefore, we believe that the Rødt proposal is relevant with regard to the continuation of the Korona legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e525	The goal must be that all of our kindergartens have a good enough basic staff so that cleaning and other variations that may arise, and things you need to solve during a working day, can be solved without the children having to be away from kindergarten for that reason. This law regulates what will happen to parental pay if you have to close a kindergarten with infectious diseases as a starting point. In that way, I believe that this proposal does not necessarily belong right here. That being said, it is obviously a challenge in many places – I have experienced it myself – that in case of high sick leave, people are asked to pick up the children earlier or add up to some reduced opening time. But then I want to go back to the basics, that the basics have to be good enough for there to be situations we don't get caught in.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e532	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e537	Since 13 March 2020, as a result of the pandemic, Norway has faced major challenges and challenges that we have had to deal with successfully. Clamps have been replaced with elbows, and the everyday face has been replaced by a screen – also for all the kids who should have spent their time on a school bench or at a sandbox. We're on the right path out of the coronary apandemia. Nevertheless, we still see large local outbreaks and the need for intervention sometimes. Through the amendments to these provisional laws, we ensure that the government can continue to make decisions quickly – to the best of all, to limit infection and not least to take the students and employees in the education sector seriously. One of the measures taken by the Workers' Party and the Centre Party is to suspend the absence limit in secondary schools entirely out of the school year. Later today we are going to consider a proposal from the SV related to it, but this work was already underway on the submission of the proposal, and the action has now been implemented. The exposure of students, county councils, teachers and decision-makers in this matter underlines the importance of having the opportunity to act quickly. This also applies to measures in primary and kindergartens, which this case ensures. We're going to do what we know every day to make peace. It's about making as much predictability as we can in an otherwise uncertain time, and not least giving as much trust as we can, back to those who work in the first line. It will be the Center Party and the Workers' Party's focus in all of these matters and in the future in the government's management of the pandemic.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e548	As others have explained here before today, it is absolutely necessary to extend the provisional laws. Crisis measures must last for as long as the crisis lasts. After a year and a half with pandemics, we have become aware that the infection situation can fluctuate. It's not long since we celebrated reopening, but once again we see a serious situation in several places in the country. It only underlines the importance of having the necessary space for action if necessary, locally. I would like to draw attention to the proposals made by Red and SV in the case. In the case of early retirement for kindergarten, Section 4 of the Temporary Act regulates it. Parents shall not pay when the nursery is closed because of the coronary apathy. It is established, and we in the Workers' Party are standing all the way back, like the rest of the committee. As correctly pointed out in the lines, the proposal concerns reduced opening time. The most important form of housing we now have in the management of the coronary apathy is the municipalities, and, as the Council of State correctly pointed out, there are different opening hours and different conditions of infection around the municipalities. Finding a perfect handling of it from here, in this room, I think will be difficult when it comes to opening time. It is therefore essential that municipalities have the necessary space for action and are economically robust to find the good local solutions that take care of both children, employees and parents. For this reason, the Workers' Party, together with the Centre, in its additional proposal to the State budget for next year, has promoted an increase in the free income of municipalities of a total of 2.5 billion. kr. In addition, we will follow the situation in the municipalities carefully and ensure that they are compensated for the additional costs they have with the coronary apathy. Furthermore, I would like to make some comments on the proposal for compensation for additional work, because there are many teachers and nursery workers who have been on for a long time and are tired – and with good reason. Of course, employees should not work for free. For us, it is absolutely essential that the employees are safe at work, that this is organised well, and that you get paid. This is also closely related to the local economy, which we are now adding to a strengthening of. We expect that there are challenges to this locally, it must be resolved in dialogue with the parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e557	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e575	I can already reveal that I am not going to spend the entire speaking time. The Education and Research Committee has examined the proposal by the representatives of the Grand Duchy representatives Freddy André Øvstegård, Lars Haltbrecken and Marian Hussein to suspend the absence limit in secondary school. The Committee refers to the Government’s decision, which was announced on 4 November 2021, to reinstate the temporary rules on early school leave and secondary school leave and to reintroduce the provisional rules for the whole school year 2021-2022. The Committee notes that the government has thus implemented the proposal for a decision in the proposal for a representative to suspend the school-in-school absenteeism until the infectiveness situation indicates that it can be implemented. The aim is that students should be as present at school as possible, but the usual rules of absence are not adapted to the infectious diseases that students now have to deal with. The Committee considers that, with the current disease situation, it was appropriate to reintroduce the derogation from the absence rule. I want to make the hall aware of the comment from the Right and Advance Party, which can be read in the case papers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e592	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e609	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to five rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. The first speaker is Mr Per Martin Sandtrøen. He sees we are not in the hall, and then we go to the next speaker, Mari Holm Lønseth. – It's always an advantage to be in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e618	At the outset, I would like to say that the matter concerns the extension of the right to continue restrictions on entry beyond 1 December, which I am sure the rapporteur-in-Office may say a little more about. But for the Right, I would like to say that the coronary apathy is not over, and the latest developments in the infection situation show us that there is still a need to follow the situation closely and also to assess whether there is a need for coronary intervention and possibly for intrusion restrictions. Therefore, the right supports the authorisation of the government to extend the restrictions on entry until May 2022, as the current law expires on 1 December. However, I would like to stress that this is a basis for assessing whether action should be taken; it is not an obligation for the government to introduce measures. The government must therefore keep under constant review the situation of infection, the relationship with the law on infectious diseases and other relevant rules in order to assess what is necessary in the interests of public health. The measures must not be more stringent than is necessary, but must not be less stringent than is necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e627	Then we see that the saxe spokesperson has arrived in the hall, so the next speaker is Per Martin Sandtrøen.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e633	I'm sorry, President! Here it went a little faster than I was aware of. In the proposal, the Government proposes to extend the temporary law on restrictions of entry until 1 May 2022. This means that, if necessary in order to ensure public health, the government may limit the right of foreigners to entry until 1 May without requiring a new Bill from the Stortinget. Extension of the law does not in itself imply that current restrictions on entry will be maintained until 1 May. The law allows the government to provide for exemptions from the restrictions and the restrictions shall not exceed what is necessary and proportionate. The Government has assessed but does not propose to extend the temporary rules of Chapter 10(a) of the Foreign Affairs Act. This chapter deals with remote meetings and temporary rules of procedure for the foreign student. UNE has been able to attend all or part of the conference during the pandemic as remote meetings and has had increased use of combined oral and written procedures. The Ministry writes that at a later stage, an assessment of whether the experience gained by UNE with digital meetings suggests that, for reasons other than the protection of infectious diseases, it should be opened for further use. The question in this proposition is not what restrictions on entry are currently necessary and proportionate, but whether, in the current situation, an authorisation for restrictions on entry is to be assumed to be necessary for some time after 1 December of this year. The Government has given a decisive emphasis to the fact that there is still a great deal of uncertainty about the further development of the pandemic internationally and that the Health Directorate recommends the extension of existing legislation. A majority of the Committee endorses the government's assessment and therefore suspends the extension of the law until 1 May 2022 and the winding-up of the provisional rules in Chapter 10(a).
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e648	There is little doubt that a high level of trust between health authorities, politicians and the population has been important — yes, perhaps also crucial — for how we have come through the most critical and unpredictable phase of the pandemic. We have skilled skills at all levels, we have health policy-makers who have credibility when they ask us to follow strict and in-depth disease protection measures, and we have a law that safeguards our security. At the beginning of the pandemic, we had little knowledge. We took the time to get an overview and control and find the right level of action. Measures, restrictions and laws had to be speeded up and often adjusted as quickly as possible. A temporary law on restrictions on entry as a result of the pandemic has been extended in several rounds, based on continued risk of infection. Since the spring of 2021, the restrictions have gradually been eased, and it must be a goal that this deceleration continues and, of course, should be phased out completely. The argument for a continuation of temporary law is now uncertain about the disease situation, and we see an increasing infection, both in Norway and in the countries around us, without taking such stringent measures. Unfortunately, Korona will be part of our lives perhaps for many years to come. Then this proposal deals with the need to continue provisional laws that empower the government to limit the right of foreigners to entry until the proposed date without requiring a new law decision in the Stortinget. It is about who has the power, who is involved when intervention is implemented. It's about our democracy. The Public Health Institute believes that although infection will increase over time, it is now easier to deal with a larger number of people entering and also increasing infection among them. It is therefore considered that an entry ban is no longer necessary in a democratic society, and that the basis of the law in that case will not be valid. ‘It must be carefully assessed whether the application of the law would result in human rights being infringed by the requirement of the least invasive measure’. Furthermore, it is noted that the restrictions on entry can be discriminatory in that Norwegian citizens with a migrant background and a multicultural background are more severely affected than other Norwegian citizens. SV believes that once the situation is normalised, when the acute and temporary situation is over, temporary laws should not be extended either. We have the opportunity to re-adopt temporary laws if the situation so warrants. The law is clear, and we have an ordinary law we follow. It may not be that we have laws in place, or a ‘fun to have’ precautionary principle. It doesn't create the trust that we're totally dependent on. On the contrary, as the Institute of Public Health writes, it can weaken confidence and once again have consequences for the protection of infectious diseases in the future. SV will therefore not support, as indicated in the suspension, the extension of a temporary law.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e665	Sometimes a person has to make continuous assessments, sometimes things go a little faster, as the case-rapporteur was also inside his post, and it may go a little too quickly. In this case, the Government stresses that the restrictions should not exceed what is necessary and proportionate in view of the current situation at all times. The previous government has passed several laws aimed at facilitating and more flexible implementation of immediate measures to reduce the infection and its outbreak. This proved essential for the management of the pandemic. So far, there's nothing to suggest that the sitting government won't follow it up in the same track, but it's important to have the necessary tools to be able to adapt quickly to restrictions, so that new contagion waves and trends are shut down. The infection rates we've seen in the last two weeks give cause for concern. Even with a high degree of vaccine in the population, hospitals will face major trials in the future. Therefore, it is important that the government has the possibility of a temporary law on restrictions of entry and facilitates it, but it has not been said that the restrictions will become more extensive in the coming period. When the Left votes in favour of the recommendation, we want to extend the government's ability to act quickly if the situation in the future requires that we have restrictions on immigration for public health reasons. With that, we trust that the government, like the previous one, will manage that opportunity wisely and based on professional recommendations.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e674	This is the third time it is proposed to extend the temporary law on restrictions on entry. I would have liked to be in addition, and it could seem unnecessary a few months ago, but recent developments have made it clear that the pandemic is not over, either here in Norway or in the rest of the world. There has again been a need to address measures and recommendations in Norway, and several municipalities have introduced measures as a result of a difficult health situation. On this basis, I believe it is necessary to have the opportunity to refuse access by non-residents to Norway even after 1 December, if the situation so requires. I also believe that it is better that the Storting should take a position on this now than that the government might have to use powers under the IPD Act. I'm glad the committee joins. However, I understand that the member of the Committee of the Socialist Left has a different view, especially in the light of the fact that the Institute of Public Health has abolished an extension of the law. The assessment is difficult when the FHI and Health Directorate do not agree. In this context, the Government has given the highest priority to the Health Directorate’s recommendation. I would like to stress, as the Health Directorate, that there is now the possibility of restrictions on entry it is important to continue. The actual restrictions on entry shall not be more stringent than is necessary and proportionate at all times. Current restrictions on entry are much less extensive than they have been in other stages of the pandemic and will be liquidated by regulatory changes as soon as it is deemed to be sound. I would like to add that in a transitional phase it may be appropriate to remove the restrictions on the right of entry, but to retain the requirement of entry quarantine and testing. In this case, it should also be possible to expel non-residents who may refuse to comply with those requirements. The home meal for such expulsion is provided by the law on restrictions of entry.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e687	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e692	On Friday, the government held a press conference on the Corona situation. It was then announced that the Minister of Justice would attend, but it was said to NTB that the Council of State was missing because the government had decided to spend more time evaluating the health authorities’ recommendations relating to entry. What is the government now considering investigating entry-related issues, and for how long does the government plan to investigate them?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e699	We make ongoing assessments of the Korona situation in all areas, including entry. We thought it was right to take time to evaluate the situation that was last week, and we'll come back as soon as we have something more to say in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e705	Then I can ask again, what about entry is what you consider? Is there any new restrictions related to entry, or is there any other condition — just to understand what may be considered further?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e710	As I also said in my post, there are a lot of reviews you have to do here. There are both the types of restrictions to enter the country and any requirements for those entering the country, for example. quarantine and testing. There are assessments that the government is making on an ongoing basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e715	Finally, one last question: How long are you considering assessing it? Does the government have any idea of when you're going to come back to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e720	We will come back as soon as possible, and the representative does not have to wait long. I feel safe about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e725	The size is likely to adopt at present a law on the temporary extension of restrictions on entry, despite significant and decisive changes. As has been pointed out, we now see a situation of increasing infection, but we also have a high degree of vaccination, although we would like it to be even higher. That means that we also have a higher degree of immunity. We're trying to get back to normal. We also heard today the Minister of Culture at the NRK strongly urge us to go to Christmas concerts, and it was totally safe. The use of corona passports has been mentioned, in addition to vaccines and testing. The restrictions on entry have consequences for many. FHI believes that less invasive measures could be sufficient to manage possible infections, such as testing, quarantine and coronary passports. What does the Council of State think about that?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e732	The Institute for Public Health and the Directorate for Health have, as stated, different views on the need to extend the law. The Health Directorate recommends extension, although they mainly share FHI’s situation description, to which the representative referred. Then we think it's right to follow that. There are many questions and assessments to be made in relation to these laws. We need to take it seriously, including: what goes on the human rights sides, too. It's part of the ongoing assessments of what we're doing. We have to remember that these are the actual restrictions on entry into human life, not the basis for introducing them, which is what we are adopting today. I think it is right to extend the law itself on the basis of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e739	A little bit in the extension of it is also this with confidence a moment from the Institute of Public Health, which we've been up to. It's absolutely crucial. Does the Council of State have any idea that that trust can be weakened when we extend laws that may not be the same?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e744	The alternative to extending this law would have been that it was lifted in two weeks. This would lead to the lifting of existing restrictions on entry, and it would not be possible to expel foreigners, for example. refuses to test or refuses to quarantine. If it would then be necessary to reintroduce restrictions on entry, we could use exceptional powers under the IPD Act, but then I believe it is more correct and give a better process to do so instead of perhaps returning and processing a new and temporary law. I also believe that this will help to strengthen trust in the administration's management by providing predictability for people by now extending the temporary law until 1 May 2022, and by continuously making assessments and regulating it in regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e749	Replicate cord shift complete. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e770	In the autumn, there have been some revelations, including: in today's economy, which suggests that Norwegian enterprises experience more regular attempts at targeted foreign intelligence activity than has been previously known to the public. The specific issue reported by Today's Economy was about critical infrastructure in the North Sea and Norwegian underwater technology that was exposed to interest from foreign actors. Our underwater infrastructure is what binds Norway with the world in many ways and ensures both trade and information flows. It is therefore particularly serious when we receive reports that this type of infrastructure is being tested by foreign intelligence. There may also be signs that this infrastructure has become a more topical intelligence target in recent years, both as a result of an increasingly data-driven economy and as a result of a world in which authoritarian regimes feel that other doors to intelligence activity against allies in North America and Europe are closed as a result of sanctions regimes. In addition to the specific case of critical infrastructure in the North Sea, DN’s reports have revealed some more systemic challenges related to the sector principle, safety competence in Norwegian public authorities and cooperation between public authorities and business actors. I am therefore pleased that the Council of State is taking part in this debate today, and that the Council of State has been open to the public that there may be reasons to look at the Security Act and the way we deal with these kinds of challenges in Norway. There is every reason for this issue not to be the subject of classical party-political divisions and for political Norway to be united on issues like this. That is also why I have asked the Minister of Justice to take part in this interview debate, precisely because I believe this is a complex matter that deserves a broad and factual discussion. Based on the reports in Today's Business and feedback from the Norwegian Security Council, I understand that the challenges facing Norwegian companies in these specific cases were a lack of clear contact points with the public security competences of the public authorities to which they addressed them – i.e. those bodies that may not be primarily responsible for just security but have a responsibility in other areas – and a lack of flexible means of reporting activities to which these companies themselves felt suspicious. For business, this activity represents a potentially large loss of value, but it can also represent a weakened reputation in matters where critical infrastructure is compromised. For us as a society, it's primarily a matter of preparedness, but it's also a question of what it means if we don't have those structures in place that make us manage to see the relationship between this and other types of intelligence activity. The new Security Act was only adopted in 2017. I believe it is obvious that there may be a need for adjustments in it in the light of the experience we have had since the law was passed. In addition to that, perhaps what concerns me first of all in this case, is that business operators do not feel that they are being met with any interest when they report suspicious activity. I think we can learn something from other areas of society where we've managed to solve cross-sectoral challenges. A good example of this is the crime of working life. Furthermore, I think we can gain experience from abroad on how we can manage to link business closer to public authorities. In the short run, I also believe that this is a question of whether different public agencies with sectoral responsibilities, such as the Directorate of Fisheries, the Oil Directorate or the Coastal Agency, need to strengthen their competence to deal with these kinds of business enquiries. I believe that there are both long-term and more immediate approaches that the government can take to reduce intelligence challenges arising from the fact that there are currently grey zones between different sectors. I am delighted to hear what initiatives the Council of State is ready to take in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e791	I would first like to thank the representative for putting an important theme on the agenda. This isn't just relevant in the light of what comes out in DN. The threat posed by foreign intelligence and influence activities to Norway, Norwegian values and interests has been well known and reported from our services for many years. It was also a central issue in the Stortinget in ours, during the Bergen Engines case, when the Stortinget both addressed criticism and adopted proposals on how to improve the safety work in these matters. Stakeholders often combine several tools, as well as intelligence tools, to achieve their objectives. Drug use is generally distributed widely and in the long term in its approach and combines open and disguised methods. There are several states, but in particular Russia and China, that use instruments against Norway and Norwegian interests in a way that challenges our national security interests. hybrid or complex threats may occur in different sectors and may occur in both private and public activities. Driving forces such as technology development and digitisation increase vulnerability, while at the same time increasing the number of attack areas for threat actors. We also see some countries' use of economic and financial instruments for purposes other than business. Foreign countries use large resources on traditional instruments, such as recruiting Norwegian citizens or their own citizens living in Norway, to access information or other values relevant to the country concerned. In line with the Hurdal platform, the government will better enable us to address these challenges. That's what the government has been focusing a lot on from the very beginning. Having an up-to-date picture and a common understanding of the risks and situations is very important in this context. My department, the Ministry of Defence and the intelligence and security services have a special responsibility to contribute. There is extensive cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and there is also extensive international cooperation in this area. Nevertheless, it is important to stress that it is more important than ever before that all departments in their sectors assume their responsibility for prevention security because complex threats are widespread. Those who are business owners must themselves have some knowledge of what kind of threats exist. This, together with knowledge of their own values and vulnerability, is essential for their self-implementation of appropriate and sufficiently preventive measures. A key knowledge base for the activities is the annual unupgraded threat and risk assessments of intelligence and security services. In the digital field, the National Cybersecurity Centre of the National Safety Authority (NSM) has a central role in improving situational awareness and resource utilisation across public and private activities. The Ministry of Justice and Defence cooperated with research communities to develop a better knowledge base and understanding of various forms of complex threats. It includes human security projects, the inside threat and research and impact activity. The revision of laws and regulations in line with the new safety challenges is another key action taking across all sectors. Implementation of the Security Act is about identifying the values that are important in order to safeguard our national security and will contribute to increased dialogue and interaction between private and public enterprises. In order to meet the challenges related to the use of economic instruments for security-threatening activities, my ministry has consulted proposals for provisions of the Chapter of the Security Act on ownership control. Proposals for further changes to the Safety Act are submitted at the beginning of the following year at general consultation. In the proposal for an additional bill for the State budget, the government has proposed to grant money for a screening mechanism that will strengthen our efforts to combat unwanted economic activity as a security threat. The new Intelligence Act entered into force on 1 January 2021. We are also working on the basis of the police security service. The proposals will enhance the ability of the PST to detect, assess and counteract the intelligence and influence operations of foreign countries in Norway. We also update other laws. The Ministry of Defence sent in autumn draft regulations relating to the monitoring of marine soil conditions. Regulation on the access to and movement of foreign vessels in Norwegian territorial waters and regulations on foreign State vessels are also under review.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e812	I would like to thank the Minister of Justice for the answer and for her participation in the debate. I think it's important that there's actually a public debate on this, although maybe not all of the things in the case can be talked very loudly about in the public domain. I also appreciate that she does not adopt a very sloppy attitude in the matter – at least I do not feel that way – but is open to working on different kinds of issues to improve the way we manage to deal with these kinds of threats to both business and our own security. I'm glad the Council of State is open to change in the future. What I'm a little concerned about, however, is that there might be a little bit of focus on both the security law and the sector principle, that we can't help thinking across, and that we can't help involving all the actors that need to be involved. This applies, for example: the business community and the experience they experience when meeting the Norwegian authorities. They feel that it is very unclear what should be the right point of contact, and what should be the right way to contact them. There are, of course, obvious limitations on what kind of information business can get in some specific issues, but I think there's still a great need to look at how we can manage to involve business more, both to reduce grey areas and to secure all actors. I think it's possible to do that without somehow putting the sector principle to death, without us abandoning that principle. I should also like to hear more reflections from the Council of State on how we in other fields have managed to see more sectors as a whole, and how in other matters we have managed to take business with us to respond to the needs that they are calling for. I share the Minister of Justice's view that this is a topic that we have to work on in the long term, but I still believe that it is not enough to point to the work of the Total Emergency Commission or the new Defence Commission. I also hope that the Council of State is open to look at changes in the shorter term and take with it the experience of the specific cases from the autumn that have been reported. So what I want to challenge further in the debate is: first, what will she do to connect business to the right processes? And secondly, what grip does she see that it is possible to take in the short term?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e823	The representative addresses many important questions, and I am pleased that we are receiving a signal that the opposition, the former government parties, also want to be involved in strengthening our ability to care for our own security interests and to detect and prevent illegal intelligence activities. When it is known and so clearly pointed out on the service side that some countries use economic instruments for security-threatening activities, it is clear that industry plays an important role and must be aware of this. That's one of the reasons why we, among other things, want to introduce a new screening mechanism, so that we can get more predictability for business as to what kind of transactions, economic activity, can go ahead, and what we have to stop or commit to by the state because it may be contrary to national interests. There are both rules that are being consulted to allow this to happen, and also a willingness of this government to give priority to that work, because we have already found money to get it in place in the supplementary proposal. The Ministry of Justice and Defence has overall responsibility for security, but the sectoral principle requires all departments to have a high level of safety awareness. One of the challenges of ensuring national security and control at all stages is that we need to be able to raise awareness of it. We need to be able to increase cooperation and ensure better cooperation procedures on national security issues. This was among other things: A part of the decision by Stortinget, with the current government parties, did just before the summer, where one pointed out that one had to go through, for example. cooperation between departments and how to improve them. It is, of course, a work that we will now follow up in government, because we are committed to taking national control, taking intelligence threats from foreign countries seriously and doing what we can to prevent this within a framework that provides security for the state and predictability of business.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e832	First of all, I would like to thank the representative for raising a very important question, in the light of both the hybrid threats we have been exposed to over a long period of time, and not least the issue of today's business. These threats meet on a broad front, it may be uncertain who is behind it – whether it is a state or actors acting on behalf of states – they often aim to destabilise and polarise, and there are also elements of pure espionage in it. The previous government started to significantly strengthen both the Intelligence Service and the Police Security Service. The budget of the Intelligence Service nearly doubled during the reign of the Solberg Government, and the budgets of the Police Security Service have also been significantly strengthened. But because of the silo organization in the country, there is a certain danger that these threats may fall between several chairs. That is why the previous government set up a joint analysis and intelligence centre, where the police security service and intelligence service have been located together in order to have a more or less common understanding of the situation and exchange information. I had a hope that the Minister in his speech might be a little more concrete in this area – how to maintain the interface between the responsibilities of the Police Security Service and the Intelligence Service, so that in totality one is able to capture and analyse the overall threat picture. State security and external threats are the responsibility of the Intelligence Service, while the PST is responsible for threats within the UK. It's basically a principle and some theoretical representation of how threat images can arise. In practice, it is much more complex. Then is my hope and my question to the Minister: Is there anything to say about how we intend to further develop the Joint Analysis and Intelligence Centre established by the previous government? What experience is there, and what is the best way to maintain the interface between the PST and the Intelligence Service, so that we can have the best possible device to deal with these highly complex and complex threats?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e845	What is promised here today is a relatively large and comprehensive theme, and I just want to say right away that I had no hope that we would get to the bottom of it during this interpellation debate. But I think it's been a very good start to a debate that we're definitely going to have to continue for the next four years as well. I appreciate the fact that the Council of State is meeting openly and offensively in the main hall, and my interpretation of the Council of State's response so far in the debate is at least that the Council of State is also open to look at, together with the Storting, what we can do to reduce the grey areas that make us vulnerable to foreign intelligence. Governments have repeatedly pointed to this sector principle in the course of the debate, and it has neither been my intention nor – I think – the intention of others that we should abandon the sector principle, but I think it is a little important to recognise that this principle has its weaknesses. It is also the case that the Ministry of Justice and Security has a very important responsibility within the government to manage precisely to limit the negative aspects of such a sector principle — ensuring coordination and coordination, and not least to oversee, for example. the safety and preparedness of the other departments. For the challenge that I think the issues we've seen in today's business this autumn reveal, is that there are quite a lot of different public agencies that are actually being tested, without having the skills needed to handle it. We have e.g. The Coastal Agency, the Oil Directorate and the Fisheries Directorate, which do not have the main purpose of working on this, which is working on granting different permits and approvals, and which may not have the competence needed to manage this in a good way, and which is therefore not able to meet the operators in the business community in a good way, so that we get the best possible job together. At least what I want from the Ministry of Justice and Defence is that one is very clear on this coordination role and is clear when it comes to following up the different departments. I would like to encourage the Minister of Justice to also convene both the business community and the relevant state councils together to find solutions to the challenges that the business community here outlines for us. At least for the Left, I can promise that we will continue to work on this matter, and also follow up with suggestions on how we can deal with both the immediate and the longer-term challenges that we have become aware of through this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e854	I would have liked to have answered out more than I can do in three minutes. But to take it first: the inter-pellant points to something important in this regard with the need to cooperate across departments and across sectors. I can promise that with the experience we had from Bergen Engines, there was something we quickly started in the new government, because we are very concerned about taking national security interests and national control in the greatest seriousness. We're going to do a lot of work on that in the future. To Elvenes: The Ministry of Justice and Defence has recently issued a hearing note which includes: deals with changes in the police and police records laws, where it is proposed to clarify the task of the PST as a domestic intelligence service. In addition, there is also a proposal for a job that is working on the basis of the statutory framework for the PST, where one, among other things, is involved. has issued a consultation note proposing to criminalise cooperation with foreign intelligence services for the exercise of influence activities, which has not been criminalised already today. Overall, this proposal will strengthen the ability of the PST to detect, counteract and assess the intelligence and influence activities of foreign countries in Norway and will contribute to the greater complementarity of the mandate of the PST and the E service, as requested by the representative. This will reduce the potential grey areas of the service base. In conclusion, I would like to say that a very important part of ensuring Norwegian interests and national control is to ensure that those responsible for the safety work are aware of their responsibility and take it. There, as Minister of Justice and Defence, I would like to be an instigator of this. We know that both Norway and our allies face a more demanding security policy situation, where not only do you see the traditional threats, but you see that economic instruments and untraditional influence activities in particular are part of what could threaten the state, society and the individual. There is today close and close cooperation, especially between the intelligence and security services and the relevant authorities and businesses, but we will need to work to improve this, to ensure that we are as secure as possible, to further develop cooperation and to see how we can improve, among other things. the Security Act and that we introduce other relevant measures. I would like to thank the interpellant again for bringing up this theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e867	The debate on substance is then closed. 5 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e886	The 2030 agenda with sustainability targets is the world's common work plan for achieving social, economic and environmental sustainability by 2030. Norway was a driver of the adoption of the targets in 2015, and the Solberg government decided that the objectives would be the main political track to address today’s major challenges. The sustainability objectives differ from the thousand-year targets in that they apply to all countries and that they focus on mutual dependence and shared responsibility. Of course, interdependence is particularly evident in developing countries, such as the United States and Japan. progress within Objective No 1 on poverty, Objective No. 2, on hunger, and Objective No. 3, on health, obviously related. A girl with education has fewer children, better health and better finances. Norway has challenges other than developing countries, but the objectives are also mutually dependent in Norway. Where in some countries there is a problem that children are not able to attend school, our challenge is the opposite — that too many people fall away. School dropouts have complex causes, but social challenges, objective no. 1 and mental health, Objective No. 3 may be partial explanations. School dropouts contribute to more young people falling out of work and society later in life. Is there anything we know about these kinds of complex challenges that we need to look for solutions that go across disciplines and sectoral responsibility? That's exactly why the sustainability goals and the 2030 agenda are important, because it gives us a common framework for working on this across levels of government, ministries, business, academia and civil society. In Norway, there is a lot of debate on Objective No. 13 climate. But all three dimensions of the sustainability targets are equally important. The green shift must be socially fair, and it must be profitable over time. When the green solutions give black numbers on the bottom line, a snowball starts rolling – and it won't stop. The market is a miserable master, but an effective servant. I always find inspiration in the example of the coal museum in the proud coal state of Kentucky. It's powered by solar power because that's what was cheapest. At the same time, the role of politicians must be to safeguard the social dimension of the green shift. High electricity prices are an example of that. More variable energy in the power system makes us more vulnerable to periods of dry and windless weather. In order to use sustainability terminology, energy prices deal with both objective No. 7 on energy at affordable prices, Objective No. 1 on poverty, Objective No. 8, on work, and Objective No. 9th on industry. There is a high level of commitment to sustainability targets among many key actors in Norway. Our academic institutions cooperate closely on sustainability objectives because they recognise that the objectives require a multidisciplinary approach in both research and education. An increasing number of enterprises are basing their strategies on targets. Now it's not just about making the company sustainable, but about creating an enterprise of sustainability. And while a lot of companies used to have one department or one employee working on sustainability goals, today top managers and directors take that responsibility. It's an enormous potential to create a business of sustainability. The OECD has estimated that 4 200 billion must be invested by 2030. dollars in developing countries alone to achieve the targets. Norwegian business has all the prerequisites to participate in the market opportunities it offers. Norwegian municipalities and county councils have also played an active role in the work on sustainability goals, even though significant sections of the team have been demonstrated. The UN has estimated that two thirds of the efforts to achieve the sustainability targets need to be made locally. Through spatial planning and as a provider of important services in people's lives, municipalities have a significant impact on the achievement of the target. The sustainability targets are hardly mentioned in the Hurdal platform. The Government has a direct role to play in achieving the objectives and in facilitating coordinated policies, joint solutions and new partnerships between organisations, authorities, academia, the private sector and civil society. So far, there are no signs that the government intends to take this responsibility – and that is disappointing. It's worth noting that today's interpellation was set at 16 different state councils. The Government's answer is to send one Council of State to respond on behalf of the 16. There is no doubt that the Minister of Local and District Affairs has an important role to play in the field of sustainability objectives, but the interpellation was not about the constitutional responsibility of the Grams Council for coordination. It was about how each State Council intends to work to achieve the objectives and targets that are particularly relevant to its respective constitutional responsibilities. With only nine years left until the goals are achieved, we don't have time to look at sustainability goals as something on the side of all other policies. All policies in all departments must contribute to the achievement of the objectives. This was also the reason why the Solberg government decided that we would report on targets in the future – not just main goals. It is customary for government councils not to respond to concrete challenges to the constitutional responsibilities of other government councils in the UK. When the Prime Minister sends Gram to answer for 15 other government councils, it must be because the Prime Minister does not acknowledge that all government councils have a responsibility to contribute to the achievement of their goals, or because the Prime Minister takes very easy on questions from the Stortinget. I fear that it may be a combination of the two. When the Prime Minister has chosen to do so, I assume that, in addition to answering for himself, Gram is a concrete response to how the other 15 government councils work to achieve targets and targets that are particularly relevant to their portfolio.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e915	First of all, thank you to the representative Astrup for raising the Norwegian sustainability up to debate also early in the new parliamentary term. I had in my former role as KS leader the joy of cooperating part with the interpellant on precisely these questions, and I know his strong commitment and insight into various aspects of sustainability work. On behalf of the government, I would like to give some general consideration to the work, in addition to that relating specifically to the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. The sustainability objectives with intermediate objectives cover most areas of social development. In sum, they describe a desired state globally that is close to the society we already have in Norway. Our country is largely characterised by security, legal certainty and material prosperity. Education and health services are available to the vast majority. Society is characterized by cooperation and trust. There is high participation in employment and relatively little inequality. Norway is one of the countries with the highest sustainability targets overall. That doesn't mean we don't have challenges. This is particularly true of high material consumption, climate emissions and natural diversity, but also, for example: alienation and mental health. The government has objectives for social development in all areas, including where we are well placed in an international comparison, and I show in that context to the Hurdal platform. Report. St. 40 for 2020-2021, ‘Measure with meaning’, presented by the previous government and developed under the direction of the inter-pellant, ‘translating’ the sustainability objectives into Norwegian conditions. The message is a lookup book and a starting point for further follow-up. The government has wanted it to be part of the basis for achieving sustainability goals by 2030. This big message is based on adopted policies. A weakness is that the relationship between public, voluntary and private efforts is unclear. The complexity of the challenges and coherence between the objectives are also not evident. The government will therefore focus on the overall perspectives of further work. Treatment will provide valuable direction and concrete details for further work. The sustainability agenda requires cross-sectoral cooperation, policy areas and levels of governance, and it requires that we see the objectives in context – they cannot be achieved separately. One example is the necessary green shift, where we need to see Objective 13 to halt climate change, in conjunction with a number of other objectives. Report. St. 40 for 2020–2021 shows that the differences between groups in society have increased in recent years. Developments like this want this government to do something about, among other things. through a more streamlined tax system and stronger and more accessible welfare services. The 2030 agenda covers all sectors and creates a major need for coordination and interaction. I was given the responsibility to coordinate national work on sustainability goals. The government will set up a National Forum for the 2030 agenda, under my leadership. The Forum shall contribute to the achievement of sustainability objectives by discussing opportunities, exchanging knowledge of experiences, challenges and dilemmas, and assisting the efforts of industry, non-governmental organisations, the municipal sector and the academia. The government has started work on measuring points to reflect national policy objectives. The work on defining these and obtaining data will continue in 2022. I will also refer to the cooperation agreement between the KS and the government, and the work of the KS and the SSB to identify indicators that can follow the sustainability objectives over time. The government will follow the target achievement and report on this to the Stortinget every year. As a municipal minister, I am concerned about what is happening in municipalities and county municipalities. I am pleased that the municipal sector has made good progress with good measures bringing together local businesses, the voluntary sector, citizens and management in joint efforts to achieve the objectives. Local and regional authorities have an important role to play in the follow-up to the 2030 agenda. The broad task portfolio of the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation will otherwise be in contact with the full range of sustainability objectives. Time does not allow me to go into it heavily now – I may have to come back to that – but I will mention, among many important areas, the importance of municipal and regional planning, both in order to follow up Objective 11 on sustainable cities and agglomerations and to be able to reconcile different conflicts of objectives in land issues as best as possible. I will also place great emphasis on the importance of good innovation in the development of the public sector in order to ensure long-term sustainability. The sustainability targets will become important in the coming years. We have more to do, including in Norway. To achieve the goals, all of them have to move in the same direction. Developing cross-sectoral and administrative cooperation will be a key to success.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e944	Let me thank the Council of State Gram for the answer. The Council of State cannot be charged for having to respond on behalf of 15 other councils, but as he himself said, time did not go into his own territory, for which he is responsible. Then you can wonder how the Prime Minister had thought that poor government council Gram would answer on behalf of 15 government councils – plus himself – in 5 minutes. So the answer is unfortunately a confirmation of why the other state councils should have met up and answered on their own behalf. We have not been given an answer to the targets they are working with, especially, in the Ministry of Health and Welfare or the Ministry of Defence, which departments contribute to achieving targets in school dropouts, mental illness among young, poor children's families or the circular economy, how the Ministry of Defence is working to achieve target No. 12, on responsible consumption, or objective No 13, on climate, or how the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs intends to report on relevant targets, or on which indicators the Ministry of Finance will report, to mention something. Government leadership in the field of sustainability targets is becoming important, not least in mobilising and coordinating efforts across ministries and different sectors of society. This is a demanding job, and I wish the Council of State Grams luck. He'll meet a lot of resistance, not least internally. The Solberg government proposed the establishment of a national forum for the pursuit of sustainability goals, and that this should be managed by the Prime Minister himself, for this is a challenge where leadership from the top is required. Can the Council of State Gram now confirm that the government is continuing this forum under the leadership of Prime Minister Gahr Støre? However, I am pleased that the government has decided to report. St. 40 for 2020–2021, ‘Measure with meaning – Norway’s action plan to achieve sustainability targets by 2030’, is not withdrawn, but will be addressed in the Stortinget. It's about 2030, and that means that this decade must be the decade of action. We need to strengthen efforts to establish new and innovative partnerships locally and nationally to contribute to new solutions to today's major societal challenges. I am convinced that the combination of new partnerships, increased uptake, sharing and processing of relevant data, and new technologies, such as artificial intelligence, the Internet of Things and real-time data transmission between mobile devices, otherwise called 5G, can give us new opportunities to accelerate development and contribute positively to it. And now we're at the heart of what's Gram's responsibility. The way in which the public sector uses its purchasing power can also define our ability to achieve social, economic and environmental sustainability. Every year, government purchases goods and services for more than 600 billion. kr. How we spend that money has a huge impact on how innovative, efficient and sustainable the public sector becomes, but also on what kind of business we get. Therefore, it is disappointing to note that some of the first government councils did when he took up the office, was cutting off the new StartOff program, which is just about connecting start-up companies with the public sector needs. It shows that the government has failed to realize the power of the new business world, a force we need to use to achieve social, economic and environmental sustainability by 2030.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e959	It seems that the interpellant is in many ways most concerned about who it is that answers to what, who should lead the forum, etc. It might be an interesting discussion, but it's just a matter of time. The most important thing is what we're actually doing, and what we're going to do. The new government that has joined has a very good basis for entering into the work on sustainability goals. The Hurdal Platform draws up an offensive policy, in a number of areas, which will enable us to respond better even in areas where Norway is facing challenges today. It is about the circular economy linked to, inter alia, the work of the Minister of Economic Affairs and the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment. It is about the development of welfare services that enables us to prevent exclusion and get more into the labour market. There are important investments in the field of the Minister of Labour and Inclusion already in the supplementary number of the State budget for next year, related to action places, permanent work, etc. – and in my own area, linked to, for example: housing policy, which is very important in several dimensions, also with regard to helping disadvantaged and secure people to live as part of the fundamental well-being. What is now important is that, through coordinated work in the government and the ministry, and further through the use of the underlying agencies and the national forum that I confirmed in my first post to be established and managed by the undersigned, we can do what is perhaps most important in the field of sustainability goals, namely to think across sectors, levels of government and different social actors. I look forward to the Storting's handling of the message that Astrup also referred to, and that we get a good basis there, and I look forward to a good interaction with the Storing in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e968	Sustainability Objective 6 says that we should ‘ensure sustainable water management and access to water and good sanitation for all’. Report. St. 40 for 2020–2021, already mentioned several times earlier in the debate, has descriptions through its action plans, among others. of the Norwegian perspective on challenges and targets. Sub-objective 6.1 is about ensuring equal access to safe drinking water at an affordable price for all. In the consultations with the State budget, our committee has gained useful knowledge in this area as well. The water and sewerage sector is an example of socially critical services that are already under severe climate change pressure. Increased congestion in many cities reinforces the challenges. Municipalities and companies are constantly working to adapt water and sewerage services to the new climate everyday life. Extreme amounts of rainfall, floods, sea level rises and droughts have triggered the need for costly infrastructure investments. In addition, many receptors have become more sensitive to nutrient administration, so that sewage treatment plants need to be rebuilt in order to remove several of them before the purified water is discharged. In order to ensure the delivery of safe drinking water and the proper management of wastewater, Norwegian municipalities must invest 332 billion. kr in water infrastructure and sewerage up to 2040. About 20 pst of the need comes as a result of delays in maintenance. The other costs are allocated to natural replacements over the next 20 years, government requirements and climate adaptations. Then we also have challenges in overwater regulation. More extreme rainfall combined with increased densities is leading to more and more frequent damage to buildings and infrastructure. Without preventive measures, damage costs of between 45 billion and 100 billion are expected over the next 40 years. kr. Consequently, the socio-economic benefits of prevention are high. It is urgent to clarify the responsibility for establishing prevention measures and how to finance them. Climate change and the need for adaptation will affect the economy of ordinary people and the ability of local communities to create new jobs. It will be important to work targeted and coordinated with climate adaptation. I record that the representative Astrup seems to have concerns about the government's work on and coordination of sustainability goals. It is then possible to look at the Hurdal platform, which is clear that the government sees the need for climate adaptation and prevention, and that one will strengthen, among other things. the societal preparedness. The Government will plan to strengthen its efforts to prevent future extreme events, to strengthen the ability of the NVE and the municipalities to carry out this work, to provide solutions to the local authorities' efforts to close the gap in the rehabilitation and construction of water and sewerage solutions, and to promote a sectoral water law. The government's proposal to strengthen the economy of the municipal sector in the supplementary number will be an important step on the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e987	To achieve the sustainability goals by 2030, all parts of society must contribute. In practice, it means that citizens, politicians, business leaders or decision-makers must constantly ask themselves whether the activities, decisions, projects and production they want to carry out contribute to social, environmental and economic sustainability. Norway is well placed to achieve sustainability objectives. We have democratic institutions, a well-functioning legal system, high income levels, good public services and small differences between people and regions, and the confidence of the population is high compared to very many other countries. However, in the years to come Norway faces a number of social, climate and environmental and economic challenges. Let me take this opportunity to raise two of the sustainability goals. It is objective No. 5, on equality, and paragraph 12, on responsible consumption and production. I'll start with the last one. Some of the challenges we have to tackle here are the more efficient use of our natural resources, the reduction of food waste and, in particular, the reduction of waste, which is well above the European average. Despite several good measures, we still have a way to go in these areas, but we have also taken some quantum leaps under this sustainability goal. The Solberg government introduced the Transparency Act last year, and with that law Norway is leading internationally. I want to borrow the words of the Development and Environment Forum, which represents a network of 50 Norwegian civil society organisations. They wrote: ‘First of all, we would like to express our great satisfaction at the fact that there is now a concrete legislative proposal for consideration. Norwegian civil society has fought for a law of transparency for a number of years, and we will recognise that both the Ethics Information Committee and the Government have done a thorough job in this process.’ Let me also address the challenges under sustainability objective 5, on gender equality, and let me start by saying that Norway is no. 2 among the 153 countries participating in this ranking for 2020, but this does not mean that there are no challenges to address in this area as well. In the private sector, women remain strongly under-represented in positions where economic decisions are taken. The group managers of the 200 largest companies in Norway are only 14 p.m. women. This was the background to a plan presented by the Minister for Gender Equality and the Minister for Industry in the autumn of 2018 to increase the gender balance at the top of the economy. For me, the proportion of women working part-time is a good parameter for gender equality in Norway, and here we see a very good development. For women, the part-time share has decreased from about 40 pst. in 2013 to 35 pst. in 2020, and 90,000 more women now work full-time than in 2013. Women are more exposed than men to violence in close relationships, to sexual harassment, rape, social control, sexual mutilation, and coercion. The Solberg Government prioritised the prevention and detection of such abuses, including: through the follow-up of a number of action plans in the field. In particular, a new action plan on violence in close relations was launched in August. We know that the extent of violence and abuse is increasing during crises, and the action plan therefore contains a separate chapter on overall preparedness for crisis against violence and abuse, based on the experience of the coronary apathy. The gender equality challenges must be addressed at an early age, and the Solberg government therefore reduced the YouthIDag Committee in 2018, which was tasked with addressing gender equality challenges for children and young people in the family, kindergarten and school, in the consumer field, on the screen and in leisure. The committee was to look in particular at reasons for gender-divided educational choices and the impact of the digital everyday life on gender equality. The result, in 2019, was the NOU ‘Jentherom, boys’ room and opportunity room — Equality challenges among children and young people’. If we are to succeed in achieving the sustainability targets by 2030, targeted work is required in all areas, while at the same time leading and coordinating to ensure a holistic approach. I therefore expect today's government to be forward-looking in its priorities and its efforts to achieve its objectives. Then you can't imagine that it's of great importance who runs such a work in such a college.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e1007	Sustainability targets are a common work plan to eradicate poverty, combat inequality and stop climate change. The objectives shall serve as a common global direction for countries, businesses and civil society. Sustainability objectives will address the causes of poverty, inequality and climate change. The government wants to link the work on sustainability goals to research, development and innovation. The Hurdal platform provides a good direction for Norwegian companies to develop and assert themselves internationally so that we can achieve the ambitious climate targets set. The public sector must also address the challenge of ensuring effective and sustainable development. Digitalisation with improvement and development objectives must take place in close cooperation with the private sector. There will be great opportunities in new competences, new activities and new growth industries that we will need in the future to solve our common future tasks. Work on sustainability objectives, public sector challenges and new industrial activities is a dependency that should in itself have the power and energy to drive development forward. It's a cheek egg. That is why I am pleased that the government, through the Hurdal platform, is supporting this cooperation by removing obstacles and unnecessary legislation. The legislative framework shall be thoroughly reviewed with a view to identifying and removing barriers to innovation and digitisation. The government will contribute to more growth enterprises with incubators, business areas and business clusters and reduce the duration of treatment for official business permits. The most important thing is to ensure good ownership of the challenges in municipalities across the country. There are great expectations that municipalities will be able to contribute to the challenges facing the world. All municipalities are asked to use the UN's sustainability targets in societal and spatial planning. Therefore, it is important that we establish a good understanding of a common challenge, establish good interaction and provide the municipalities with space for action and trust.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e1022	First, I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing an important topic, the biggest task facing the world – how to achieve sustainability goals by 2030. It's like the sustainability goals that this time it's all about every country, every society, and you can't choose between what sustainability goals you're going to achieve, if we're going to achieve all of them. In many of these, Norway is well off, but we also have some where we need to put down a lot of effort. Even though we're going to achieve all the sustainability goals, it's like saying that someone's lying there as a foundation. What is particularly about life on land, about life in the sea, about stopping climate change and about clean water, is a foundation for the other sustainability goals that we are going to achieve. In particular, with regard to the objectives of halting climate change and life on land, I believe that although the overall texts are in the Hurdal platform, action is very little. With a view to reducing greenhouse gas emissions in Norway, many of the details of the Granavolden platform are not now mentioned in the Hurdal platform. When we see the additional position issued by the government, it is cut in both nature and climate measures that the previous government put forward. And in the case of life on land, it is among other things. a direct cut in forest protection that I hope will not be what Storting will finally decide. The sustainability objectives must be comprehensive in all departments of the government and must lead all policies. At the same time, there are some areas where the municipal minister has a greater responsibility. I want to talk about life on land in particular. Now I and Left disagree that the Planning and Building Act and Land Planning are in that department, it should go back to the Ministry of Climate and Environment. But as long as it's there, that's what we have to deal with. One of the main challenges in nature in Norway is that we have a bit-by-bit reduction. It's the sum of decisions that take place in the municipalities, that lead to the loss of nature. Then the question is, what will the Council of State do to better deal with this? We have an agreement with the EU. With the climate target we have set with the EU towards 2030, we are now part of the European spatial neutrality target. That, too, is what we must begin to pursue in order to achieve. At the same time: last week, or the week before, Norway also agreed to stop deforestation internationally by 2030. Of course, there is a great deal of effort to stop the deforestation of rainforest, where Norway has a leading role, but the obligation is also to stop deforestation in Norway. We report quite a lot of deforestation – approx. In Norway, 1.8 million tonnes of emissions are caused by deforestation each year. How to stop this, including here, the government must have a plan for 2030. There are also other areas of spatial planning. In the past, it was up, this with clean water. How do we deal with the problem of flooding? Here the government and previous governments have been working for several years on how we introduce the flood fee. I hope that this decision is now ready for potting and can soon only be adopted, so we can put in place the instrument the municipalities need, which has been there since this was first investigated back in 2015. Other areas again, this is how we're going to get better at taking care of existing building mass. We have to tear less, build over and over. But then it may also be necessary to amend the Law on Planning and Building, in order to have the means to maintain building mass – not only on grounds of building protection, that you can regulate for conservation, but also how to facilitate the preservation and care of building mass. [[The President clubs.]] It is an important work — and the Council of State itself has an important role as the Council of State in that department and for the whole of government cooperation. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e1041	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e1046	Cities represent 70 pst. global greenhouse gas emissions and cities are growing. By 2050, 70 pst. of the world's population live in a city. Our cities in Norway are showing the way in climate policy. The problem is that the country often does not allow them to introduce measures that contribute to climate change. If we're to succeed in the climate struggle, we have to do everything we can for Norwegian cities to cut emissions. If the Council of State asks what he can do to enable our cities to work on sustainability goals, I've made him a small list. He can let big cities introduce zero-emission zones for car traffic. He can open the money bag for carbon capture and storage at Klemetsrud in Oslo. He can help secure the crisis, environmentally friendly and social public transport in major cities. He would also like to stop building motorways that destroy nature and increase car traffic and urban emissions. He can make sure that the money spent by the state on energy saving is also paid to tenants and to those with the least to route with. The Minister of Local Affairs is responsible for the fact that our nature is constantly and piecemeally being built down year after year. Nature protection can no longer be the preservation of small spots in a growing sea of damaged nature. We have to stop building down nature and start repairing what is already broken. If the Council of State wants to and dares to do so, he can become the Council of State responsible for ensuring that nature is preserved throughout the country. We will not succeed in the climate struggle if the government is a ‘party-type opera’ that says no, no, and again no in meeting the ambitious climate policy of the big cities. We will not succeed in the struggle to preserve our inalienable nature if the government goes in order for nature to be built down, instead of safeguarding the nature of future generations. We never reach our sustainability goals unless leading politicians dare to conduct the policy we need. The council has a golden opportunity to do just that, and he can begin with the list I have for him.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e1073	The President would point out that 'party-type operas' are not a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e1079	The Storting representative, Astrup, wants answers on how the government intends to follow up the UN's sustainability goals. Today, in the Chamber, he said that this means, among other things, Norway. to prevent school drop-outs and to increase the number of people entering the labour market. ‘It’s not a simple task, and therefore I find it very worrying that the sustainability targets are hardly mentioned in the Hurdal platform,’ said Astrup. In the previous government action plan to achieve sustainability goals, i.e. Report. St. 40 for 2020-2021, there are many good proposals for ‘possible Norwegian measuring points’, as stated in the Communication. Whether or not the government will follow the UN's sustainability goals is not about how often the word "carrying power" is mentioned in the Hurdal platform. It is about priorities, policy development and, of course, the phase itself, the fight for effectiveness, the concrete appropriations for the state budgets. Let's look at sustainability goal 4, good education. Under the sub-objectives of education in the Report. St. 40 for 2020-2021 the previous government proposed the following possible objectives for Norwegian school: the proportion of students completing secondary education, the proportion of persons aged 18-24 in education, work, unemployment or inactivity and the proportion of persons aged between 16 and 25 who are neither in education, employment or have completed and passed secondary education. In Hurdal, we agreed on concrete policies to qualify more people for work and to ensure that more people can support themselves and their families. That is why we have been lowering the maximum price in Kindergarten for the first time since 2013 in addition to the state budget. Therefore, we strengthen the municipal framework, so that municipalities can increase staffing, increase the competence and quality of kindergartens. What does kindergarten mean for the goal of completing high school? Politics works. The Stoltenberg government started its trial of free core time in kindergartens in selected Oslo urban areas from 2006. 4- and 5-year-olds in selected urban areas with a high proportion of minorities were offered free of charge at the core of the week. Researchers have now followed these children over time and found more positive results when students have taken national 8th-stage tests. These students have achieved better mastery in the national reading test. Children in low-income families where mother does not work seem to have the greatest benefit from free core time, taking into account both the reading and calculating skills of the 8th stage, and boys have the most benefits in terms of reading. Politics works – just look at what we've done in the City Council in Oslo. In recent years, students in Oslo have improved their qualifications both in secondary and secondary education. Several young people apply for vocational training, and several students complete and pass the school cycle. These are results in Oslo School that speak for themselves. The list is long, and I could just keep ramming up good grip from our government, such as. climate budget as a management tool. All sectors shall have emission targets and we shall start with climate budgeting, an annual commitment budget for greenhouse gas emissions, as part of the ordinary state budget. This is how climate and nature will lead the other policy. Now it's going to be serious. It is useful to go ahead and pave the way for new policies, but it requires courage and willingness to spend money to follow up, not just beautiful words in a big message.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e1096	Norway really has all the prerequisites for achieving the sustainability goals of good health and quality of life by 2030. We have a good public health service, it's safe to be pregnant, it's safe to give birth, and it's safe to be born. Lifetime goes up, serious diseases go down. We have a population that mostly follows vaccination programs, we don't get seriously ill by the water from the jump, and we're basically quite healthy. However, in some areas Norway makes it quite poor, and in these areas the new government does not do enough. Last year 324 people died of overdose in Norway. It is the highest figure since 2001, and Norway remains at the European peak in overdose deaths, and it is in a country with universal health care for all. Last year, the Stortinget and the Workers' Party had the opportunity of stopping stigmatisation and punishing people with addiction, but they chose to cancel the drug reform in the Stortinget. The Hurdal platform says that addicts are to be punished. But it's going to be a double mistake when only addicts are going to get that help. First of all, you can ask yourself how the government has intended to find out who is addicted enough to the drug and worthy of their help. How are they going to do it without simultaneously stigmatizing addicts even more? I'm excited about that. There is no good, humane or particularly old-age solution whose drug addicts should be given a kind of declaration that they are addicted enough, by their decision-makers. In addition, it's moving our courts into the medical office. Secondly, it violates the principles of equality in our state of law if we are to separate who is being punished and who is being helped in this way. In addition, it is wrong to believe that decriminalisation reduces the drug-testing threshold for young people. You might think that that threshold is high today, but that shows us that it's not. Some countries that have decriminalised have experienced lower rates of use. Some have been given a session use. When Sweden imposed stricter penalties for cannabis in 1997, in order to discourage it, the figures among young people did not decrease. They've rather gone the other way, year after year, and it's up. The only thing we actually achieve by punishing these young people is that we make them criminals. We make it harder for them to get a job. We make it difficult for them to keep the license, difficult to tell someone about their problems, difficult to call emergency situations when something serious has happened at a party. Yes, it turns out that we're increasing the chance that they're getting a criminal racetrack by criminalizing what they're doing. I think we can achieve the sustainability goals for health, but our drug policy needs to change. We need a drug policy based on knowledge and human rights, and right now the government is not willing to base its policy on any of the elements. They do not base it on knowledge when they feel that we are going to have severe penalties for drug law offences, when they think it does something about young people’s attitude to smoking hashish, and when they suspect that it sends a signal. They feel up to a policy that has serious consequences for some of those who would have most needed a new policy, in order to end stigma, understanding, equivalency and respect. There is no empirical evidence to suggest that decriminalising increases the use of drugs by young people. In a liberal democracy, the burden of proof should lie with those who will punish someone to make society better, but then the government has to explain to us how punishing individuals makes society a better place for us all. Then it doesn't keep feeling that it's the right thing to do. I think that when we get to 2030, the Workers' Party has also understood this. I'm a little more doubtful about the centre party, but I hope that someday, an almost unanimous uprising will adopt a drug reform where we go away from punishing people, and rather offer help. The problem is that while we wait for that majority, more people are stigmatized, more are being prosecuted for addiction, or for security reasons. And while we wait, we'll have more people who don't dare ask for help when they really need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e1130	In the debate on sustainability objectives, municipalities should be very central. The role of the municipalities is reflected to the extent in the Communication on Sustainable Development Goals, as presented by the Solberg Government in June of this year. All 273 times the word ‘municipality’ is mentioned in the Solberg Government’s own big message. A number of sustainability objectives relate to the services for which municipalities have an important responsibility. This applies, inter alia, to: in health, education, water and sewerage, local transport and spatial planning. Fortunately, we have a high degree of local government in these areas. With all the focus on municipalities in the light of sustainability goals, it would be thought that the Solberg government chose to play with the municipalities, to fund the municipalities in a good way, to believe in the local government. Unfortunately, the opposite was true. The previous government's policy towards the municipalities was forced and underfunded, and in the merged municipalities the bureaucracy grew rapidly. In four years the bureaucracy in the merged municipalities grew by 12.5 pst. This is money that could otherwise be spent on health, education and local development. This money now goes to more and more paid positions in the municipal administration. Today's government will reverse developments. We will bet on local government, bet on everyone who works in the municipalities, not least provide good funding for all of our common welfare services. The time for overrun of communities is over. Local communities will decide for themselves, people will gain more influence and be proud of their own place of residence. In particular, the government will carry out a trust reform in the public sector: more confidence in teachers, more trust in nurses, in cleaners and in decision-makers – more confidence in those who constitute the backbone of the welfare state. Centralising reforms are coming to an end that create large units with a long distance from those who make the decisions, to those who actually stand in the classroom or in the hospital to do the job. By listening to those who have shoes, we create a better health supply, we lift schools, create sustainable cities and communities, just a lot of what is promised in sustainability goals. The government's investment in municipalities and every single person working there is a prerequisite for Norway's achievement of sustainability objectives. Then I noticed that the Greens/Greens/EFA Council of State Council to introduce more zero-emission zones. I'd like to make a little comment on that. I would recommend everyone to read Lasse Fridstrom's articles in the Evening Post a few weeks ago. There he states that zero-emission zones are the answer to yesterday's environmental problem. The representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik asked the previous government if it would be good for the environment if zero-emission zones were introduced, if several replaced their petrol or diesel car with a new electric car. He did not get an answer to that. So introducing zero-emission zones will not be the answer either to achieving sustainability goals or to other challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e1139	The representative Astrup asked a very important question to the Council of State in its interpellation. There really needs to be a real debate and concrete plans for how to develop a holistic policy that gives a more viable future, and it is urgent. It's urgent because we have a natural crisis, a climate crisis and a disparity crisis today. Climate change is one of the toughest frameworks with least resources to adapt, both nationally and globally. Through our consumption pattern, we are one of the countries that have the most impact – in a negative direction – on the potential of other countries to achieve their climate goals. In the Paris agreement, we aim to cut half of our emissions by 2030 and become climate neutral by 2050, but this must happen without sending the bill to nature and losing even more biological deficiency. In 2010, 190 countries committed themselves to 20 targets to be met by 2020 in order to save biodiversity. The Global Biodiversity Outlook 5 UN report concluded in the autumn of 2020 that none of the targets had been reached from the Aichi meeting in Japan ten years earlier. It also applies to Norway. In spite of the Aichi goals and the creation of the Sea Panel, which the previous government must have great honor for taking the initiative, we did not reach the goal. In its vision for 2050, the biological deficiency is valued, preserved, restored, and used in a way that sustains the ecosystem, maintains a healthy planet, and gives vital benefits to all humans. That was the vision in the Aichi painting, but 50 pst. ecosystems have been destroyed in the last 50 years, and the five most important causes are man-made. I've seen it in close proximity – the seabird that was gone, the pastures that grow again. It's going to be researching, and we understand more and more of the interactions in the ecosystems the seabirds depend on, at sea and land. Seabirds are an important indicator of what happens to the environment. With over 40 pst. population decline, and for some species more, I hope that the action plan for seabirds, which was announced several years ago, will soon be on the table. Land change, over-exploitation and climate change are the three main causes of biodiversity loss. Since land use change has such an impact, there is also a lot of the key to reverse developments in the way we manage and use land on both sea and land. In addition to national and regional protection plans, municipalities have a key role to play in land management. Planning and building laws and municipal plans are the most important tool we have to reverse negative developments. The UN's impact targets point more and more to a holistic ecosystem-based management, both on land and sea, where we see man as part of that ecosystem. Digital tools are constantly breaking down the boundaries of how we can work on planning and integrating ecosystems into land, energy and environmental planning, both in the city and in the country, and there is cross-border cooperation to learn from each other. This gives hope. I am very curious as to what action the Council of State intends to take in order for municipalities to achieve national targets for biodiversity and sustainability, now that the framework for all policies is nature and climate. All changes take place locally – whether the grazing animals are being lost, whether a housing area is being built where there is a valuable green area, or a motorway across the wetlands. National, regional and municipal plans must all take more account of nature values. All land changes occur in a municipality. Nothing is global without being local, and nothing is local without being global. The municipalities are responsible for managing the land and the near coastline, and I think it is essential to set targets to complete the nature mapping that the municipalities have over them. Such ecological base maps could save the management enormously as one would know, early in all processes where one produces municipal plans, the value of the areas for biological deficiency in our last meeting, we should have achieved our measurements. [[President clubs again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e1156	The number is out.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e1161	As a representative of the Business Committee, I'm almost overwhelmed, because our committee is in many ways involved in all the 17 sustainability goals. For us, in other words, it's just to fold up the sleeves. In order for the world to achieve the sustainability targets by 2030, all parts of society must contribute. In practice, a citizen, a politician, a business leader or a social actor has to constantly ask himself about the activities, decisions, projects or production that a set of works contributes to social, environmental or economic viability. All three dimensions are equally important and actually also mutually dependent on each other. Fortunately, in Norway we have good intentions to reach the bearing force measurements. We have democratic institutions, a functioning judiciary, a high level of income, good public services and small differences between people and regions. It increases the chance of happiness. So the general confidence in our country is high. For years to come, Norway is facing a range of social, climate and environmental and economic challenges. An important commitment to happiness is that values are created, and that people have a job to go to. It gives us well-being, promotes equality and contributes to growth and good health. According to the report «Better Business, Better World» the bearing energy measure can in itself trigger a market of 12,000 billion. dollar and create 380 million new jobs towards 2030. So the UN targets will need a good and strong business life to succeed, while our businesses will have new opportunities to create jobs and values. The OECD, on its side, has recently calculated that up to 4 200 billion will be needed. US dollars in investment in developing countries in order to achieve the resilience target by 2030, inter alia: because the funding gap has increased as a result of the coronary apathy. In other words, the UN's resilience target is based on a belief that we are completely dependent on economic growth and private value creation. In other words, we have to have both human and money working to achieve the goal. There is a professional consensus on international issues, and it should be a crossroads of ideas for those representatives and parties who are increasingly seeking higher taxation, more governmental governance and fewer private initiatives. One of the main strategies for achieving the resilience target by 2030, therefore, must be to create more jobs, to include more people in the labour market and to do what we can to ensure economic growth in the years ahead – and businesses are involved. We see that more and more companies are basing their work on sustainability targets, and more and more businesses are seeing the potential to think resiliently. Using capital, innovation and the skills of the private sector, we see that new, green solutions are increasingly being developed for the future. It is also essential to meet the climate and environmental challenges. The Solberg government is putting in place several measures to facilitate access to risk capital and competent investments in line with our policies. This resulted: We strengthened the efforts for industrial research and innovation rights, and we support several major and important environmental projects. Longships can be an example of that. Investment in research and innovation is entirely fundamental if we are to reach the sustainability targets. This will require the state as a supporter, organizer and partner. On the other hand, there is less need for a country that will be a business operator and a competitor of our companies. As a politician with special responsibility for fisheries and aquaculture, I am also busy with the sustainability goals that relate to life in the sea. Norway is dependent on being able to house from a clean and rich sea. The value creation today and in the future is based on a good environmental state and a rich natural decline in the coastal and marine areas of Norway and a defensive and resilient management of the marine resources. Norway is the second largest exporter of seafood after China. These are many reasons, not least a fisheries and aquaculture industry that is the world's leading industry in almost all areas. In our context, however, it is natural to point out that we have a comprehensive and modern management system for sustainable fisheries and aquaculture. Fisheries management carried out research, consultation, monitoring of resource withdrawals and enforcement of legislation. Quota determinations and other regulations must be respected and documented in a reliable resource accounting. Norway shares 90 pst. of the commercial fisheries stocks with other coastal States. The Convention on the Law of the Sea requires cooperation on shared stocks, which also characterises national management. It is important that this be taken care of and strengthened in the future. Our business is a key to achieving the UN's sustainability targets. If our companies are to fill this role, we have to give the good and good framework conditions. Right has long traditions to help our business grow, strengthen and develop and create values and jobs – and so will we in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e1186	A few weeks ago, the new government platform was presented, and the new government statement has met with legitimate criticism not to present its solutions to cities. Therefore, it is relevant to recall sustainability objective No. 11, sustainable cities and communities. With the Right in Government, we have shown that we take these goals seriously – over eight years together with our civil partners. There is hardly any political field that does not concern a city or community. At the same time, it is a fact that some challenges are particularly strong in the major cities, and it is alarming that urban living conditions challenges are little affected in the Hurdal platform. Cities have greater social challenges, but they also have a greater capacity to meet these challenges. Then they need politicians who play with them. Also in the opposition, the Right will be the guarantor of a policy that balances social differences and gives citizens the opportunity to live a good life, no matter what the background. I wish, among other things, The Minister of Labour and Social Affairs had been here today to talk about this. Sustainable urban and urban development is essential for addressing global and local climate challenges. The clear largest emission source in Norwegian cities is the transport sector. That's why we wanted to bet on urban growth agreements while we've been in government, and that's what we want to do in opposition. I would like the Minister of Climate Change and the Minister of Transport to be here today to highlight these issues. A comprehensive spatial planning is an important prerequisite for regional growth. There must be a link between the construction of road and track and the construction of housing and business. Both large and surrounding municipalities can think a lot together – or keep thinking little by little. In fact, the Minister of State is here today to talk about some of this, but I wish the Minister of Industry could also be here to talk about these things. The legacy of the previous red-green government was a great slowdown in housing construction, over-control of local democracy in construction works, and that too many were outside the housing market. We started the reverse operation, and in opposition, the Right will continue to work to simplify the Planning and Building Act, to facilitate better housing, business and social development, and to provide a greater room for local self-government. For the first time in many years, we see that the arrows for starting new homes are pointing upwards, and we're going to do our part to keep the pressure up. In the eight-year period 2012–2020, i.e. mostly during the previous government period, the number of homeless persons was almost halved, which means that there have never been so few homeless people in Norway. At the same time, there are still more than 3000 people who are homeless, and many who are struggling to enter the housing market. It is a political responsibility to help disadvantaged people get into the housing market. Unstable living conditions and constant movement go beyond the children, who have to change school and change their circuit. I wish we had a knowledge minister here today, who could talk a little bit about those things -- what that means for the vulnerable children of these families in particular. In order to help the disadvantaged enter the housing market, the Husbank has a very important role to play. Since 2013, over 50,000 people have received 50 billion. kr in starting loans from the House Bank, which has contributed to a more stable everyday life. There are also a number of other important instruments for getting people into the housing market, including: Rent-to-owner models, which the Right in Government stood in the chest to test out in as many municipalities as possible, a targeted BSU scheme – which I note is that the Hurdal platform does not exactly support – to people who do not own housing, and new and simpler solutions to allocate municipal housing. Then I am not talking about SV's third housing sector, which I suspect will eventually be imposed on the new government, but we will have to wait and see. I hope the Støre government will continue to give priority to the efforts of the Solberg government for those who are struggling in the housing market. I therefore hope the Council of State – now there is only one Council of State here today, so I would say ‘the Council of State’ – can say something more about how we can contribute to faster housing in the press areas, contribute to equalising social differences, ensure that we still have a social housing policy, and ensure that children have good growing-up conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e1211	UN Sustainable Development Goal No. 6 involves ensuring ‘access to water and good sanitary conditions for all’. To achieve this goal, it is imperative that we have a good wiring network, safe water sources and back-up water. In Norway, there is now a lack of spare capacity for clean drinking water in a number of municipalities, and without a good alternative supply there may be a critical shortage of water in the population. In addition, several small waterworks have remaining work to ensure hygienic quality, while poor wiring networks result in large leakages, up to 60 pst. the water never reaches the subscribers. This means that the risk of drinking water-related disease increases and the cost of upgrading is high. According to the SSB statistics, the average annual line renewal is only 0,7 pst. This means that new wires will lie for 140 years before they are replaced at the pace of the day. The upgrade requirement to reach baseline character 4 is calculated for 250 billion. kr for the water mains and 320 brd. NOK for the sewer network, i.e. a total of 570 billion. kr. These are costs falling within the scope of self-sufficiency, i.e.: the cost shall be borne by subscribers in the form of increased fees for ordinary people. Distributed to residents of the country, the investment need will involve a charge of more than DKK 100000 per capita, large and small. The cost of improvements in small municipalities with low population density may be significantly higher per capita. There are basically three possible approaches to this major challenge. The first option is for municipalities to continue today's replacement rate, which means 140 years of life on the waterline. Other options are to implement a lift on the mains and to reduce costs to the population. Either it is financed through increased municipal fees or through the tax bill, it is the same wallet that the money comes from. $100,000 per capita is much too common people. A third option is to reduce the costs of achieving a satisfactory quality of water for the inhabitants and the necessary renewal of the water supply network. This is the most demanding option, but it is worth examining what opportunities it is to build smarter and less bureaucratic, and how regulation can focus on good and sustainable water quality rather than on building methods. We have approx. 1 600 waterworks in Norway, of which approx. 1 100 are in municipal or intermunicipal ownership. We have 356 municipalities, with different requirements for the contractors who are going to put pipes on the ground. Structural conditions may prevent innovation and innovation in water supply. I must stress that large municipalities are not necessarily the answer here. The country's largest municipality, Oslo, is building new reserve water supply in these days. This summer there have been cost increases of 5 billion. kr and then a further 7 brd. kr. This project underlines more than anything else that it is necessary to work harder to find innovative solutions for both water supply and water supply to the population. This is not something that each country's 1,600 waterworks can be expected to bring up without delay. The Government of Solberg therefore launched an opportunity study to make the efficiency potential visible in the water and sewerage sectors and socio-economic impacts visible. It will be important for this potential study to be followed by the Government of Støre when the short-term report is available, so that citizens can have a safe and sustainable water supply at an affordable cost.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e1234	The sustainability targets are very broad. That is what this debate shows. But it's not just in this hall the sustainability targets are central. Increasingly, we see social institutions and businesses now clarify how they contribute to achieving sustainability goals. In other words, sustainability targets set a direction. Then I agree with those who say that it is not enough with beautiful words, whether it is in wholesale messages or in platforms. It is the content of the policy and the measures we are taking that are crucial. One of the important sustainability goals, because it's so crucial for so much, is just education. Education is the key to both social and economic sustainability, and it is also crucial for us to achieve the Paris objectives and the environmental objectives. Good education helps to manage your own income, participate and contribute to the labour market, but it is also vital for our common well-being to get the most out of work. Here, too, is my concern, and one of the reasons why the interpellation was raised, is precisely that we are uncertain about the direction and measures of the government. I am pleased that the Council of State in its statement says that it is important to reduce non-response, but the government has no goal for how many to complete. The government, on the other hand, is clear as to which measures in school are to be weakened, which measures of competence are to be reduced. I agree with the representative of Gåsemyr Staalese that it is fine with cheaper kindergartens, and it is nice for people in all grades to pay something less. But that's the policy that the Solberg government has implemented, which has been targeted at low-income families, with free core time, with lower parental pay for low-income families, with the joint effort we have had with the big cities in the living areas, which have really helped us get some of the marginalised groups into kindergarten as well. I agree that is important. Strengthening the pedagogical density of kindergarten is important. I am pleased that the new government is therefore following up the policies of the previous government in this area, but our concern is to lower the qualifications of teachers, that the government is not saying a word about basic skills, how important it is with early efforts and intensive training, that we are taking the order to weaken the absenteeism limit, and that we are now removing the four-year requirement for access to teacher training. It is these concrete measures that we know work, which have contributed to the fact that we have gone from one out of four to eight out of ten actually implementing. So my concern about the new government in the field of education is not the lack of beautiful words, but the measures we know seem to weaken to get more people to participate and contribute and more to completing high school. The Government of Solberg also moved the field of integration to the Ministry of Knowledge. It did – again – because knowledge is the key, language is the key, education is the key to good integration. I note that the new government has moved the area of integration to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. My concern is that it has moved to a department that does not have the tools that the Ministry of Knowledge had just to contribute to good integration policy. We see the school succeeds. Many young people with a migrant background make an impressive social journey through the education system. They are among the groups that make the most of their education, and not least in higher education, we see that young people with immigrant background do the most impressive thing. Let this be a message of concern to me as regards both the government's concrete policy in the field of education and also a possible weakening of efforts in the field of integration, once it has moved from the Ministry of Knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e1255	We all have a responsibility to contribute to a better and more sustainable world. With the Right in Government and Erna Solberg as Prime Minister, Norway was at the forefront for adoption and implementation of the sustainability targets. In order to achieve the objectives, we need to act globally, but also locally and nationally, and to which the interpellant refers, we need to work together across societal areas. Also in the field of employment and social affairs, we can do our part, because sustainability targets 8 are just about promoting sustainable, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full employment and decent work for all. I think the U.N. connection itself says it brilliantly: ‘To eradicate poverty and combat inequality in the world, everyone must have jobs. In order for this to happen, we need to create fair economic growth and new jobs. This means that we must include young people in the labour market, ensure a stable and safe working life, facilitate more women to work and reduce informal and undeclared work.’ It's like reading the Right Application. First of all, jobs must be created. We have to have a policy where we put together. Then what the Workers' Party and the Centre are now proposing is the wrong way to go: tax returns for industry, cuts in national roads and shaving down Nysnø Climate investment their investments in sustainable jobs of 400 million. kr. Rather, as the Right suggests, we have to make it easier to start and work in the company, fix competitive taxes, good roads, and fix investment in research and innovation. In order to achieve the sustainability objectives, we need to help those who are now outside and knock on the door of work. Therefore, the State must go ahead in the inclusion dungeon and meet the objective of at least 5 pst. all new staff shall have holes in the CV or be persons with disabilities. That's why we have to have a duty and right of activity for social welfare recipients, so that they get the follow-up they deserve, to stay active and be prepared to get back to work. Therefore, the Right presented its own big message, None outside, with more concrete measures to include more in working and social life. It was a great surprise when the Workers' Party and the Centre decided to scrape and withdraw that message. It is only a clear signal that there are not only county mergers to be reversed, but also measures to get more people to work and achieve the sustainability goals. Those who are outside and want to enter the labour market do not have time to wait for the new government to shop on guard. They need the measures now. In addition to creating jobs and including more people, the sustainability target is decent work, thirdly, less involuntary part-time and more full-time. The right-hand side strengthened the preference of the entire position, and we see the results. The part-time of women has fallen, and the full-time has gone up. There are now 90,000 more full-time employed women than when we took over in 2013, and this development must continue. Fourthly, we must ensure decent work for all also by taking up the gloves against the crime of working life. With the Right, the sanctions against the criminals became harder, the controls more frequent, and the sharing of information between the police, the Labour Inspectorate and those who were going to crack the criminals. Those who don't follow the rules have to tighten up, and those who don't get sharpened have to go away. With the Right, we're going to contribute to decent work and economic growth if we have to draw the government with us. We're going to do that because the world needs it, and because the sustainability goals are to be achieved.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e1278	Let me start by making a visit to the Sandtrøen representative. The representative took up the municipal economy and the legacy after the bourgeois government, and then it might be worth recalling what kind of starting point we had when the government took over eight years ago. Then there were 46 municipalities on the ROBEK list, now there's 17. Then the local government sector had 30 billion. kr on the book, now they have 70 billion. kr on book. And this year alone, the local government sector will have added 3.2 billion. NOK in additional tax revenue that they may retain in 2022. It's going to add up to the 5.9 billion. kr which is estimated to increase tax revenue by 2021, which was not foreseen and which the municipalities then retain this year, and which, of course, gives them a better starting point for the next year. It is not right that bureaucracy grew as a result of our policies. There were red-green municipalities, ahead of municipal mergers – mostly the largest cities – that increased their bureaucracy, and it will be exciting to follow the development of the central administration in terms of the number of employees, if this representative is involved. So I would like to thank you for a debate that shows the breadth and complexity of the work to achieve the sustainability goals. And when the Council of State points out that I'm concerned about who's leading what, and who's answering what -- well, that's exactly why I'm concerned about who's answering what, and who's leading what. It is important for the work on sustainability goals that it is anchored to the top. We also had a discussion about whether it was the undersigned or the Prime Minister who was to lead the National Forum on Sustainable Development, and we fell to the conclusion that it had to be Prime Minister Erna Solberg. That Prime Minister Støre then chooses to say no to this, also says something about his lack of commitment to this area. And when the Prime Minister decides that the Council of State will answer Gram on behalf of 16 government councils when it is far from the constitutional responsibility of the Council of State to do so, it also says something about the Prime Minister's personal commitment to this. That's why it's important. If we are to succeed in having leadership from the top, each State Council must take responsibility for its task in order to help us achieve the goals by 2030. I am pleased that this national forum is being continued, and I wish the Council of State luck with the work he is about to do. There are many good reasons why Norwegian administration is organised as it is. It is largely about being able to place clear responsibility on top. However, the coordination responsibility of the Council of State will be particularly important in order to achieve precisely the multidisciplinary, cross-departmental, cross-sectoral solutions to achieve the sustainability objectives by 2030. I know that the Council of State itself has a commitment to this, but my attempt now with this interpellation was about giving the Council of State a little drag help to also involve the other councils in this work – make sure that he does not become lonely, but that it simply becomes a college that's pulling the load. And I'm going to give the council a little pin coming down, as a reminder of the responsibility that now rests on him as responsible for coordinating sustainability goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e1293	Then there's a pins crossing in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e1298	I obviously had on me the wrong dress jacket today, so the pink I had on the other one, I didn't get here today. Let me first of all thank you for the interpellant's care and attempts at drag help. We're going to have to bring what we can. Then I should like to thank you for the interpellation and debate. What was particularly important for me to determine in this debate now was the government's high ambitions to follow up and work systematically to achieve the sustainability goals by 2030. In particular, it is important to ensure that we have the structures and systems in place for that. It's about clarifying government responsibilities. It is about clarifying the notification contained in the Storting, about the establishment of national forums, about annual reporting, etc. Let me then answer some of the questions raised during this debate. First to the representative Stokkebø, who challenges working and business life: Well, let me at least say that the government already in the supplementary number shows considerable efforts to ensure more included in the working life. Despite the fact that unemployment is now falling fortunately, the number of action places is increasing by 1 000. The number of permanent job placements increases by 250. We strengthen the work of getting more immigrant women into work, and we strengthen the allocation to Nav and the Labour Inspectorate. This is precisely a concrete policy to ensure that we can include more people in the labour market. The representative, Mr Kapur, addresses the question of urban solutions. Well, what is the government now delivering? A strong strengthening of the municipal economy – Oslo’s economy alone is strengthened by about a quarter of a billion dollars. We are strengthening the area operation in Oslo, Trondheim and Bergen. We warn about strengthening contributions to the urban growth packages. We are strengthening housing policy. There are concrete policies to respond to the important importance of cities in achieving many sustainability goals. Government alerts the Hurdal Platform to simplified planning and building laws, to ensure local autonomy in land policy, to coordinate and limit objections, etc. The debate has shown that there are very many policy areas affected by sustainability work, and the government will return to a systematic follow-up as the Hurdal Platform is to be followed up and materialised in concrete policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e1311	The debate on substance is closed. So 6 is over. Today's map is thus fully debated, and Stortinget is now taking a break. In accordance with the announced agenda, there will be voting at 0 p.m. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e1334	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e1346	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Marian Hussein, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party proposal No 3, from Marian Hussein on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to promote the covid-19 provisions of the regulation on isolation, quarantine and corona hotels as legislative proposals, in order to enable the Stortinge to take a decision on these provisions in line with the requirements of the Code on Disease Protection and the Emergency Act.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e1372	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a proposal for provisions for the national use of the Korona certificate, with provisions and limitations on the areas where the certificate can and cannot be used.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e1389	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I The following Section 9 is added: The regulation given by virtue of the second paragraph of Section 4-3 and the second paragraph of Section 4 A-2 shall be notified in writing immediately after publication. If representatives of the Grand Duchy, representing at least one third of the members of the Grand Duchy in total, are unable to support the regulation, or parts thereof, and express this in writing in accordance with the rules of procedure adopted in the Grand Duchy, the Ministry shall immediately abolish the provisions in question. The decision to repeal the regulation shall be notified to the Grand Duchy in accordance with the provisions of the first sentence.’;» The Greens and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e1512	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e1522	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e1534	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Hege Bae Nyholt on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party proposal No 2, from Hege Bae Nyholt on behalf of Red There is a vote on proposal No. Two, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that parents receive a reduced parental benefit if the kindergarten has reduced the opening time due to infectious disease control measures.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e1558	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that employees in kindergarten and school are compensated for additional work due to the pandemic, such as infectious diseases.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e1629	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e1639	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e1694	The Left Party, the Red Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e1706	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Left Party, the Red Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e1720	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget. Case No. 5 and 6 were interpellations.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-18.ana.ud292e1782	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
