ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e139	An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative Åsunn Lyngedal from 10 June until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Kjell-Idar Juvik, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e159	Kjell-Idar Juvik is present and will take the seat. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox Case No. 1 to 4 will be treated as a whole. The cases are the second reading of laws and relate to legislative acts 158–161.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e214	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e230	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e247	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e254	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for a good cooperation in the matter, where, as a meeting party, I have been so lucky to be in both the first and the last part of the debate. This case concerns the SV’s proposal to take the necessary measures to ensure water and sewerage, and seven points of proposal were promoted in the representative’s proposal itself. The Committee has received letters of response from the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment, which have all been commented on. There are also written recordings from seven instances. The Committee's recommendation is that the Storting should ask the Government to submit proposals for a sectoral law for the water and sewerage sector and that a state system be explored which helps to reduce geographical differences in costs of connecting to water and sewerage and differences in fees. Three minority proposals are promoted in the case, one from SV and two from the Centre Party and SV in the team. I would like to bring up the two proposals that the Central Party is involved in promoting, and then I would like to say that the Central Party supports the SV's proposal. It is a very important issue that is raised in this matter, and it has many aspects. The EU Water Directive requires the status of surface water and groundwater to be protected from deterioration; the status should be improved and restored with a view to ensuring good ecological and chemical status of water bodies by the end of the year we are in. We are totally dependent on a well-functioning water and sewerage system in Norway, and close to 90 pst. the population is connected to municipal facilities. The latest report from Norsk Water, to which reference is made in the case, shows that the total investment need over the next 20 years is 332 billion. kr. The enormous need for upgrading is due to the fact that poor and out-of-date facilities are available in many places, but it is also due to the fact that many of the requirements imposed by the EU Directive and its related regulations are perceived as oversized, both in the transferred and perhaps in the literal sense. I'm going to learn more about what the Central Party is experiencing as the main challenges, in a later article, but there are two things that stand out to me: one is that we need a state investigation into a national emergency water system to secure the population drinking water in a crisis. The second is that we need a horizontal sectoral law on water and sewerage, as we have in many other comparable areas, for example. the Energy Act, the Road Law, the Pollution Act, the Nature Diversity Act and the Water Resource Act. In preparing such a sectoral law, you will be able to highlight all the challenges that exist in this area, and I hope this is something the majority of the Biggest sees the value of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e271	The representative, Kari Anne Bøkestad Andreassen, has addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e276	Let me start by thanking Norsk Vann, who has worked hard for several years to increase the attention of public vocabulary on the importance of clean water. They have also made important contributions to the handling of this matter. Water is something we all need, and we don't get along without it. Fortunately, we in this country are blessed with good drinking water solutions. However, it has been important in this case for the Workers' Party to stress that the water supply is a municipal responsibility. It's been a lot of years. Most of the municipalities in this country have taken responsibility and contributed to ensuring their inhabitants a sound and good water supply system. When there is also a question in this case about the responsibility for securing emergency water, let me stress from the Labour Party that it is also the responsibility of the municipality. In their contingency plans, the municipality has to take into account how they will deal with it if a situation arises in which the water supply they depend on would fail in their daily lives. This does not mean that the municipality alone should be the one that has a scheme for it – here the municipalities would like to find together with neighbouring municipalities. And yes, if the state wants to take responsibility, it's okay, but the responsibility of this room is said to be the municipalities. They have to take that. I need to stress the importance of what has been requested from the water sector over several years, and there is more coordination related to responsibility for water and sewerage. One of the concrete measures we have asked for before, which is repeated today, and on which proposals are being made, is that the government is asked to make a proposal for a sectoral law on the water and sewerage sector, which takes a holistic approach to what the challenges we are facing, where the limits of responsibility go, and how this is to be financed. In conclusion, there is also a proposal from the Centre Party and SV to impose a fee of up to 50 kroner in addition to self-cost. We believe that this is a first step towards an erosion of the principle of self-sufficiency, and we do not want to put that behind us. Research and investigation should be financed on this basis, but it should not be financed under the principle of self-sufficiency in each municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e289	There is today a great need for maintenance of the water and sewerage network in Norway. The representative's proposal takes up some suggestions to be able to improve this. Initially, I would like to stress that the municipalities have a great responsibility, and they should have a great responsibility when it comes to the water and sewerage network. Several of the measures proposed by the proposers are already under consideration by the government, and we therefore consider it appropriate to await the outcome of this work. Renewal and refurbishment of the grid will require substantial investment in the future. Against this background, a feasibility study has been launched to identify the potential for efficiency in the water and sewerage sectors and the socio-economic impacts. Water and sewerage in five sectors, and, therefore, it is particularly important that this study is also developed on a multidisciplinary basis. So the government has already taken an important initiative that will provide us with a holistic basis for selecting the right actions to meet the challenge picture that this representative proposal addresses. We therefore look forward to the report and that careful assessments will be carried out before comprehensive action is taken. The representatives propose in their proposal to withdraw safe drinking water from the food law and into a sectoral law. This is a change that we in the Right do not want to support. We believe that drinking water is one of our most important food products and a provision for safe food production. In 2003, drinking water was covered by the Food Act, and the supervision of drinking water was added to the Food Authority in 2004. Taking drinking water out of the food law will weaken the health aspect, and the change will also mean that drinking water is no longer considered to be our most important food. That's what we think would be very unfortunate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e302	It is an important issue that has been put on the agenda here, so I would like to thank the proposers and Norwegian Vann for helping us to have this debate. Water is important to all of us, and it's important for a municipality. But I don't think this is the case that characterizes the daily debate corky in local government or municipalities unless there are challenges attached to it. We are well aware of this from my constituency, where the municipality of Askøy really experienced that water both shaped the word change and put the municipality on the map. The report on the basis of which we have this debate, and which shows the great slowdown in the water and sewerage sectors, will probably help to ensure that water policy is seen more on the agenda in the future in Norwegian municipalities and will shape the word change much more than it has done. We agree with what was said earlier, that this is basically a municipal responsibility, and we have the principle of self-sufficiency that underlies. This means that one cannot owe to the local economy because one has not maintained, that one has not made the necessary investments, and that one is not up to date. For this is something one can finance directly through self-cost, and with which one does not have to burden the ordinary municipal register, with the investment and operation of their facilities. We come in the concrete proposals to solve the government party and have comments to explain the background. Some of the proposals are in our hands because there is already a ongoing work associated with it, so it is unnecessary to adopt it again. We don't know what we're talking about, because we're opposed to something like that. to introduce a new charge of 50 kroner at the top of the self-cost. There is no policy we thought we should adopt in this room – to go beyond the local self-government. Nor does it seem to us to be a good policy to regulate the level of education to be offered. If one is to assume this maintenance run, there will be a guaranteed need for many jobs related to the operation and maintenance of the facility, which will mean that one will measure out the people, one is required to assign people. For our part, we hope that the jobs will preferably come in the private sector, which sells services to Norwegian municipalities, more than Norwegian municipalities will add many more. Here it is quite obvious that the business community will have many assignments about Norwegian municipalities taking this responsibility seriously. When it comes to the use of money in this matter, we have the basic idea that we give priority to the budget. On Monday we shall have some money in the revised national budget and will not vote to make money available in this proposal. That's why we're voting against the money proposals that's at stake.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e317	The reason why we have promoted this proposal is precisely to take better care of water and to ensure that the water and sewerage network we have in the municipal sector is functioning in the future. Everyone is aware of the problems with it in the future and how it should be resolved. It is about coordinating legislation, so that it becomes tidy, and it is about research efforts to bring about new solutions that could, quite rightly, be good cooperation between the private and public sectors and create many jobs in the future. Norway may be in the forefront here. It is also a proposal to enable this to be implemented. The report published by Norsk Water shows that the water and sewerage fees could reach NOK 30 000, NOK 40 000, yes NOK 45 000 for many households if you only apply the principle of self-sufficiency. We think that in SV is simply not possible. You could say that this is the responsibility of local politicians, and yes, it is, but it's very late now, and one of the reasons is enough is that no one has a particular desire to pay on these bills locally. We believe that the state must take greater responsibility for this than it is today. In addition, we believe that the State needs to be able to finance research and development efforts in this area, and that is why we are asking for this 50 kroner premium. Then it's about emergency water. It's right that it's also a municipal responsibility. And I think it can be solved by local and regional problems – where we believe municipal responsibility solves this – but not if there are major national disasters. Then we need cooperation, where the state is co-responsible and contributors in order to secure emergency water in very large, critical situations. It is not appropriate for every municipality to have equipment for this, and I do not think the Stortinget believes that. So I'm a little surprised that it's not possible to get a majority to look at it, because it's necessary to have such solutions. I understand that several representatives depend most on the responsibility of the municipalities, and there is no doubt about it. However, the State needs to assume regulatory responsibilities and facilitate this implementation. Finally, there is nothing in this proposal that weakens the protection of water. On the contrary, it will of course be taken into account in a new law proposed. I'm addressing SV's suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e336	The representative Karin Andersen then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e341	It's an important thing that's being raised here. There is no doubt that the water and sewerage sector is facing major challenges in the future and that action is needed in several areas. So the government has already taken important initiatives, and we're going to do more. I think it's important to make sure that you have a good knowledge base in place before a set of new actions. The proposal from the Committee on Sectoral Laws for the water and sewerage sector – or what may then appear to be the minority’s proposal for sectoral law – must be seen in the context of the overwater selection recommendation for a new sectoral law. The selection proposal only includes regulating the service, i.e. the relationship between the municipality that owns and the service provider and the subscribers. The selection underlines that cross-sectoral rules in e.g.: the laws on pollution or the laws on planning and building should be kept where they are. The proposal from the Environment Directorate to extend water and sewerage legislation, which was being heard last year, will remain the sector law recommended by the selection. That proposal is for consideration in the Ministry of Climate and Environment. I would therefore recommend waiting for the examination of that proposal before Stortinget decides to submit a proposal for a new sectoral law. After this, I will return to Stortinget with an assessment of the sectoral law, as determined in call decision No. 914 in 2017. A major change in the regulatory framework beyond the recommendations of the overwater selection can create challenges that we do not have an overview of now and that in the event should be carefully assessed. I do not recommend supporting the proposal for a government scheme to reduce geographical differences in connection and annual fee costs. Current legislation is already open to adapt costs and charges to current policies and local conditions. In addition, I believe that the efficient operation and development of new technologies are important to keep the costs of the fee down. The Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Ministry of Climate and Environment have taken the initiative of a feasibility study of the water and sewerage sector which is to highlight the potential for efficiency and assess the use of new knowledge and technology. There will be an important knowledge base, and I recommend waiting for the report from the study, which is scheduled to come later this year, before a set of evaluations of a new government scheme. I also think that one should wait for that report before launching a review of a new national system for wet-water equipment, as a minority here suggests, and the same applies to the proposal to make changes to the laws in order to make a 50-kr-attack per subscriber. There's, as I'm starting to say, an absolute need to discuss these questions, and it's good that there's an engagement around it, because it needs to. Many have to be made in the future, but then a good knowledge base has to be in place before a conclusion is reached.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e356	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e362	We all agree here today that water is important, whether it's for nutrition, for animals or for humans, but if I'm going to sum up the posts of the Council of State, there's a lot of references to investigations, and that we should wait for a greater knowledge base. What we are promoting here today on a new sectoral law is not a new decision, it is just a follow-up to a previous one, but it is an expression of impatience. There is an impatience also in the industry after taking care of this. And it's -- if I'm going to pick a maybe unparliamentary expression -- a ticking bomb out in the municipal sector when this bill comes on the table, so it's urgent to get a code in place. The knowledge of the Council of State is to a great extent commendable, but when will he come to the Grand Duchy with a proposal for a law?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e369	As I mentioned in my article, the Environment Directorate has been listening to a proposal that we are now considering in the Department, and we are coming to Stortinget as soon as we have completed those assessments. Of course, I understand that one person in this case, as in many other cases, is impatient after having laws and other initiatives to deal with. But I think we should not decide that we should now present the type of sector law that is requested by at least part of the representatives in this setting, because the legislation that it adopts, when it wishes, covers the responsibility of very many authorities: the Ministry of Oil and Energy, the Ministry of Health and Care, my Department, the Ministry of Municipal Affairs. There is also a reason why it takes some time to find good regulation here, because one has to be careful not to – in earnest after gathering all the rules in one place – end up creating new challenges, new holes and responsibilities powdering. So we have to know what we're doing, and that's why the government is working hard on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e376	I am pleased that the government is working hard on this, but I would only have wanted the government to work a little faster. The Council of State here in Stortinget itself referred to a request decision which is now several years old. Now this session runs out, the request decision has not been followed up, and the Council of State is still unable to respond to when the proposal of law comes, which is to be based on the new knowledge. It is my opinion that we need to be careful so that it is fantastically perfect – everyone's mother – that we should not get in the way of better solutions. I have great respect for the fact that this is complicated, that is most of the things we deal with in the Storting. It affects a lot of people, but it is also vital for many people. It suggests that we have to put in place what is being asked for, which gives us great challenges. So I try again: can the Council of State at least sketch a time horizon for when he thinks he's able to present a law to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e383	Yes, it is true that there are some welcome decisions here that are a few years old. I can reveal that there are some of them, and that is because the Stortinge has gone from adopting a couple of dozens of appeal decisions in the year to 400-500, without the Stortinge seems to have the corresponding desire to mannify the capacity of the ministry to follow them up. But we follow up as fast as we can, and it also applies to this, and now we have rules out on the ears. That's, I think, a very good start, and it's getting closer to getting a code in place. The government is absolutely going to follow this up, so we're working hard on it, and if the representative Sivertsen and the rest of the committee, and the Stortinget otherwise, want this to be something we're going to achieve, there's every reason to make sure that the government continues to work on this matter in the future – and it has Norwegians choosing the option to go to the fall.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e390	As we know, the cost of connecting to the sewer plant is very different if one lives in blocks with 40 apartments, or if one lives half a mile from the nearest neighbor. As I understood the Council of States, he was not willing to look at a balancing mechanism to solve this. But we have someone who lives so far away that they might get a bill of 500,000 kroner when that connection obligation comes in. I guess we've all, at least apparently, agreed that we're going to make sure that it's going to be possible to live all over the country. Does the Council see any possibility of getting exemptions for those who live enormously far away from the main sewer line? After all, there will be microscopic quantities, but there will be totally unacceptable costs for the families affected by it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e397	I understand that both the representative and the central party are busy with local self-government. Now it is the case that today the municipalities are able to adopt these fees, and it includes the possibility of approving other schemes for the individual if there are grounds for doing so. For example, if the ownership is far from the municipal wiring network, there will be no obligation to connect unless the municipality wants to expand the wiring network to trigger that obligation. The municipality will also grant permission to an own solution. So this is a pretty big room for action for today. That being said, a feasibility study, a technical basis for improving efficiency, reducing costs and triggering greater socio-economic impacts on the whole sector has been launched in several other departments. That study becomes important, and when we get that report, he will provide a good basis for possibly also putting in place new policies for what has to do with structure, but I recommend that we wait for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e404	I am fully aware of the municipality's ability to, for example. having a private installation, but a private installation according to the standard now required by the EU costs NOK 250 000 to NOK 300000. In any case, there will be a disproportionate cost, e.g.: for a lone minimum pensioner living in a house 5 km away from the nearest neighbour and perhaps even further away from the main water supply. Does the Council not see the need for an exception clause to address that issue? Anyway, it's going to be microscopic emissions. One currently has plants approved according to the old standard, but now the EU requires filtration ditches to be provided without a fall. It has never been the standard when you have built a house in Norway in the last 50 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e409	I understand that this is a demanding and definitely important problem setting locally, but I think that one has a large room to find solutions locally within the law we have today. It is clear that the fee may be very high in individual situations, but one cannot charge anything more in charge than the necessary costs. One can also charge a lower fee because municipalities can choose to finance this in other ways, for example. through taxes on ownership or changes in economic priorities in general in the local government budget. So yes, one can charge a fee up to the cost principle, but one can also choose to lower. One can choose to say that a person has different rules according to the situation in the municipality, and some conditions are no doubt special, and someone is far from a wired network. So the starting point is that I think there is good flexibility today to find good local solutions, but as I said, the study we have now ordered and are waiting for could provide a basis for looking at new policies in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e414	There was a lot of waiting-and-see in the articles of the Council of State. It's urgent in this area, because the problems don't get any less for every day that goes, and the cost of this doesn't get any less. Now we hear that the Council of State says that there is a certain local space for action here in order perhaps to help some of those who are the most vulnerable, but as in general the report from Norsk Water shows that if we are to build out on a marine diet, the fees will be so large that it will be completely impossible for very many people to pay it. Then there will be no room in the local economy to finance it up when it's not going to be sea food, with hundreds of millions of dollars. So the Council of State says that it is possible to imagine some measures by the state to remedy this. Can the Council of State be specific about what it is the state can do that makes the fees not get so high that people can't pay them?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e421	I agree that there are large investment needs in many municipalities. It is probably also the case – I think we should be able to say – that there are many municipal politicians who insist on cancelling a fee to implement the investments, even if they are necessary, and even if it is the municipality's responsibility. Then one might say that this is where the state should be more involved. Now I can't remember from the SV's alternative state budget that there are billions there in special grants to municipalities to improve water and drainage systems, but it is possible that the representative can correct my impression. In that case, there will be something that can help. In that case, it's what we're talking about, that the state has to go in with a lot of resources, like a take-off from other purposes in the state budget. It is now time for investments to cost money. Whether or not to charge it, whether to increase the tax on ownership, or whether to take all or part of the responsibility, is of course a political choice, local and in the Storting, but that's what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e430	That's why we have proposed this five-step approach, in order to speed up the process of developing efficient operations, which the Council of State is talking about, so that at a smaller amount you can contribute to the development that is. I am also quite amazed at what is happening with the National Centre, which was set up after a representative proposal by the Left in the United Kingdom in the previous period, and which I made sure that there was a majority in this Chamber, with the Progress Party as well. It was just to get this development going and the great potential it is also for developing industries and jobs in this important area. Norway may even export new, important technologies that all countries need because they need to replace their grid. What, then, is the reason why the government does not show any greater interest in this center and to ensure that it actually gets a force that allows it to contribute quickly to this development?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e440	Firstly, it is a little strange that SV is both concerned about a higher fee and suggests getting a higher fee. Second, it's like this center, which it's right to talk about, we've given way to. The size has allowed 20 million. kr to establish it, both in 2017 and 2018. The state has a considerable responsibility for the financing of that centre, and it has the state's revenue. It has not been an undertaking, as far as I have been given, from Stortinget, that the State should contribute resources to the Centre. The requirement is that one should join in and establish it. The time the resources were given to NMBU. Now the centre is established as a limited liability company. The NMBU has some limitations on how to get the funds. But this center is absolutely something one has wanted to get up. That's why one has allowed money for it. That it should be seen as a low commitment, I thought it was a little hard to understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e449	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e456	First, I would like to make it clear that the committee's recommendation is necessarily promoted by a majority of the committee, as it is composed. Water and sewerage are operated, as we have heard now, necessarily on the principle of self-sufficiency. This also means that major improvements will result in large fees increases, especially in low-centralised municipalities, where there are few that share the costs. In the report mentioned in the case, the fees in Northern Ireland are estimated to increase by over 200 p.m., and we can all imagine what it will do with housing, development and recruitment in the future. The Central Party also notes that the Council of State of the Left, and the Right and Advance Party, believe that the investment needs of 332 billion. kr must be covered exclusively by self-sufficiency, i.e. sent to the inhabitants and municipalities. The Central Party considers that the State should enter in order to ensure that the necessary improvements are made. We can also look at the legislation itself in a process of producing a sectoral law or an assessment based on the request decision we have passed. As Norsk Water has also pointed out in the past 20 years, there has been a marked change in the pace of regulatory changes in the water and sewerage sectors. An important reason for this is that the EU has developed legislation in an increasing number of areas, with an impact on water and sewerage services, and EU rules are mainly implemented in Norwegian legislation as a result of the EEA Agreement. The sum of a complex regulatory framework and also a high rate of change in Norway makes it difficult for each municipality and individual water and sewerage company to keep up to date on what is true of the framework conditions at all times. As we also heard during the line change, we see examples of the obligation to connect will cost some subscribers enormously. Then it is not easy to start with e.g. exciting nutrition or just moving to what we call "pig-grown strokes". I also record that the Council of State and the Right and the Advance Party are calming down to wait for further investigation of the request decision that came four years ago. The proposers in this matter want more progress, because it is a very important area. It's a natural thing for the Center Party to still look at water as our most important food, which is mentioned here, but it must be allowed to have two thoughts in your head at the same time, both that we need an overarching sector law and to look at water as a food. We want this proposal to make progress in what is precarious, and we do not want, like the Council of State, to wait and get more bureaucrats in place to investigate. So we are asking for support for our proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e473	I take the floor from the Committee on Energy and the Environment, because this is the main environmental task of the municipalities. It's okay to remember that in the 1970s we had the measles action. We had to save Mjösa from agriculture, from laundry detergents that had wrong contents – there were many reasons why Mjösa had to be rescued, and that had to be a big clean-up. Out of that, there were also some innovations. There came a biogas plant, as the first in the world. It has taken Norwegian Cambi on the market, and then they build in the largest cities in the world, under cities instead of far out and with long transmission lines. So let's move it a little bit further. There'll be more and more on the planet -- we'll be approaching 10 billion in a few years -- and everyone's going to have clean water, and the drain is going somewhere. This is a sector that is now repeating the oil and gas sector in investment. It is the third largest sector of investment funds in the world. In Norway, we have a mainly public owned grid. That's good. It works for most people. Then there's some scattered drain. Yes, it costs, but housing in the countryside also has a lower price, so proportionately it is not an expensive investment. But then we also have to look at the possibilities. The innovation in this industry is also part of the discussion that we have here now. In the municipal sector, this sector is the third largest in investment. In Oslo, it's worth mentioning that there's a little bit of control in the media because there's been an exceedance of 5 billion. kr in the reserve water supply to Oslo. It says something about the willingness to invest, in fact, in the municipal sector to provide these services to the population. Then it also says something about how many billions have been invested in that reserve water supply, but also in the Maridals and the plant that is there, which supplies Oslo's population. A job is done around many municipalities in this area, but the lag is large – between 300 and 700 billion. kr, it varies a little from year to year what the reports of the Norwegian Water and Consulting Engineers' Association say. It also means that there are huge funds to be put on the table, and should be on the table, on the part of municipalities. And when Karin Andersen takes up the management technology centre at Ås: The state has given its share, the municipalities have not come up with their share. SV wants us to spend 50 kroner and order the municipalities to pay that fee, but it's also arranged for an innovation fund, where the state has said, "We're spending money on the table." The municipality hasn't made it. This is a municipal problem. Municipalities need to get on the ground more strongly themselves, and not just ask the advisers to put technology on the table from the 1990s. We need to build for 2030 and 2050 and reduce emissions from this sector. And then we have to stop buying electricity for 1 billion. NOK in an industry that should sell electricity for 1 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e490	This proposal for a representative does not relieve the municipalities of their responsibilities; they must take more, but so must the State. Then one must also take responsibility for the local economy which is to ensure that the municipalities have the opportunity to do so. The mill is important to mention, because it is now threatened also, just by poor sewer pipes that leak, and which makes the situation in parts of the mill very serious again. I have to say that I am not particularly impressed by the efforts made by the government, either over the time they have spent in order to get the necessary measures in place, or by the arguments they are making today, where it seems that a fee of 50 kroner is much worse and much larger than getting a surcharge of 30-40 000 kroner on the water and sewerage bill. This is what this is all about – putting in more money, such that subscribers are also involved and contribute to the fragmentation that the state, the municipalities and the subscribers can participate in to develop this area. There are great opportunities here for industries that are large in Norway and that can develop technologies that we can also export to other countries that have even bigger problems than us in this area. I'm a little surprised by the very backward attitude that both the Council of State and the majority here have on this serious problem, which is about our water and that the drain is secured, which is absolutely fundamental. But I'm also surprised by the price explosion that we see coming in front of us; it's clearly believed that it's okay for subscribers to handle it, or that the municipalities are now going to deal with expenses of hundreds of billion dollars in budgets that are already too tight. And then finally this with a national emergency water equipment system: I don't think the government has responded particularly well, and no one else either. The point here is to put in place a system if there was to be a major disaster where the water supply in several municipalities has been shut down; the example of Ashkoy is one municipality, and it was difficult enough there, searing with good regional cooperation. This will be the same as when municipalities are supported by civil defence in the event of major events that go beyond their own crisis management capacity. So the solution is within an existing structure and responsibility position, but we have to have a system for this that makes us know what to do on the day of such a situation. This is about preparedness for the situations that we unfortunately see may arise. They're not sure, but we have to be ready, because we can't be out of water for a lot of hours anywhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e501	To Karin Andersen's last post, and especially the last part of it: I must get it corrected. A national water guard has been established and entered into force e.g. following the challenges in Ashøy, so this is where the state follows up. It was established under today’s government for the first time it was put in place, after experience of Norway’s having had some — call it major events. The Blackdict in Bergen is an example of this, and there have been disproportionately many such events in Norway. Whatever it's caused, it's come into place. That will be there. Here again, there is an example of the state taking responsibility. Another area for which the country should take a little more responsibility is the educational capacity, for some of the representatives in the hall can check with the higher education institution in their counties: is there anyone training engineers for the water and sewerage sector in the county? The answer is that there are not so many engineering training courses that do it anymore. That's one example. I believe that it is more important that the state assumes responsibility for being a contributor to the breadth of competence, such as preparedness and educational capacity, and that the state ensures that we get the skills we need for this sector – that is important. But that the state should contribute and contribute billions, as the Senterpartiet and SV want, I see neither the purpose nor the purpose of. The house owners are satisfied when they have good drinking water in the tap, and are willing to pay for it. I got a question from Eidsiva asking if I would invest NOK 10 000 to get fiber to the house wall; I turned it down. It says something about that we are willing to use quite a lot on other types of infrastructure into the house wall, and I think there are a lot of municipalities that have something to get to follow better in the hour and don't let it go to the aftermath. Ashøy is one of the examples of it, and unfortunately there are many municipalities that have turned off the light and locked the door to the water and drain seat in their municipality. It's not future, and then it's not forward, and it's no wonder that there's going to be a lag of a few hundred billion in sum then.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e512	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e517	I do not know why the representative, Mr Kjeseth, would misunderstand what is being said and proposed, but this is not about the State contributing billions. It is about the fact that the State should perhaps contribute something more to a research centre, which they should be interested in, saying yes to, for example. to add a fee of 50 kroner that can go into a research fund, and that you might have to contribute something in some municipalities that have special problems, in order to get this done. So this whole package is about getting technology development up and spending down so that we get this done, so I'm a little surprised at the argument that's being promoted. In the case of emergency water, at least there is also a wish from Norwegian Water, which has knowledge and competence in this area. They believe that there is a need for changes such that we have a national preparedness for water in times of crisis when it comes to major national disasters; there are no systems rigged for today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e522	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e539	We're going to continue in the same segment. It's about preparedness and water, but this time it's about what happens after the disaster is over. Let me start by paying attention to an incursion in the setting. The committee writes during its examination that we have not received written input into the matter. That is not true, for the Trade Union has delivered a hearing on the matter which is also distributed to the members of the Committee and has been part of the proceedings. It is an overall committee that supports the setting up and the essence of this matter. The case is based on a representative proposal for a specific municipality, and it concerns the issue of non-discrimination and how to deal with cases, but it also affects who is responsible for extinguishing water. The majority of the Committee emphasises that preparedness is the responsibility of municipalities and therefore has an independent decision-making authority. As we are all familiar with, the topography and demography in this country are such that it is difficult to establish exhaustive detailed rules on state levels that fit everywhere. That is why this is a good example of a case in which municipal autonomy is to crumble. The representative's proposal addresses something about how the municipalities manage the authority they have. For this reason, a joint committee has come to the conclusion that the government has been asked to clarify, i.e. to establish clear conditions in the legislation under which municipalities may derogate from pre-accepted solutions, in order to ensure better and equal treatment around them, which is predictable also for those affected by it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e550	First, I would like to thank the case leader and the Committee for a good cooperation on this matter and also the representatives for raising an important issue. It is the responsibility of the municipalities to ensure that defence solutions for sluice water are established before buildings are brought up or before they are put into service. In our long-distance country with wide variations in both topography and composition, there is not one solution that will cover all the different needs. In order to find optimal solutions, it should be possible to base it on specific assessments on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the current situation in each municipality. It is therefore necessary to heighten the regulatory framework in order to make use of local knowledge and competences within the national frameworks. It is important, then, that clear legislation helps you to avoid misunderstandings and avoid unnecessary use of resources when it comes to both time and money. The specific assessments and decisions regarding the dimensioning of sluice water should be taken locally in the first row. There is also, as the Council of State refers to, the need to recognise that there may be a case where consideration indicates that the municipality deviates from pre-accepted solutions to water requirements. However, it must also be possible to lay down basic requirements when the municipality deviates from these pre-accepted solutions on the basis of its own assessments. Precautionary care and non-discrimination in the development and development of cities are important. Therefore, it is gratifying that there is a joint committee that supports the request in this case that the government set out clear conditions in the legislation in which the municipalities may derogate from these pre-accepted solutions in the regulation, TEK17.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e561	When I promoted this proposal in Stortinget, I saw on the reactions of those present that perhaps you did not fully understand what this issue was about. The first response from the Council of State to the Committee also suggested that it was not entirely possible to consider how problematic this is with the imposition of extinguishing water in many municipalities. Especially have I experienced that there are many examples of this in Asker and Bærum, and especially in Asker. As a result, private dwelling builders who are going to build an exclusive dwelling for themselves and their families have been ordered to establish fire chambers and miscellaneous equipment from the municipality, which has resulted in an extra cost of several hundred thousand kroner. To the extent that these installations are to be transferred back to the municipality, it is a question of obtaining a settlement that is only marginal in relation to the costs incurred. It is referred to local self-government. Local self-government is important, but here we also have legislation, and the challenge is how municipalities have dealt with this legislation. Once again, I would say, at least if we take the ombudsman role seriously, that we must respect local self-government, but we must take care of the citizens' interests. That is why I supported this proposal, because there were many examples in my municipality of origin, Bærum, and also in the neighbouring municipality of Asker. I am very pleased that it is a unanimous committee that now specifies that clear rules should be established on the circumstances in which municipalities may deviate from the pre-accepted solutions. For the challenge in the municipalities I mentioned, Asker and Bærum, and also elsewhere, there are solutions in place to meet these requirements for extinguishing water, but the municipality still requires private residential builders to establish their own solutions that come at the top of the municipality already has. Of course, I am satisfied with a unanimous vote. The progress party is very pleased with that. This takes care of the people's interests, especially in Asker and Bærum. So I would like to add that in this article I have mentioned Asker and Bærum many times. These include: because our local, Budstikka, in the election campaign will assess my efforts at Stortinget, among others. based on how many times I have mentioned Asker and Bærum from this pulpit. So this issue of extinguishing water is important for Asker and Bærum, but it's also to satisfy Budstikka's demands to mention Asker and Bærum enough times.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e576	I think that the undersigned is not an honest reference in Budstikka, but congratulations to the representative Limi! As has already been well explained, the opinion is presented by an overall committee. However, this approach is not in line with the Ministry’s assessment, but the Centre supports the proposalers’ wish to clarify what requirements are expected for the municipalities in the case of extinguishing water. The background to the Committee's desire for clear conditions is examples that we have now heard from municipalities that practise more stringent requirements than those resulting from both TEK17 and the Fire Prevention Regulation. Of course, the centre party is a supporter of the fact that municipalities themselves provide leadership for their own activities, but where central legislation exists, practice should be somewhat similar around the country. We trust that the requirements of the construction regulations, i.e. TEK17, and fire prevention regulations, will ensure the safety of the inhabitants. It is therefore considered unreasonable when individual municipalities practise other and more stringent requirements, and in particular when it leads to an additional cost for builders. We therefore support the proposal to ask the government to establish clear conditions in the legislation for municipalities to derogate from the pre-accepted benefits in those regulations. Although there are minimum requirements, there should be predictability as to the extent to which other and more expensive requirements can be expected to be imposed on the population. We think that this should be met without being very detailed, for which the Council of State expresses concern. At the same time, I would like to commend the Council of State for his inclusion of municipal self-determination in his reply to the Committee. The Councils of State respond, inter alia, to:\t\t You can change the ‘If clear conditions are to be laid down for this type of case in the legislation, this could lead to rules that could be difficult to understand and comply with, as there are different situations in the different municipalities. It is the municipalities themselves that are best able to assess the need for, and the dimensioning of, extinguishing water and extinguishing water capacity.» And on the other hand, ‘A clear-cut rule will need to be very detailed to be adapted to all municipalities in Norway. This could impose unnecessary and unfortunate restrictions on municipal self-determination.’ Now, well, this is the one thing where the Center Party and I want less self-determination than the Right Council. I just wish that this trust in municipal local democracy had made itself stronger in other matters as well, things that may not be as important as extinguishing water. As examples, I would like to mention that I would have liked to have listened to local authorities and citizens when it comes to the decommissioning and centralisation of e.g. Nav office, police, county office, passport issue, property rights and land change rights, tax offices and constitutions, as well as mergers of municipalities and county municipalities. I just mention it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e599	I'm glad I'm assigned 15 minutes, for the previous representative now opened the dance to talk about completely different things from what the proposal is about. But I'm gonna save the committee for that. The representative Limi spoke about the disproportionate costs of setting up sufficient extinguishing water. I live in a little street stub, where there were eight houses, and two of them have burned down to the ground. Then I think that the availability of extinguishing water is quite important. The background to this proposal, which we must also bring with us, is that it is important that there is extinguishing water available, whether it is in the form of a tanker or in other ways. The government regulates what we have to, but no more. The rules we're going to have need to be at the right level, so that we can avoid uncertainty and unnecessary use of time and costs. Both rules and guidance should be clear, so that there is no doubt about rights and obligations. At the same time, there must be room for action on adaptation and good solutions. Firewater requirements include more legislation, and this may create uncertainty as to which rules apply to whom and what is the best solution in each case. The pre-accepted performances in the TEK17 guidance section 11-117 indicate how the project can meet the requirement of facilitating a fire to be easily controlled. Thus, the pre-accepted benefits do not regulate the obligations of local authorities. If there are uncertainties about the role of the municipality in facilitating decommissioning, there are probably other instruments than the guidance on the construction regulations we need to look at. In a construction case, the responsible designer must provide information on the supply of extinguishing water and design solutions on this basis in the individual project. In other words, it is necessary to examine the preparedness of the municipality so that, for example: does not generate extinguishing water from a tanker, if such a standby does not exist. It's not like there's one solution that's always right. The availability of surface water, construction patterns and equipment available to the fire service will vary and will affect what is the correct solution. In some cases it may be sufficient for the local fire service to dispose of an appropriate tanker. In other cases, there is a need for access to extinguishing water supply with pipes. It is the municipality and the local fire service that are closest to deciding whether the use of a tanker is a real alternative in each case. A rule with clear and absolute conditions covering all situations will have to be very detailed to be adapted to all the municipalities in this country. This could impose unnecessary and unfortunate restrictions on municipal self-determination. I have not mentioned Asker and Bærum, but I would say to the representative Limi that he had 15 minutes of speaking time, so there was plenty of room to mention Asker and Bærum many more times than the representative actually ended up doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e618	Then the president may admit that she was born in Bærum – if there is a need for it to be mentioned again. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e637	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e644	I can tell you that I have born a child in the hospital in Bærum, as there was no room in Oslo. But we're not going to talk about that right now. In this matter, we are dealing with two motions for a resolution, one from the Group of the European People's Party and one from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. We are well aware that the housing market is not functioning well, either in press areas or in all district municipalities. Most recently today, NBBL launched figures that show that there are more tenants than owners than just ten years ago. We can't have it like that. Have we come to the point that it should be more profitable to invest in housing than to work? An acquaintance summed up the fact that he had earned more per hour of sleep in an apartment on Grünerløkka than what he earned per hour at work. There are more housing debates in the Chamber today and tomorrow. We in the Labour Party have promoted an offensive new housing policy, with 30 concrete proposals, in the work on an alternative budget for this year. There we promoted proposals to strengthen the local economy, which could give municipalities bigger muscles to realize owner-occupied housing for more people and to try out different projects that could give new roads into the housing market. Today, together with the Centre Party and SV, we are promoting proposals in the recommendation to strengthen the rental-to-owner scheme. We have to do this if we are to bring down the inequalities that are now escalating in the housing market. In winter, we proposed a number of measures to give new roads into the housing market and also to build more dwellings. We wanted to strengthen the Husbank's lending framework, increase housing support, set up probationary schemes to help people enter the housing market and prioritise money to develop rental-to-owner methodology. We also proposed to introduce a State interest compensation scheme for municipal land purchases of 20 million. kr. In particular, we have proposed twice in Stortinget to investigate changes to the Planning and Building Act so that municipalities can have the opportunity to determine the form of accommodation in the housing projects. We also propose to re-establish the project Housing in the districts. That proposal is based on a supervisory system called housing in the districts, which this government concluded shortly after it became a government. The scheme helped to build new knowledge of the housing market in the districts, and there is knowledge used locally by municipalities now to develop the housing market in the municipalities. There is a need for more knowledge of how to address housing market challenges in rural areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e661	This proposal for a representative is about fair housing policies in rural and urban areas. In order for people to be allowed to choose to live, live and work throughout the country, it is important that there is good access to own housing. There's cross-political agreement that it's right to bypass the ownership line that we have in Norway, that it's still going to be strong. In Norway as many as eight out of ten owned their own dwelling. It gives us financial security, and it gives us greater stability. In some districts, on the other hand, it has proved to be a problem that construction costs exceed the market value. Such a situation leads to an increase in risk, so that banks refuse to lend. It is important to ensure funding opportunities for housing throughout the country. This is precisely why the House Bank already has a tool to counteract this effect. They also have the possibility of taking district policy into account. This proposal refers to NOU 2020: 15, Norway, where the selection points out that the Husbanken has assets, but that they have been used too little in the district municipalities. When the Council of State has now given the House Bank the task of strengthening the information work, this is important. There is a great added value in taking advantage of the regional policy dimension in the long-term. At the same time, there is reason to recall that loans from the Husbank will complement the market, not compete with private banks. The proposers want top finance, and I would like to remind you that start-up loans are, in fact, an already established top finance scheme, i.e. a scheme which has been added to other debt financing. It is possible to combine start-up loans with ordinary loans in the House Bank, for construction or repair, and it may also be combined with loans in other banks. It is also possible for the municipality to relax the requirements in cases where there is a refusal of start-up loans that prevents the possibility of maintaining a working relationship or that it prevents the development of local business. Suggestion providers want to be allowed to run on an extended scale. Then I would like to remind you that there are several different models of rent-to-ownership, and that it is important to make sure that we choose one that is optimally furnished for the benefit of consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e674	In recent weeks, there have been a number of headlines in the media about the lack of housing in districts. A young couple at Værøy have told me how they had to scrape their plans to build a new house because they did not get to borrow what they needed in the bank in addition to equity. Banks may provide loans based on the market value of the house once it has been completed. The problem is that the construction costs in districts are much higher than the actual market value. As soon as you put the key in the door of a newly built house in the countryside, the market value drops dramatically compared to what it has cost to build. In addition, we know that the cost of goods in the districts and especially in the north is much higher than in more central parts of the country. These challenges are well described by the already mentioned district demographics committee, such as: says: ‘Access to suitable and varied dwellings is important for people’s establishment and housing in a place.’ The same sample also states that the Husbank must have a clear regional policy task of contributing to the availability of suitable housing, especially for young and older people. The centre party has proposed a new housing loan scheme in the Husbanken to cover the difference that ordinary banks cannot or will not take. In the proposal, we describe a scheme that top-finances loans for housing in areas where the estimated market value is lower than the construction costs. We also ask the government to develop guidelines on the costs to be included in this specific scheme. We record that the Right response has been so far that there are already schemes in the House Bank that can be used. Reference is made to initial loans, but unfortunately that is not enough. The bank's own figures show that only 3 pst. of their basic loans are used in district municipalities, which have 14 pst. by the population. At the same time, we know that the lack of access to housing in the districts significantly hampers the recruitment of labour. Twenty-five pst. of the enterprises here discloses that there is an important reason for their recruitment challenges. This shows that housing shortages affect both housing and nutrition growth in a very unfortunate way. In cities, the challenge is often the opposite, which was also addressed by the rapporteur. There is a market value so high that it is almost impossible for young buyers to get owner-occupied housing. Many housing teams and developers offer a rental-to-owner model, as also the representative from the Right mentioned, where, after a given period of time, the tenant is offered to buy the dwelling. The centre party believes this is a good arrangement, but wants the model to be offered to a much greater extent in press areas. It will help young people in the start-up phase enter the housing market, and it can strengthen their equity for later home purchases. In our proposal, therefore, we ask the government to ensure that a rental-to-owner scheme is extended to an extent. Finally, the Central Party hopes that a majority in the UK will support these proposals, as it will stimulate increased housing construction in the districts and help young people enter the housing market in the cities. It will give you more possibilities to get your own roof over your head. This is about political will for priority. I'll bring this up with the proposal of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e696	The representative, Kari Anne Bøkestad Andreassen, has addressed the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e701	SV fully agrees with the issues raised in this representative proposal from the Centre Party. The housing market has become a difference machine. In cities and press areas, a lot of people are now exploding or incurring a debt they do not have the opportunity to serve, because the costs are so high. In the districts, where there is little pressure, one can risk being left with a larger loan than the one the dwelling is worth after it is newly built. So here we need stronger arrangements to see how this is going to be solved, and they have to get through the House Bank. The reason why we do not support the proposal of the Central Party in this matter is that they believe that these arrangements should be based on lower interest rates. It is a little difficult to see how that tool can work when interest rates are at as low a level as they are today. So that's not enough. I hear the government pointing to the start-up loan, but the start-up loan is very limited in this area and mainly prioritised to only the most disadvantaged. That is good and correct, but a new start-up loan scheme is needed for newly established people who do not have the «parent bank» in order to get the top loan in the House Bank that they need to establish, whether it is here or there in the country. For many to establish outside the central strata, this will be necessary and important. In the most stressed areas, prices are so high that almost no one with normal wages can afford to buy in anymore. We're pointing to the rent-to-claim system. It has been reduced in recent years. The government says it's the municipal sector that's asking for less, and it might be right. But then you have to look at the arrangement of that system, because it is absolutely a good system, which allows you to gradually buy into a dwelling with less initial capital. It may also be important in the district municipalities. Many municipalities offer free plots if they have plots. This means that municipalities must not sell property away, but offer plots. There's a possibility the municipalities have. The second is that municipalities also need to build housing for older people who need to move into more suitable housing. There are also some houses that may be relevant for those who want to move. There is both a need to relieve those who want to build new ones in the districts, and the need for more measures, to ensure that we get the housing people want – both in the countryside and in the city.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e716	The dwelling is one of the most important things we have. Therefore, the government is concerned that the housing market should be well-functioning and efficient across the country. In some parts of the country there is pressure on the housing market with a rise in housing prices in recent years that gives cause for concern. In particular, this applies to Oslo, where, under the Red-Green Town Council, an average of five years is required to produce a regulatory plan. It is too small to be built; demand is higher than supply. In other parts of the country, the picture is different. Some municipalities have small, unsafe or stagnating housing markets. These are largely district municipalities with low housing prices and low price growth. Low district housing provides little renewal of the existing housing stock. Access to suitable housing may be essential for people to establish themselves or to become residents in a place. A small and one-sided housing offer may hinder the recruitment of labour in the districts. I agree with the proposers that the Husbank has an important role to play in contributing to the well-functioning housing markets throughout the country. One of the objectives of the Husbank loan schemes is to support housing in rural areas. The house bank can ease the demand for lending in areas where private banks do not finance small amounts of new construction. This is because market prices of used dwellings in districts are often lower than construction costs. Municipalities may also derogate from the requirement that beneficiaries of start-up loans must have long-term financing problems if the housing situation prevents the development of local business. I have asked the House Bank to ensure that access to take regional policy considerations into account in the lending process becomes better known. I have also asked the House Bank to acquire more knowledge about how the arrangements are implemented. Private banks finance new housing in the districts to varying degrees. It is important that loans from the House Bank take place in an interaction with private banks. Loans from the Husbank must complement the market, not compete with private banks. The municipalities have a specific responsibility for housing social measures, but they are also a housing policy actor in the wider sense. Municipalities must be able to see the relationship between housing social measures and the regular provision of housing. It will contribute to a more flexible and varied housing offer in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e733	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e738	The housing market is a plug in the system. I experience that the Council of State takes it inwards in its article, but then there was action and willingness to do something. For example, newspaper Valdres wrote on 14 May that the attractiveness of Valdres is falling due to lack of housing. Retiring ‘Minister of Inception’ Hallgrim Rogn said that ‘movement is actually less about jobs than housing right now’. Kulant, with Managing Director Saglien, is a newly established company that has experienced 150 pst. growth, but struggling with housing for its employees and possible new ones for the company. What does the Council of State say about these companies that will now grow, will use the opportunities in the market and provide services that people will have, but cannot recruit the skills they need, because they lack housing?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e745	Unfortunately, this is a problem in many places, and I think it is important to have dialogue between the municipality and the companies to facilitate housing. Then it is important that the municipality knows and applies the possibilities of the Husbank, and the scheme that is there to finance dwellings in areas of the country where the price of building dwellings is higher than the market value when the dwelling is finished. We have tools in place, they have to be put into service, and the municipalities have a significant responsibility to ensure that enough plots are developed for housing in their areas. And then we know that there's a part that's moving from its home, but it keeps the dwelling there as a leisure home. These are many municipalities that have pointed to as a challenge, because it binds up dwellings that could otherwise have been used for people who want to be residents. So the regulation plan in the municipalities has a lot to say about how housing development is going to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e751	I can do a few more examples. The Western Slide municipality has also tried to give away residential space. The municipality of Valdres has definitely regulated, built up roads and stood on to offer attractive plots with magnificent views of Jotunheimen and what it should be that should be attractive and tempting for people who want to establish themselves. And as I said, the labour market is there, the jobs are there, but people may not get loans from the bank to finance -- maybe there's a bigger demand for equity than there are elsewhere in the country. Therefore, I wonder whether the housing market should be for those who have wealth or equity and opportunities, or whether you will actually facilitate those who want to establish themselves and take a job, whether you are young or older. That's why I don't feel that we can refer to today's arrangements, because they obviously don't work. What kind of new initiatives and schemes will the Council of State come up with to ensure that the housing market is not a clog in the system?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e756	I am very happy to hear the representative describe a labour market that under this government flourishes in District Norway. It's not often we hear it from the representative's party, but it's good to have it confirmed today, although there's a slightly different context than it's usually said in. Then I fully agree that we need to facilitate the construction of enough dwellings, and that it is attractive for more people to build new homes in the districts as well. This is particularly important in areas where industry is in demand of labour. As I said, I believe that the arrangements that the House Bank has need to become better known. The government will present three new district policy strategies in a short time, and there we will address these issues in more detail – because it is important. We feel that many municipalities – rightly – are concerned about this. We want to facilitate the best we can on the part of the government, and then the interaction between municipalities, housing buyers and businesses is incredibly important in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e765	After the Norman Committee gave up my position, I was at a seminar with Victor Norman. He started something like this: the first thing you have to think about if you're going to live in a district municipality is that you're going to live there all your life, that you're going to work in that labour market, and that you have to be extra careful about finding a bitch, because you have to be sure you're going to be married all your life. Of course, he said wife and not bitch. It's a bit of the challenge and the risk involved. He was very clear that we have to do something about risk relief for those who want to establish themselves and build houses in these areas if we are to get the youth to move back. Although there's a disembarkation in a municipality, there won't be any vacant houses, for the houses that stand there, the descendants use for recreational housing, and it costs a fifth of a cabin. Does the Council not see that we must actually have some effective means when today's policy does not work, if we share the objective of the youth moving back to the districts and we need a balanced development across the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e774	I fully agree that we must have effective instruments, and we must have more than just housing policies, although housing policies are of course also important. Therefore, the government is putting forward three new district policies before the summer, where we go through the breadth, you might say, in the means that will be necessary to make the community around attractive to young people especially, both those who want to stay, those who want to move back, and also new ones who want to move there. I think it's quite possible to do that, but it doesn't require one instrument or two instruments. It requires that we think comprehensively and broadly about these challenges, and that the municipalities, businesses, volunteering and the national level work together to trigger the amazing potential we have in the districts. We want a society where living, living and working in the districts is seen as something positive, that we can attract more people to do it. I think we have to contribute to the best we can from national authorities, but it is not only housing policy that is important then – but also housing policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e784	I record that the Council of State says he doesn't just have to think about one instrument. But the problem is that, despite a major challenge that has persisted over time, the Council of State is not willing to assess a single new instrument and just say that what you have today is good enough. For example: in several municipalities in North Norway is under 1 pst. of the dwellings built after the year 2000. I was on Værøy myself last year – there is just about 2.8 pst. of dwellings built after the year 2000 — and visited a fish processing company, which highlighted a major challenge in attracting labour and that the housing situation is the major challenge. They themselves try to facilitate, but lack stronger instruments from the state. In view of the serious situation that one sees, why is the government not willing to consider new measures, as the Central Party proposes in this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e791	The centre party proposes two things in this case. One is that the House Bank should offer loans also in areas in the country where construction is not profitable. The House Bank can already do that, and I have informed the House Bank that this possibility needs to be better known. Here, the Center Party enters open doors. The second proposal is that we should bet on rent-to-own. Yes, we do. We've already, a long time ago, set up an experience network with the home developers to look at how we can scale up that system, so that it gets a real meaning for young people who want to enter the housing market. I do not fully understand the criticism of the representative. He has made two proposals, both of which are implemented by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e800	The problem is that loans to the districts are not given enough to secure housing there. If you look at the report that, for example, Societal Economic Analysis came along, it shows that it is approx. two thirds of the enterprises in the districts have difficulty recruiting labour. A quarter of enterprises say housing shortages are a labour challenge. So the situation that the Council of State describes is not right, the challenge is there today. We are proposing a concrete scheme to strengthen the Husbank's instruments for facilitating housing in the districts. Why do the government parties vote it down if the Council of State considers this to be entirely in line with government policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e805	The centre party does not propose a new system, the centre party proposes a system that already exists. And then the Central Party criticizes the government not to follow up a proposal that's really about something we're already doing. I fully agree that that system must become better known. The municipalities have a significant responsibility. Fortunately, the representative and I share a trust in the municipalities, trust that they can actually navigate around the state system and use these arrangements. We're going to help make the scheme better known, and the municipalities actually have to contribute to the implementation of the schemes to a greater extent than today. Then we agree that it takes more than just housing policy to solve the challenges in District Norway, but housing policy is also important.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e810	Everyone agrees that we should use the rent-to-owner scheme more, and the Council of State also says that there is a need to look at it. Developments have been such in recent years that the appropriations given have been sent back to some extent to the state because they have not been used. It's very sad at least, because we believe this is an important scheme. Then I want to be a little more concrete, and not only will I hear that a strategy will be put in place for you and your daughter: what is the Council of State working to make provision for the grants that municipalities can apply for in terms of rent-to-own projects, more attractive also for the municipal sector, so that more people will put it into practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e817	If rental-to-owners are to become a real alternative that really affects the ability of young people to enter the housing market – they do not have to be young either, for that matter – more than state schemes are required through the Husbank. Then we also require that we bring with us private home developers, that they also build rental-to-own homes on a large scale, so that it becomes a real meaning. We will continue to support rental-to-owner initiatives through state support schemes, but we must therefore bring with us the major developers. And now we see that there's an enormous amount going on in this area. What we are doing now is to identify some regulatory obstacles that stand in the way of this type of project, that you can do this on a large scale – housing that is organised differently, housing model, common model. What is this all about exactly that kind of concept? We want to clear obstacles to the road and help make it much more possible to build them among the private, so that it gets a real meaning.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e822	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e830	The centre party is concerned that it will be possible to live, work and live a good life throughout Norway. If we're going to make it, you have to make sure that there's a good supply of different jobs. One must provide good services near people. One must take care to settle with the politically guided centralisation of Norway as the current government and the support party of the Progress Party. And then we have to provide a well-functioning housing market in the countryside and city – whether it's in Berlevåg or in Bærum, in Aremark or Asker. On April 16 this year, NRK Arne Mathisen from the fish processing plant Lofoten Viking on Værøy, which I also visited last year. And to the NRK, Mathisen says, ‘You will not be able to pick up workers without housing available. Nearly three out of four employees of us are not from Værøy in the first place, so it is clear that there is a major challenge we have to solve." The company itself is trying to provide different solutions to provide people with housing. But this is a major challenge in many municipalities in Norway. On Værøy is approx. 2.8 pst. of the dwellings built after 2000, in Vardø there is 0,9 pst., in Gamvik 1 pst. and in Loppa 1.4 p.m., while in my neighbouring municipality, Ullensaker, is approx. 50 pst. of the dwellings built after the year 2000. It is clear that we need to provide more housing and to facilitate more varied housing to meet the need, not least for people who want to live in a municipality, and for companies that need labour to get the labour they need. After all, it is a negative spiral for a municipality that already has challenges in maintaining housing, jobs and services, when housing is reduced and in some cases barely exist because the expected market value of the dwelling is lower than the construction cost. Then, of course, the real equity requirement that remains in such situations is important, but also the fact that one remains with a dwelling for which one is to sell at a later date, if any, at a lower value than one for which it is built. I must say I am surprised that the majority is not willing to support our proposal. The Council of State believes that it is opening doors, while the majority in their comments say that they are to assess the cost-benefit of our proposal, and then they argue against our proposal in the comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e854	Are there only people who pusher 50, with wealth, who should have the opportunity to build a dwelling? Is it such that the possibility of building an exclusive dwelling is reserved for areas with growth and a large market for the movement of dwellings? I'm asking rhetorical questions to put on top of the situation we're in. People all over the country are not allowed into the housing market. A large proportion of the population owning their own housing has been part of the success in Norway. It's a good and a safe life for people, the predictability of everyday life and a financial security if anything else would intersect. Now we are there that people who want to move and establish themselves in the districts around the country do not get the opportunity to do so. Banks may not be willing to lend. You might not have more than 15 pst. equity, and it may not hold whether the market value of the dwelling is lower after it is built than the construction cost. If you're going to build in the countryside, you have to build to live out life. If we assume, as both the district industry and the demographic committee do, that centrality classes 4, 5 and 6 are districts, it constitutes 79 pst. by the municipalities of the country and 30 pst. by the population of the country – with 1.6 million people. So this applies to a lot of people. The center party will take care of this. Historically, we know that after the war, there was a huge demand for housing. The price caps were then set and strong incentives were given for housing construction. Today, the Centre Party is proposing two concrete measures and is implementing one of them. Extending the rent-to-owner scheme to an extent is a good start. Within that extension, it must be borne in mind that also here is part of the premise that there is a price increase and a market for the movement of the dwelling. That is, rent-to-self cannot be done in many municipalities unless you change the premise here. I also see that the concern about price rise is mentioned in the adjustment. The second proposal of the Centre Party for a new housing loan scheme in Husbanken to finance loans for housing construction in areas where the estimated market value is lower than the construction cost would address the problem of distance between the cost of building and the final value in the market. In addition, we have recently heard about a price increase of 40 pst. for individual construction products. This makes it even harder to realize the housing dream through new buildings. Governments are extremely concerned with current arrangements in the Husbanken. I would recommend to the Council of State to check terms and rates, because there must be a grip here if they are to meet the group we are concerned about through the proposal for a representative. This is also the case for young and elderly people who want to establish themselves in Building Norway and municipalities who want to recruit new residents. This is a real problem, and the problem requires action.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e871	It is important to ensure that the priority task of the House Bank is housing-social work and to increase the number of dwellings that are environmentally friendly and have a universal design. In addition, the Husbank contributes by initiating research and distribution in the field concerned. For many districts, it is precisely the municipality that is the most important player in developing the housing market. Municipalities that take an active role, as developers plan, which provide financial incentives and communicate well with markets, can strengthen and influence the players in the local housing market. This creates good, living communities. Examples show that many find good solutions through such cooperation, but it also appears that today municipalities have varying levels of knowledge and competence on urban development and their development needs. In times of conversion and change, it must be recognised that making the housing effort right can be a requirement. But precisely so, it is important to underline the value of research and cooperation between the different actors. In order for the municipalities to succeed in achieving the objectives of the housing social work, the Husbank must be relevant and add added value to the municipalities and be a professional support player for the municipalities. Accordingly, the funds to the House Bank should be reserved for those with low income as far as possible. Swälweggarder democracy should be a cornerstone of Norwegian society. Population growth and relocation without adequate housing is the main cause of rising prices. In the right, we propose several measures in our programme to facilitate increased housing construction and to make it easier for first-time buyers. I would particularly like to simplify and modernise, so that we can make it cheaper and better to get our own housing. In addition, I would like to mention the housing regulations, which we think should be adjusted or readjusted, so that there is greater emphasis on behaviour than on the capital requirement.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e886	As we hear in the debate, the Council of State and the Government parties are well pleased with today's arrangements in terms of both rent-to-ownership and top-financing for housing in the districts, although the figures, the statistics it refers to, do not say the same. As mentioned earlier, 3 pst goes. of the basic loans granted by the Husbank to low-central-class municipalities. It is good that the Council of State now informs us that he has informed the House Bank that existing arrangements need to be better known. It may be unfortunate that it happened at the very last minute of the current period when these statistics have been so over time, and perhaps at random that it is now done when this proposal from the Central Party is launched. I just want to make it clear that the Central Party is still behind the proposal to have a specific own arrangement earmarked this gap that occurs in the districts. What is important for me to clarify is that in this system we will not do as the House Bank does today, namely to set specific requirements in addition to what is in the construction regulations, TEK17. Today, it is said that to cover the gap between construction costs and market value, specific requirements for living standards and the rural environment must be met. It's once again costing the entire construction process, so that the winnings go up in the spin. I am pleased that the Center Party is behind a separate arrangement within the House Bank.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e895	This debate shows that many people do not understand the challenges of district municipalities. It is not that when someone moves to a municipal home for the elderly, a dwelling is released. Those dwellings are usually taken over by descendants, who use them as recreational dwellings. It's not that there's just challenges to not getting a loan, it's also the big risk when they get a loan, if there's to be a loan at an extra high price. We have to do something that stimulates young people to actually build in District Norway, because there are no vacant dwellings. In any case, it is not suitable for vacant dwellings according to today's standard. I am very impressed when I hear the representative Eidsheim say that the Husbank has a housing social purpose, and that we have to make sure that it is those with low income who are being cared for by the House Bank. At the same time, the Council of State says that the Senterpartiet kicks in open doors because the Husbank meets the challenge of housing in the districts through the legislation we have today. Then there is something that is not at stake, and I hope the Council of State can clarify what loan arrangements in the House Bank are that contribute to housing in district municipalities today, and whether those arrangements may need to be extended if we are to make this work. The feedback from the municipalities is that this is not working, and the feedback from the business community is that this is a huge problem in acquiring skills. The council said something like there's not one way to get people to live in the district. I fully agree with that. And as he said, there must be cooperation between the state, the municipality and the business community. The municipalities and the business community are pushing to get this system, it's the state that's putting down the heels and brakes. We just have to solve this. Several have been involved in the start-up loan scheme. It is not the case that the Council of State is trying to produce it, that it can freely use the municipalities to close the gap between the house fare and the acquisition value. After changing the requirement of the start-up loan scheme, there is a clear requirement that the start-up loan scheme should be subject to permanent difficulties. What we're talking about isn't permanently difficult. What we're talking about now is young people or others who want to move back to their own municipality, but where there's a million in the difference between the market value of the dwelling and what it costs to acquire the dwelling. That means they're running a huge risk, and they have to have one million extra in equity to get a loan to that home. I had hoped, when the government has now dropped several samples to look at district policy, that they were also willing to participate in some of the ways to reverse centralisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e910	SV fully agrees that new instruments are needed, but we may not think that there are loans and more loans. We now have to look at what we have to do to get balanced and good housing across the country. Now the market has taken over everything, and then we get these outcomes. There are too expensive homes in the press areas, this is seen as an investment. On the outskirts, in the districts, there is no investment. Then it'll be a loss, and then it'll be nothing. That means that we are developing very big distortions, which this representative proposal addresses. I think this comes from a very different perspective – at least between the bourgeois parties and SV, and I think maybe also the Workers' Party and the Center Party – on what the House Bank should be. The House Bank was basically a community developer who was going to take care of how we were going to develop this society well, so that everyone could have access to a good housing. Now the right-hand side of the House Bank is developing into a purely social bank, just for the most disadvantaged. All will have instruments for the socially disadvantaged – SV proposes better instruments for the socially disadvantaged than the government does – but we believe that the House Bank should also play a greater role in developing a healthy and balanced housing market across the country. This can be done through many different things, and – as SV has suggested before – a national housing plan is needed across the country, where the Husbank has a role to play in providing a fairer housing market. I agree with the Center Party on a lot of what they say, but I disagree very much that we are going to use state funds to build non-standard housing, especially in District Norway. We know that the age composition is very distorted there. There are many more older people, and we probably have inaccessible dwellings that don't meet that standard. What we're missing is housing that allows you to stay at home if you get old, and there'll be a lot of people. It is absolutely necessary to hold that standard and not cut such things in order to save money in the short term. It is very bad when you see that there might be some turnover in these dwellings, and perhaps some older people who live in a detached house outside the center, will buy this home if they want to move again. In that case, the dwellings in that market, to all older people who need a more accessible dwelling, must have the standard of living. Right at that point, I very much disagree with what the Center Party said instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e923	The representative Toril Eidsheim has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e928	Just to make it quite clear: the House Bank has the means to take district policy into account. As has been said several times in this Chamber today, this possibility needs to be better known. The proposalers and several others in the Chamber today have been asked to extend the lease-to-ownership arrangements to an extent. We agree. But it is also important to consider that there are several different models for rent-to-ownership, and that some of them may not be optimally designed for the best interests of the consumer. Therefore, it is important that the models have a device that is targeted and ensures that several people with difficulty can buy a dwelling and take part in the increase in value and the security that can lie in owning their own dwelling. We look forward to the results of the ongoing work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e935	The representative, Mr Greni, asked the government and the government parties to take action to address the housing situation in the districts. Even they have suggested one, and that means already exists. I have to say I'm a little surprised at the suggestion of the pulpit of the representatives of the Central Party. We agree on what the problem is, and we agree that we have to do something about it, and we agree that the House Bank should have a role to play in it. So there's no confusion in this. The general rule in the case of start-up loans is that people who have long-term payment problems should be able to start loans in the districts, especially where there is a need for them for business policy purposes, i.e. there are jobs, but there are no housing for those who work there. The representative, Andersen, draws up the need for a national housing plan, where the House Bank is to play a central role. Let me just say that in parts of the country where there is pressure, the challenge is that there are not enough residential spaces regulated. It'll take too much time. SV has been in the City Council for six years and will soon have to sweep for their own door. So it doesn't help with a national plan by the state for how many dwellings to build in Oslo, unless the city council manages to regulate enough plots for it to be built. The answer from SV is to add more capital through cheap loans to young people from the House Bank. And what happens when no more dwellings are built, but more capital is invested? Well, then, prices go up further, everything else is the same – even stronger housing price growth. We can't just talk about the demand side. We also need to talk about the offer page, and that's whether we're talking about the districts or the press areas. So here's the deal page. These are not simple answers to the complex challenges we have discussed on the basis of today's proposals. I don't think there's going to be one tool. I think there are a lot of them, and not everything is about housing either. But now there are these two proposals we have to deal with today, and there are two proposals that are partly fulfilled, and partly as it is being worked on, and I'm glad that the Stortinge gives its support to the work that the government is already doing in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e946	Governments have said several times today that this is not about one action, it is about very many others. In this proposal for a representative, we are promoting two proposals. One concerns housing in the districts. In a little bit of an hour, we're going to discuss the plan guidelines and the meaning of it. It is another proposal we have made. But now there are several people here today who have been packed because they have talked about something outside the case, so I thought we should wait until we discuss the matter. I think the representative Andersen may have misunderstood my post. Of course, we are not against the construction of dwellings adapted to the elderly in Norwegian municipalities. We're very much in favour of that. We must strengthen those aid schemes. But what I tried to say – if I expressed myself in a way – is that even if you build that kind of housing in the districts, it doesn't necessarily mean that you free a home for young people who want to move back. What's the challenge is that the house they move from, they like to be taken over by heirs who use it as a recreational home, so that it doesn't become a dwelling that comes into the market. So the Centerpartiet absolutely supports the construction of several dwellings with life-cycle standards and several dwellings adapted to the elderly around all Norwegian municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e954	The representative Karin Andersen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e959	Then the Center Party got it sorted out, because it was the representative of Bøkestad Andreassen who said that there was no need for a standard of living. Yes, more construction is needed, but it is not enough as long as it is only the market that regulates. And there are clear plots in this town, but here are also the builders waiting for them to sell all. So here's a lot of money in games, and that means there's no need for housing that's at the centre of this debate. Then I think the Council of State should stop misinforming the SV's policy regarding start-up loans. We have proposed a start-up loan scheme for those who have the ability to pay. There is no cheaper loan than other people get, but is an initial loan for those who do not have the «parent bank» in order to obtain loans from the House Bank to enter the housing market. They don't get a larger loan than they can serve. That's the assumption in the entire SV setup.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e968	The representative, Kari Anne Bøkestad Andreassen, has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e973	It's a little clarification to the representative Andersen from SV. My point is that when the Council of State pointed out that there are already mechanisms for what we like to call top-level financing in district housing, it is not mentioned that some of the criteria in the House Bank to get in there are the extra requirements imposed on living standards and environmental requirements. Both are of course something we support in principle, but we do not believe that there should be a basis for construction in these areas – that it should exclude alternative solutions, because we see the issues that have been raised, in Værøy and otherwise. There shall be no absolute requirement for all dwellings to be covered by such a scheme to have the additional standards. The arrangements already in place in the Husbank, which go on a life-cycle and otherwise, must, of course, be respected – even with the support of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e978	With regard to the last issue, the standard of living, the representatives of the Central Party referred to the Norman Committee. I think it is particularly important that there is a standard of living when new housing is built in the districts. But then it is also that building a new life-cycle standard does not cost anything more if you plan it from the start. But what the House Bank also provides loans is the repair of existing dwellings, to ensure that those who do not have the opportunity and the opportunity to move from their homes can adapt them with reasonable loans and grants. I also think that's a great advantage. So to the representative Andersen, who explains that start-up loans should be given within the framework of what each individual can serve, and that it should not be cheaper than other loans, if I understood the representative's right. It's a start-up loan today. It's cheaper than bank loans. That's also why we have an initial loan. But the question that comes up is really what the party SV thinks about the mortgage regulation. This is the same as scrapping the mortgage regulation. It may be that there may be a need to make adjustments in the mortgage policy, but to scrap it I think it would be unfortunate. That's a reason why we have it. The SV also suggests removing the interest deduction. If you do, you hit those who have come into the housing market last time, and who have the highest loans relative. They're like young, vulnerable people. So we're talking in practice about putting young people in a debt trap, and I think that's very unfortunate. We have to remember that even though it has been a long time since now, we have had periods in the Norwegian housing market with large falls in housing prices. If you give up to 100 pst. Loans, as you did before, and housing prices fall — which is usually similar to the fact that young people lose their jobs, as many have done under the pandemic — well, you do not have the opportunity to keep the dwelling. You have to sell it, and then at a lower price than the loan you have, you want to sell it. It's a debt trap. So SV's response to young people's housing challenges in the big city is first a tax bomb and then a debt trap. I think it's a very bad combination, simply. On the other hand, I believe that we are using the start-up loan just to help those who have persistent challenges to get into the housing market, so that they get a safe environment around their lives. We have strengthened the start-up loan scheme, not least for families with children, to ensure that they have the opportunity to start their lives safely.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e987	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1004	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1011	I wanted to be as tidy in the last debate that we're supposed to have in this. Now I think everyone has got a confession that it has to be cleaned up in the kicking bike chaos that rules in many places. There have been doubts as to whether the municipalities have the right to regulate rental and use. I would like to thank the Committee for its good cross-political cooperation, and I would like to thank both the Minister for Local Affairs and the Minister for Transport for their cooperation in this matter. What we're doing now is we're proposing our own law to facilitate the rental of bicycles and to improve the accessibility and security of public space. I think everyone agrees on that. Spark cycles have come to stay, but they need to be regulated much better than they are today. This law allows municipalities to make regulations for these vehicles. There are two possibilities in those regulations. One is a regulation that may say something about places and zones on public grounds for deployment, for user regulation, speed limits and user bans in some areas, periods of rental, specified standards on battery time and environmental battery types – it is important that there is not much use and waste of these kicking cycles – and also requirements for the technology these cycles need to be equipped with in order, for example, to: must be capable of being regulated by «geovencing» and the like. In addition, it proposes a system of permits for the rental of small electric vehicles, as we call it in this Act, which allows for the maximum number of vehicles to be placed on public rental grounds, the maximum number of lessors to be allowed, and other conditions of the permit. There are two different schemes. In addition, we propose that the municipality should be able to provide a statutory fee to cover the municipality's administrative expenses and the organisation, supervision and control of this rental activity. The working party, the centre party and the SV believe that the possibility of taking street property rental should also be explored. The Government Parties in the Committee believe that this should be assessed in the context of an evaluation of the law. In addition, rules are now in place for the removal and storage of these kicking cycles.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1024	Of course, the working party is not against electric bicycles. You might have got the impression of that in parts of the debate, but it's definitely not like that. The electric bicycles can be a sensible means of development in almost every city and village. But this law was called for and is probably also required and necessary. One should not have gone many steps, at least not through Oslo's streets, in the last months or in the last six months to see that sometimes it flows of iron scrap, to use that expression, all over the pavement, it is difficult to pass with a baby carriage and not least for those who may have a visual impairment, which makes it difficult to discover what is lying and floating around. The fact that the municipalities now have an opportunity to take some action, to clean up and set up some quite reasonable demands on how these rentals should work is probably quite correct. I had hoped that we could get a majority for the proposal of basic rent already today, but that doesn't seem to be the case. We're going to have to get back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1033	Renting of electric bicycles has increased dramatically in recent years. The activities of the major cities have increased considerably, and the prevalence is now high in the smaller cities as well. The electric bicycle is a popular vehicle for many. It is fast, flexible and lightweight for urban use, but the extent and lack of driving rules have also caused considerable irritation and alarmingly many injuries. In view of this, the need to give the municipalities regulatory access has been striking, and a broad majority of the Committee, all of whom are not members of the Progress Party, have gathered on the proposal now being presented. I would like to refer to the rapporteur's review of what this is all about in its details. It was a nice review. On the right-hand side, we would like to emphasise in particular that the municipalities must, of course, manage this legislation in accordance with the framework of the EEA Agreement and comply with the non-discrimination requirements of the actors. This includes, inter alia: municipalities wishing to establish an authorisation scheme may not discriminate between operators on the basis of citizenship, residence or country of establishment. We also suggest that the lessors make data available, so that these activities are also included in the larger picture in which the municipalities work in terms of traffic and urban planning. Some of the things that have irritated most, in addition to the anxiety about accidents, are probably the fact that the bicycles are scattered beyond — almost everywhere — especially to the detriment of faint people, but also of residents and common passers-bys. Finding solutions to this issue is partly about regulation and partly about incorporating a better user culture. In addition to the regulations that municipalities will introduce, it is therefore important to appeal to all of us who use such bicycles, to exercise caution and consideration. Not everything can be governed by regulation, we must also accept responsibility as citizens. We have had good practices for the use of bicycles for many years. In principle, it should not be much harder to handle the electric bike. I hope and believe that the municipalities will use the funds we have now given them in a sensible way, and that we will find a good balance between regulation and user culture, so that in the future we can view the electric bicycle as a positive contribution or feature in the cityscape – instead of being a tower in the eye of many.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1046	Earlier today, the representative Limi was up here and said 'Assker and Bærum' very many times to get a nice statistic in Budstikka. I wonder if the representative Thommes gets a statistic when he uses the word ‘regulation’ as many times as he did in the previous article. I thought it was a bit special of a Right-Representative to end the session and eight years with blue plurals to applaud new regulations, but fortunately he was polite enough to say that there was one party that did not stand behind the touching unity of the whole hall, simply the Progress Party, and I get the opportunity to do a little bit of good for our vision. First, I have to say that this is a slightly special way of dealing with a law. Usually, a first step is to have a thorough hearing in the Ministry of New Laws introduced in this country. This promise has come as a bench proposal initiative from Stortinget, so it has not been heard in front of the department, and there has been a brief written hearing in Stortinget. I found it unusual to deal with a proposal that is so intrusive to business operators, in such a way. But of course, the big numbers are always going to be able to do their thing, and so are they. We understand very well that there are challenges with electric bicycles that lie strained and take up the front porch, but it is working with the State Road Administration, and the Department has just set new guidelines. We believe that one must let them get the work done before going to new, intrusive regulatory measures. There are many reasons why the Progress Party is skeptical about this. One reason is that we want the actors on this market to be indifferent and that the municipalities cannot squeeze out single actors. We then know that it may soon be the Norwegian companies that suffer damage, in favour of large foreign players who have the possibility to comply with the conditions imposed by the municipality. We know who's gonna be the losers then. The price for consumers goes up when competition goes down, and innovation goes down when there are not enough players competing with each other. In the last year, we have seen that prices have fallen, and we have seen that the product they are offering is better. It gets one more when one has free competition and not too much regulation. Finally, we realize that this matter for us, with such great commitment and plurality from everyone else, seems to be lost. We hope that the municipalities manage this wisely, and that one avoids a lot of lawsuits and ESA challenges. But we're a little surprised that our proposal that we ask the department to create a guide, in an area that is so little known and arranged, doesn't seem to get multiple numbers. So we appeal to the other parties to consider our proposal that a circular be created so that at least the department can tell the municipalities how to manage this code. It should have got more today, I thought. I accept the suggestions from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1061	The representative Helge André Njåstad has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1066	Since the introduction of electric bicycles in Norway a few years ago, they have evolved into a huge problem. The situation is untenable, both for those with a baby carriage, a scooter or a wheelchair and not least for the blind and partially sighted – but also for all others to travel in the city. The municipalities have long asked for a permit for regulation, but nothing has happened. Therefore, the Senterpartie encouraged proposals to put in place a system in which municipalities could regulate this, and a classification of electric bicycles as vehicles, which could solve some of the other problems. Fortunately, part of this has been followed up by legislation on electric bicycles, and we have to hope that it will lead to fewer damage and fewer conflicts with walking, and that it will be safer to travel in cities, even for those who do not. It was absolutely necessary to get a legal case in place to get a permit to the municipalities in order for them to be able to regulate this in their own municipality, and for us it was important to get it in place before the summer. We just couldn't have another summer with the same chaos. This provision of purpose facilitates the rental of small electric vehicles on public land, in order to ensure the availability and security of public space and efficient management, environmentally friendly solutions and good local environments, should be allowed to be regulated by municipalities. I am quite surprised that the Progress Party, which sometimes talks very much about municipal autonomy and that the state has to stop overdoing, here will not listen to the municipalities and on the contrary believe that the State should override the municipalities, and that there should be a continued ban on municipalities from making such regulations. It surprises me. The centre party is also opposed to detailed regulation, but we believe that the proposed law is only about giving the municipality the opportunity to control its own land use to a greater extent than today. Then the Central Party disagrees with the government parties and the Advance Party that the municipalities should not be able to take rentals for the use of street grounds. It should have been allowed in this case as well. The use of electric bicycles occupies just as much street space as if you set up a slurry or sausage shed, and those who have municipal land for business must be willing to pay. But the most urgent thing was to put in place a regulator, so we let go of the chaos this summer, and I'm very happy that we've got a large majority on it. And then we might have to take it with street rent in the next majority period.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1081	The left does not participate with any representatives of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, which is why I am speaking here now. I am in the Transport and Communications Committee, which is closely related to the challenges we face here, as it concerns electric bicycles, which under today's legislation are compared to bicycles. Now there is a question of how municipalities can manage this. In the left, we thank the Municipal and Administrative Committee for taking this initiative and for setting up a law around it, because during the two to three years of electric bicycles, it has been shown that there are a good deal of unfortunate circumstances especially around the parking lot. The use of the electric bicycles I want to decorate – first of all, because it's fun, and it's fun, and then it's useful because you actually get there very quickly. I think this is a means of transport that is just going to be used more and more. I believe that the proposals under consideration today are important and correct. I myself live in Trondheim, I live about in the middle of town and see these electric bicycles everywhere. I don't think they're very concerned about the ordinary street life and the usual city life. But for some groups I also see that there are major problems, especially when the electric bicycles are thrown on the pavement and other public places, so that they prevent others. That's what we have to regulate, so there's going to be an arrangement on this. So if these landlords can't handle it, they can be fined, and not least you can say clearly that you're not wanted when you can't handle your own rental market. I hope that this will help, and then we'll evaluate how strict action needs to be taken, not least this with the street section, but I think this is something that is very promising for the time being.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1092	Let me first thank the committee and not least the committee chairman for a very good cooperation on this matter. The government believes that electric bicycles are an innovative and positive contribution to urban mobility and that they have come to stay. At the same time, experience shows that electric bicycles also bring with them some challenges both in terms of safety and accessibility for other categories of road users. We have e.g. see a large number of injuries – some of them serious – and we see that there are several disadvantages for, among others. blind and wheelchair users. Several municipalities have also called for stricter regulation of electric bicycles. I am therefore pleased that a broad political majority is now joining forces to give municipalities a clear legal base to regulate the rental of small electric vehicles on public land. The government has always believed that it is within the authority of the municipalities to regulate the rental of electric bicycles on municipal land. However, there is so much doubt that this is the case, among other things. in a decision of the Frosting Lawyers’ Court, the judgment is not enforceable. We therefore see that there is a need to clarify and clarify the accessibility of municipalities to regulate the rental of electric bicycles. The legislative proposal under consideration today has not been put forward by the government, but the government has provided legal assistance and answered questions about the involvement of the committee hearing. The letters are attached to the Committee configuration. Urban electric bicycles bring advantages and disadvantages. For the government it has always been important to weigh the different considerations against each other. We need to find sensible solutions that take care of everyone who is affected. I believe that the Storting and the government have now found a good balance. The law will provide municipalities with a good legal basis for regulating rental activities on public grounds and will be a good complement to traffic rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1101	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1107	I would like to ask the Council of State about paragraph 2 of Section 3 of the new law, about the access of municipalities to provide regulations. It says that the regulation includes, among other things: may provide for «areas on public grounds where use regulations such as speed restrictions and prohibitions of use are in place». If we look at Oslo's inner city, as I know best: there are many who walk on the pavement, and there is a kind of slumping – I experience it every day – across the street. In surveys and polls in Oslo, eight out of ten say that they are experiencing increased uncertainty on the pavement in Oslo, and it's obviously an inner city problem. If this provision, i.e. this access for the municipalities in the regulation on prohibition of use, could mean that Oslo municipality e.g. would be able to prohibit driving an electric bicycle on the pavements of Ring 2 in Oslo, which is an inner city?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1114	At least I perceive that there is an opportunity to introduce bans on use in individual areas, but I do not want to go into the extent to which such a geographical area might be. But if the representative wants it, I would like to come back with an assessment of the specific question that is being asked here.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1119	Although it was not a final answer, it was an interesting answer, because there is little about it in the bill and in the vote. It says that there may be areas of particular traffic or accumulation of people, and I consider those areas of the inner city, for example. on Karl Johan, where there are very close people who go, and where it is run across and across, like that kind of area. So this is an important question, because it will determine what we can solve with the law that we get adopted today, and what might remain to be solved. The big problem for the people of Oslo, at least as I know it, is, in addition to the number of electric bicycles that are wrapped around, the conflict with walking on the pavement and walking paths.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1124	Now, the Minister of Transport is going to make some comments, but I understand that the conflict with walking on the pavement is also something that the Ministry of Transport has been very concerned about by introducing new traffic rules into regulations that give municipalities the opportunity to sign and regulate this in a different way than before. But I am absolutely sure that the Minister for Transport will come to a close. I understand that this legal text, as it now exists, will allow you to say in certain areas that driving an electric bicycle is not allowed. The representative asked about the entire area within Ring 2 in Oslo, and that is a slightly different issue than for example. bottom part of Karl Johan, where there are a lot of walking, so I think I have to come back to the representative on that particular question. But I probably wouldn't, if I were on the city board, be prepared to regulate the entire area within Ring 2 as one area.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1131	On 18 May, Astrup’s good colleague in the Ministry of Transport introduced quite strict rules for the enforcement and use of electric bicycles. Among other things, introduced an option to issue a parking fee, it was separated to establish parking-free zones, speed limits, prohibition of use, prohibition of being two on one vehicle, with quite high fines, 6 km/h as maximum speed limitation, among others. on the pavement and that traffic rules shall not restrict municipal self-determination. Fortunately, no ban was imposed by Hareide. I really perceive that what is being treated here today is a little bit of butter in the bottle, so I wonder why the Minister of State sees the need to have this case at all, and why it is not enough with the rules already introduced by the Ministry of Transport. I really hope that Astrup himself does not want any prohibition, as we know someone in this room wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1138	The representative forgot to include that it is still allowed to chew on liquorice pipe when driving on the kicking bike, so everything is not prohibited – although the Council of State is somewhat more pleased with the ban than the representative is, I think we can establish that. That being said, the representative is quite right. For very many municipalities, this will be butter in bottle. A lot of municipalities don't need to regulate this business, a lot of municipalities don't have a problem with it. I am concerned about local self-government, and our attitude to this has been that the municipalities have had the opportunity to regulate this on a public basis. So Frostating has raised doubts as to whether that is the case. It is good that the Stortinget has taken the initiative in this House, which gives the municipalities that need it the opportunity to regulate it in an appropriate way, based on local circumstances. I am concerned about local self-government, and I hope that the representative is also.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1145	It is reassuring to hear that we can still take the liquorice pipe on the electric bike. There are other things that the Minister of Transport might prohibit. I still do not understand the need for further regulation and action, as Astrup is obviously so concerned about getting through this law. It is with prohibition, which fortunately is not regulated by the Ministry of Transport or open to, and there is a possible tender. Unfortunately, it may favor large international actors with muscle and financial strength to meet quite extensive demands that we know that red-green municipalities can come along, which will then exclude both new Norwegian actors and smaller actors. I still wonder: what is so important to open up to introduce, beyond what has already been introduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1154	As I said, I have confidence that local self-government works as it should. This means that it should be possible to regulate this locally in a manner appropriate to the circumstances of each municipality. I have seen in the past that the representative has been very concerned about the local self-government. In particular, in construction and objection cases, there has been a review by the representative and his party. I think we should also have confidence that the municipalities can manage to find good ways to manage the electric bicycles where there is a need for it. Not all municipalities have challenges with this. I'm clear that I'm in favour of electric bicycles, but I think it's good that it comes into order, because it's real challenges, not least for faint minds and other groups that are negatively affected by the fact that these kick cycles are almost everywhere, are dangerous to traffic and pose a risk of personal injury to pedestrians and other road users.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1162	There has been very good cooperation on putting these legal provisions into place, and the committee has had good cooperation on the recordings that have been made. What I think everyone is interested in is that this has to be evaluated, because this is a new area. It also came a little late this year, so more municipalities will probably have problems putting in place these regulations that they now get permission to do, if they think they need it. The question is what time horizon the Council of State sees for such an evaluation. I mean, you can't wait years to do that. So now we have the changes that came from the Ministry of Transport, and we have this law. There may be a need to adjust something to this rather quickly, so the question is: How quickly does the Council of State think it can be possible to make an evaluation?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1169	I fully agree that there may be a need to evaluate the law relatively quickly. At the same time, in order to evaluate it, it must work a little, if no evaluation has no purpose. I think we should at least have the opportunity to see how this law works in practice during a kick cycle season. Now we see how quickly the municipalities manage to regulate this in municipal regulations. I see that, for example, The municipality of Oslo has already sent out draft regulations at the hearing, which means that it can be put in place relatively quickly. Then we will gain experience in how this works. I fully agree with the representative that there may be a need to adjust the law when we have gained some experience with it. I think we're all concerned that this should be working well both for the users, for the municipality and for the providers, and then there can be absolutely a need to adjust the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1174	Government lots will not go into this with street rent. Can the Council of State say little about what is the assessment? These are areas that are put at the disposal of traders on the same line as making areas available for a sales bow, for example. What is the assessment that, in the case of electric bicycles, it should not be possible to take street rent, but if you have a sausage bow, a slurring bow, or anything else, is it entirely right that the municipality should be compensated for some having to dispose of the street floor?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1180	In time, it may be reasonable to give the municipalities the opportunity to require basic rent. My starting point has been that I think it is wise that the question is given a more detailed assessment when the law has worked a little and we see the effect of the changes we are now making. It depends on how street-ground rentals are arranged. It can have quite a big impact on the offer to users and what kind of providers we get in the market. The most important thing now has been to solve the traffic challenges, the challenges in the urban scene, that many kick cycles are sluggish and cause direct damage to others — which we recently saw when an 83-year-old broke his neck after tripping into an electric bike. This has been the most important thing, and then we get back to the question of street rent.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1187	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1192	Minister Nikolai Astrup started his speech with a thank-you, and I'm going to stop to that thank you. This is a very good initiative, and it is a very good work that has been done. The chairperson of the Committee began by saying that there were doubts about the basis here. That doubt is now being cleared away, and I think that's a good thing for everyone involved. Then there's no doubt that the electric bicycles are very popular. It's a climate-friendly and environmentally friendly way of transporting yourself, and not least in a pandemic situation, I think many people have enjoyed this. But I want to say that there are at least two major challenges to the use we have seen. The one thing is the number of damage and hard damage. We have had 2,500 injuries since 2019, and many of them are very serious. We also know that the father, using an electric bike up against a regular bike, is ten times bigger on an electric bike. The head injuries are very overrepresented. Now when we look at numbers and just compare 2021 with 2020, we see a double in the number of injuries only in the one year. The other thing that many people have brought up here is what's going on in the parking lot, that it's not clear, and that many vulnerable groups are struggling with the emergence because of this. And it's true, as the debate has also shown, that the Ministry of Transport has come up with rules that help to do this better. In the case of parking, a fee of 900 kroner is now granted for bicycles that have been parked in error. There should be only one person on a bicycle. If there are two or more, a fine of NOK 3000 will be given. There are challenges, not least to the use of forts. We see that the pressure on the pavement has become considerably greater. It's important to know that it's the walking ones who own the pavement, and we like bicycles, are allowed to use the pavement if we're not in trouble for those who walk there. We're not done with our work either. We also work on the per mill limit and follow it up. I already see that Oslo is working on the local regulation, and I think it is good that, for example, we hear about night closing in Oslo. I think that would be very good given the extent of the damage, and I also think a number of limitations are necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1209	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1214	Like the Council of State, I am concerned that accidents have already occurred – quite serious accidents – and that is how it will be when we travel speedily. One of the questions discussed in the legislative proposal, which has not received a final answer, is the question of liability insurance. Especially when we're talking about renting electric bicycles, there's a field where it's unclear what the responsibilities actually are. Some of the comments of the State Council to the Committee are to consider measures in this respect. Can the Council of States be more specific on what requirements and how to regulate this relationship? Will those renting electric bicycles be required to have liability insurance for any damage resulting from the rental activity?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1219	I can clearly answer yes to that. As I also said from the pulpit, and as I'm sure the representative Sivertsen got with him, we're not done with all the work. That is why this is something we are now looking at, and then it will primarily apply to the commercial operators and their demands. We have had accidents where questions have been asked about the issue of insurance, and therefore this is something we are looking at. We're not done with the work, but there's a work going on in the Ministry of Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1224	I was actually going to brag a little bit of the Minister of Transport right now, but I think I have to change my mind after the Hareide post, because he started talking about that he wants to have the prom limit in addition. My question really depended on how far the minister will go, because he has actually done a good job with the rules that have come into place now. There's actually a lot of regulation lying there. The minister himself said that there are very high fines. NOK 3000 a fine to be two on one bicycle, even when you're sober, is expensive for two young people. Then it almost pays to buy an electric bike itself. I really hope that the per mille limit is not a priority for the minister. I just imagine, for example. on a camping site, an older couple who sit around a bit – they don’t go fast on the electric bicycles, they walk for only 20 km/h – and visit friends and acquaintances at the campground in the summer and have taken a beer. It obviously wants Hareide to put an end to it. So I'm really wondering how far the minister will go in regulating, prohibiting and destroying the joy of driving an electric bike.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1231	Now I was a little surprised, because one of the first people in the public room pointed to the need for the per mill limit when I was present, was the representative Siv Jensen. We were in the TV 2s studio together and discussed this issue. The representative, Siv Jensen, then pointed out that a per mill limit could be a wise way to tackle this problem. I often found that there is good reason to listen to the representative Siv Jensen and took it with me, and is now working on it. We know that if we were to get a pro-mille limit right now, we would have to reclassify it, i.e., into a running gear, and that would have consequences. Then there would be a per mill limit of 0.2. I thought that it might be worth discussing what is the right per million limit. That I naturally thought should have a listener on. I do not have an accurate answer to what is the right limit, but I believe that working further is in line with what is right when we see the damage.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1238	We fully agree with the objective of ensuring that there are of course no accidents and getting the car park in order. We all agree on that. But I may feel that the Minister has taken a little bit of Möller's tran if he needs to take action before he sees the effect of the measures already in place. I hope and wonder a little, and my question to the minister is: is it not wise perhaps to wait and see a little, for now there have been many measures? Unfortunately, this law is being passed today, which can limit the use of electric bicycles even more. Should not the impact of the measures be seen before engaging the Ministry's bureaucracy to investigate, evaluate and work with even more new orders and restrictions?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1245	Some of the difference between the measures taken by the Ministry of Transport and what is agreed here today is that the Ministry of Transport’s rules apply to the whole country — naturally. But here, cities and municipalities will be able to assess a little bit differently. We see that this is not at least a big problem in the biggest cities. As I also said, I think Oslo thinks wisely when they are looking at a regulation. For example: My municipality of residence, Bømlo, is not sure that the same regulation that Oslo proposes is right there. I see that at two o'clock at night at Bømlo I would be a little annoyed if the electric bike did not pass, because I don't think the problem is so big there. But I'm very much in agreement with the thinking of the City Council in Oslo when they're now looking at night closing here, based on the numbers and the issues we're seeing. I think it's good that we can have a local self-government in this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1250	Speaking of what the previous representative said about these not going fast, you can only read advertisements for privately sold electric bicycles. It says 20 km/h and in brackets ‘legal’, and in several of the ads it says 100 km/h ‘illegal’. So 100 kilometers per hour is part of this. With regard to this type of sale of privately owned electricity-parking bicycles – which is not covered by the case today, which concerns rental companies in the municipalities – they are sold with the capacity to drive up to 100 km/h. On most people there are no speed barriers, as I understand it. I see that dealers have told Avisa Oslo that they cannot sell with a speed limit, because then they lose in the competition for the sale, and it has therefore been sold 240,000. Will the Council of State look at rules that there must be speed barriers on those sold privately?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1258	There's something I want to look at. It's just that we're now implementing a lot of controls. Then it's important to check the bikes. Only in the last few weeks have we had many controls in this city to see if the electric bicycles are illegal. I know that the police, in cooperation with the State Road Administration, are doing that kind of checks on electric bicycles just to uncover illegal use, because it is illegal to use it if you have lifted the speed limit. It is clear that there is a grey market there, and unfortunately accident statistics show it. The problem that the representative Jan Bøhler raises is that we should look at it and go into it carefully.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1263	I very much agree with the Council of State that the accidents are a major concern, but it is true that after wishing more people to ride, the same thing happened – the accidents went up sharply. I guess that's not that different. But what I really want to ask the Council of States is something else. He says he is very pleased with the proposal that comes now, but this is a criticism of the Council of State, which has put forward and made new rules, from a great majority of the parties of his own government. Doesn't the Council of State see that this clearly seems like he hasn't done enough? I believe he has done a lot, but he should have let it work. It is particularly true that his own party in Stortinget is promoting a proposal that says that the Council of State has not done the job he is going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1270	It is The Storting that has taken this initiative, but I am pleased. There's also that it's not necessarily easy to see what's right, because taking an electric bicycle, which actually has much greater speed, would be a belief that one there had had many accidents. We didn't get that. When it comes to electric bicycles, which can go for 40 to 50 km/h, we have quite a few accidents. But on electric bicycles, which can go for a maximum of 20 km/h, at least the rental part, we've had a lot of accidents and a lot more than I thought. Yes, I would like to take a little self-criticism that I should be even earlier out with some of this work, but we have been working continuously during at least the last year. I say to Stortinget that we are continuing to work, because I believe it is absolutely necessary to follow developments. Per mille limit is a problem and liability insurance one of the things we have to follow up, because we're not in the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1277	We who rust a couple of times a day through the Castle Park, see that some of these electric bicycles can go crazy fast, perhaps not those who are rented out, but the private ones, and that they are a great danger both to walking and to yourself. We've seen that accident statistics are pretty daunting, and they're very serious accidents, despite the fact that they're going to have a low speed. I'm a little surprised by the government's argument that you don't want to classify this as a vehicle. When the private can go up to 80 km/h, it is quite clear that it is a vehicle. Then we could also have been regulated on e.g. per mille limit, to which I am initially very positive, because I see that the driving skills are not getting any better than the night. Is it a prerequisite for putting in place a per mill limit that it is classified as a vehicle and will it be possible to have a differentiated per mill limit on it and on what is otherwise in traffic?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1284	Looking at the classification I think is something we should do in the future, but it's clear that immediately reclassifying from one category to another will have some follow-up effects. For example, an electric bike is not always welcome on the pavement, but is it better to have that kind of rapidities in the roadways around the whole country? It's not necessarily the best solution there. One has to look at that wholeness, because there's something about reclassification causing some follow-up effects. A solution might be to have an intermediate classification. Then we have to look at that kind of solutions. I think going from one category to another category has some effects on the use of tools on electric bicycles, which are used a lot everywhere, but it also has some positive sides. If they were not allowed to walk on the pavement in a district, there would also be something special.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1289	The cord shift is over. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1296	There has been a little back and forth about the implementation of the two things we have about electric bicycles today, so I just spend time now thanking the transport committee in the same sling for good cooperation, even if it got a little weird. A lot of comments were made, and it was just referred to the discussion in the municipal committee, but I think at least that both the municipal committee and the transport committee agree that there is a need to clean up – there is no doubt about it. There's a little bit of disagreement about how far to go, how to clean, and what's necessary to clean up. There is probably some difference, and the Progress Party is probably different from the rest, for Norwegian politicians are unfortunately – especially those on the left – very happy in prohibitions, injunctions, regulations and restrictions. The more bureaucracy we can get, and the more taxes and taxes we can get to skin our inhabitants, the better it is, it seems like. It is unfortunately a little typical, and we also see that in this case. The progress point stands for the opposite, and it usually does the right side as well. Even the Left and Christian People's Party tends to be concerned about it; they tend to be happy with simplification, efficiency, public sector reduction and less bureaucracy and to try to cut it, but obviously not in this case. It actually confirms Hareide as well, and I have to say that it was a little disappointing to hear the minister say that he will go even further. He is not satisfied, and he has already introduced very strict rules regulating the electric bicycle market. The municipal committee will go further, but unfortunately Hareide is still not satisfied and will go further with new orders and bans. The only little point of light I saw – I hope I didn’t get it wrong, but I understood the minister that it’s an opening because at Bømlo, in the village and in campsites, it’s still possible to get a beer and drive an electric bike, but not in Oslo. At least that was my interpretation of the Minister’s intervention — that there is a difference between city and country. It is clear that the possibility of perhaps crashing and running into some of the buildings is a little less than in packed big cities with lots of pedestrians that can be hit and damaged. It is alarming that the government parties in this case have allied themselves with SV and the ban queen Karin Andersen and indirectly impose a ban on something that is so popular, that works and that people actually want. It was the Progress Party in government that opened up electric bicycles, in good cooperation with the Right, with which we had a very good cooperation in the previous period. There are also other wonderful means of transport – not only electric bicycles, but electric bicycles have taken the most off, which is what has become most popular. People have accepted it with open arms and great enthusiasm, and it's not so strange, because the electric bicycles are a brilliant means of transport. It takes little space, it's flexible, it doesn't noise, it doesn't pollute, it doesn't fight, it's not a suspended dust, and it takes you wherever you want – it takes you from A to B quickly and efficiently. It's perfect and absolutely amazing. But it's a big one, but we all agree on that. There have been some problems with accidents and also some problems with the bicycles being scattered around, and I can come back to that a little later.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1309	I would like to inform the representative that at Bømlo there are neither bicycles nor camping and hardly enough beer. [[Muntering in the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1314	On 8 April, in the Central Party, we promoted a representative proposal here at Stortinget on the classification of electric bicycles and the local authorities' access to regulation of rental companies, those renting electric bicycles. The background was that a State Secretary in the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation had told the NRK on 20 March that he did not believe the government would be able to deliver new rules for electric bicycles before the summer. We saw the need for something to be done, and therefore we are very pleased that it led to the creation – whether it led to it or not, there were probably many reasons – of a proposal here in the Municipal Committee in cooperation with the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, and this proposal we are dealing with today in this matter. There will be one thing later today as well. What we are dealing with today largely covers point two of our proposal for a representative on the ability of municipalities to regulate their business. I just want to say about the situation, and especially in Oslo, it is now estimated that it will be up to 25,000 electric bikes for rent in Oslo this summer. It started with 4,000 in the summer of 2019, so it's increased very quickly. Compared with other European countries, where the average in the capitals is 35 electric bicycles per 10,000 inhabitants, Oslo is above 300 and up to 350 per 10,000 inhabitants, i.e. a nine to ten times higher than the average in other European countries. The total lack of regulation has led to a completely different situation here than in other European major cities. We have only received a message last weekend from the Civil Protection Officer in Oslo about 33 injuries in two days – 33 with serious injuries in two days. I am pleased with what is being done by the local committee today. We're done with the number that's rented out, that the municipalities can regulate it. We're going to have to do something about how they can't be hurled everywhere, so the parking conditions, and people can't stumble into them. We can do something about the use of night time. What we don't get to do is privacy. There is a lot of pressure on parents to buy electric bicycles for children and young people, which I am constantly hearing about, and it is advertised at speeds up to 100 km/h – in brackets ‘illegal’, but without barriers. If the government is serious that it is dangerous to let children drive on a vehicle at that kind of possible speeds, I believe that we should intervene with the rules regarding the sale. We will return later today to the classification of electric bicycles, and then I will also follow up this with driving on footpaths and pavements.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1327	It can quickly become somewhat inconspicuous when the regulation of electric bicycles is dealt with in several committees. That is why, in the Committee on Transport, we refer to the draft document 8 which is being discussed in the Municipal Committee. We in Workers' Parties see that this vehicle is flexible and makes it easy to get there quickly by making it easily accessible, and it can reduce car traffic in our cities, but we also see that there is a need for regulation, and that municipalities need to control this beyond the regulatory changes related to the Road Traffic Act and the traffic rules. More media headlines tell us that regulatory changes sometimes have unintended consequences for areas other than what it was intended to do. It is important to ensure good road safety for all types of road users and to ensure the accessibility of all. I would like to refer to the proposal of the Health Committee which was dealt with earlier this week, on insurance liability, that those who are victims of an accident also have to cover their costs for the necessary treatment of dental injuries – and believe that companies that rent electric bicycles have a special responsibility for ensuring that an innocent third party does not suffer financial damage in the event of an accident. The proposal was to ask the government to introduce liability insurance requirements. Unfortunately, this was not the majority, but I note that the Minister of Transport is opening up to assess this. There is also reference to a huge increase in the number of accidents, and that only in Oslo there were more than 800 accidents from 2019 to 2020, and it has grown even more since then. This matter shall be brought up again later today with the Transport Committee. In this case, we are promoting a proposal asking the government to draw up a classification of electric bicycles as a type of vehicle, so that municipalities can regulate parking and other legislation for use in line with other vehicles. I expect that we will have to take up that proposal when that matter comes on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1347	This matter is about facilitating the driving of a motorcycle, and that it is done in such a way that everyone has freedom in the cityscape. From someone it sounds like this is a ban, and it's not at all. But for the majority, and for the SV, it is very important that everyone should be able to use the public space, and that that freedom should be the same for those who drive wheelchairs or are weak-minded, as for those who use electric bicycles or other bicycles, or cars for that purpose. I see this early in the morning, because I am often out then. The weird thing I see is the ranking that's in traffic, that when there's a pile of kicks on the pavement, which I can skip, people think it's okay. But if there's a kick bike out on the road, then people pull it into the pavement. It tells me a little about the ranking that's in traffic, namely that it's the cars first, and then probably the bikes and kick cycles come, and finally the walk comes. And that should actually be the opposite. One of the reasons why this needs to be regulated is that our cities are not built to accommodate walking or cycling or kicking cycles. There's a pretty tough fight going on in many places to give a little better space now for those who choose to use, for example. kicking bike, which I think looks awfully funny, but because of age and fear of femoral fractures I have not dared to try yet. But I realize that this is a very all-right means of entry, but it has to be regulated where there's a lot of use now, and where there's a lot of tension about the place, because everyone has to have the freedom to use our urban space and be able to travel, whether it's on foot, in a wheelchair or on a bicycle, and they should at least be able to use most of the urban space. We need to limit the cars gradually. So that's the reason. This happens overtime. I hear a lot of complaints from the Progress Party. Well, they've been sitting with the Minister of Transport for a very long time. This could have been settled by the Progress Party if they wanted to. This has come after a very close cooperation between the Committee and two departments. So it's worked through. We wish this had happened before. I note that the Progress Party is not very concerned about promoting quite comprehensive proposals right into the Storting, which they believe will be dealt with almost above the table, so I think this is more about a resistance to all of this. Finally, I would like to stress the importance of liability insurance and liability. It must be in place quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1360	This is a matter that goes into two committees. I think this debate is perhaps the most complicated and the most important one to be involved. So I start my post by saying, "Liste carefully, I shall say this only once." As far as electric bicycles are concerned, there are three aspects we are discussing. One is the classification of the vehicle. It's a matter that you're waiting for, because you think it's a much more complicated matter. Then the department gets back with it at a later date. We don't want to put any pressure on it. That is why we are voting against the proposal in the second case. The second is the use of the vehicle. There the Council of State has already ensured that we received a regulation on 18 May, which in a way regulates much of the use of this vehicle in the short term. The third concerns the right and the ability of municipalities to clean up the chaos, and to ensure that this works properly for all road users. Electric bicycles are a positive precursor that contributes to efficient and environmentally friendly transport. So essentially, this is a good thing if you could say it. But then there's an accident. We're faced with a situation where we have to clean up. There's a need to clean up. This goes on for the first time how to set them up. It's about chaos here – it's not just where to start, it's also where to stop and where to stay in the meantime. I am probably affected by the fact that I am driving around in Oslo and see that these bikes are all over the place. It's a problem. Sparking cycles have also been shown to be road-hazardous. Maybe it's primarily because it's a crazy use. That's something I've been thinking about in many ways, it's true in terms of both bicycles and electric bicycles, that the road users who use them have no particular relation to traffic rules, perhaps because they don't have a licence, they haven't been trained. School doesn't have the ability to learn. But it's actually, in my opinion, unwise use. You have to ensure that you enforce the rules you are introducing so that you have a safe relationship with them. But it must also be expected that one on an electric bike will have to follow the same rules as a driver, a cyclist or a walker. It's compulsory. There are speed limits. And you have to make sure you're in a state where you can assess your own safety, and yours.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1379	I'll start by saying thank you to the previous speaker, Igstad, for a clear presentation that there are three different perspectives we're discussing at the same time here. But I share the view that many people have expressed that this is a good one. The electric bike is a good one. It is technological progress and, as most technological advances provide new opportunities for the benefit of its citizens. But as with many technologies, there are also some disadvantages. Especially when we talk about how it affects the possibilities of the general public, where one's freedom can restrict another's, it's actually a matter for both us and colleagues around the whole country to make sure that the balance and the necessary balances are balanced. And then I'm going to take the opportunity to say that I'm taking away from the way of characterizing both named members of the Stortinget, in this case committee leader Andersen, and generally characterizing politicians around the whole country that makes these kinds of balances, in the way that the representative Johnsen did in his speech. I do not think so in this debate. The issues we are discussing here are not new issues. This has been discussed by several of us, for example. under Arendalsuka several years ago, and the industry then argued that there is no need for regulation here, we are going to sort this out ourselves. But as usual, it turns out that it is not feasible, because it is not free competition that is the objective, it is equal to competition and equal competition. It's a balance for different reasons. That is why it needs to be regulated. It illustrates another point, that technology comes first, and then regulations have to follow. It is difficult to regulate something you have not thought about – no one has a wish for it. That is why I am very happy that everyone who has been involved has managed to give in to two points, not least the Stortinget, who has now taken on its responsibility as legislator and has been given a law in a short time. I have noticed and read through the judgment of Frostating Lawyers, which in fact also referred to the representative proposal that Stortinget has to deal with today, so there are some issues here that we have to come back to. I think we should have respect for also, as the Council of State has pointed out, that this is where things have gone very quickly – there are still things that are undecided. In the setting, we mention that this law does not actually provide a basis for the introduction of street rent. No, but maybe that's how ownership gives it the opportunity. It needs to be illuminated better, and that work needs to be put in place. The judgment of Frosting Lawyers gives no clear answer to that, as far as I can see. We've discussed liability insurance. The Council of State has said that he will come back to it. Another aspect of this is a discussion such as: has been travelled from the Municipality of Oslo: what opportunity do we have to impose requirements and conditions on those who operate that business, for example: related to the rights of workers, working conditions, etc.? It is also a matter that needs to be followed up in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1392	There's a need to clean up. That is something that is repeated by a lot of representatives from this pulpit – and that is where we all agree, as I said. But I want to follow up again on the two main problems that are really the cause, as we in the Progress Party see it, that we are here today. It is with accidents and that the bicycles are scattered around. But what surprises us is that it seems that someone in this room obviously didn't quite realize that Hareide and the department were working on rules, and that there were rules. For the two proposals that we now have for debate and discussion, some progress was made before the rules arrived. Our point from the Progress Party is that the main arguments used against electric bicycles, which are repeated in this room over and over again now, that the bicycles are scattered around and that there are accidents, are respected by the rules that are now in place. We just have to wait and see the effect of them. I read an interview with the police on this very topic, and then the local police chief said that they had not quite had time to get into it yet. It is clear that it may not be a top priority task to start having speed control and checking electric carcyclists – that would not have been my priority if I had been in the police at least, when you see a lot different in the crime scene we have. You have scarce resources, and that's the challenge. Had they had a lot of money, it would be easy to enforce all the rules that politicians require the police to follow up. The point is that when you start following the rules, it's going to work. The municipalities have a framework for this, they have an opportunity to do that today. The industry’s actors also understand their own responsibilities and take responsibility for them. Then much of the criticism will be gone, and then you won't need any more restrictions. It's a parking fee, it's an inaugural fee. The inauguration fee in Oslo is, as far as I know, NOK 1590 – there is a lot of money. The council of Hareide said it was 900 kroner in the parking lot. There's big, strict fines like swirling. Of course you get a couple of these fines, you sharpen up. Then it will not be long to continue with chaos and bicycles that lie scattered around. That's why we really don't understand the point of dealing with the two issues here today – sorry, but we don't. We certainly do not see the need to go further and introduce even more injunctions, bans and restrictions. We experience that it is really a hidden agenda, that it is simply a desire to give municipalities the opportunity to ban electric bicycles. It's a little bit of a shame, because I also experience hearing a lot of people here in this room from several parties boasting the electric bicycles and saying that it's a good way of transport, it's a positive way of transport, it's a sensible way of transport. What is our concern on the part of the Progress Party is that all the bans, bans and restrictions that the majority of population now obviously want to take on at the same time, probably – and unfortunately – will make the electric bicycles less attractive and less popular, because then you lose the flexibility and freedom you have. That's a little bit of the point that the bike is there when you need it. To limit it with very few parking spaces, like Trondheim, which wants six or four parking spaces, it no longer becomes flexible.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1407	This case is about giving the municipalities legal homes for which they feel they need, for which both departments have said that there may be reason why they need, and that Frostating Lawyers – that is not a judgment of law – have condemned a municipality to try to regulate. Then it is a little difficult to understand what should be the motivation for not giving the municipalities such an opportunity to clean up and make it possible to use these kicking cycles in such a way that it is a pleasure for everyone. Some people try to make the impression that this is a prohibition case. It's not being erased. This is a matter that is about us just wanting to have it regulated in such a good way that – as I said in my previous post – it becomes freedom for everyone, and that in the case of the scarce good that the urban space and pavements are many places, the city sea or the municipality can make some rules for how this should be done in the best possible way, so that there is room for everyone. I mean this is an important step in the right direction, which will make me think that the mind against the kicking cycles that at least I get in my mailbox, can also be dampened. I have no faith in any ban on this at all. I have no faith that this is a technology that disappears. But it has to be done in a reasonable way, which makes it possible for everyone to fit on equal terms. So little to what is stated in Section 3, which deals with specified standards, such as battery requirements and environmental battery types. It's necessary that when you're going to do this on a large scale, you have it, because it's not environmentally friendly, either, if there's any rattle that's thrown after every season. It becomes a big garbage problem when you have technologies that are not good. It is also important, which is paragraph 5 of Section 3, that there are requirements for technology and compliance with requirements, i.e. limitations. There are then opportunities to demand that this immobiliser should also be present. That's absolutely necessary. It is, as the representative of Bohemia was in, a large private market, which is more difficult to regulate. But if we do this in a good way with regard to the professional landlords, and this is proper and the offer is good, it will be, I think, preferred for many against having to drive and carry a kick bike out and in where they are going to be, and take responsibility for it being parked safely and safely and not stolen.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1420	I would like to follow up on what I asked the municipal councillor about the change in line with the new law § 3, paragraph 2, that the regulation that the municipalities can lay down, among other things. may provide for areas. Point 2 reads: «areas on public grounds where user regulations such as speed restrictions and prohibitions of use are in place». It is said, as I said, not so much in the bill on the scope of such a ban on use, but areas of particular traffic or accumulation of people are mentioned. So I asked the municipal minister in the line change instead if this would mean, for example, that. The municipality of Oslo can ban use in an area where many walk on the pavements, and where it is run in a kind of slum with electric bicycles between people on the pavements. It creates great insecurity and many accidents. The Council of State, the Minister of State, responded positively that this was something to be assessed and could not be answered exactly now, but he also indicated that the Minister of Transport might have had assessments of it. It will be important for us to know about the discussion of what other things there are needed to do, because I see that if we don't get more done with the slumping on the pavements among many people, it lives on insecurity. It's not only about how many are injured, but also about people looking over their shoulders. Many of us have been cut by electric bicycles running at very high speed – certainly privacy – well over 20 km/h. We need to get back that security on the pavements like many in Oslo, over 80 pst. in the opinion polls, are requested. I would also like to mention that the Oslo police district in its consultation opinion on the new rules says that if we do not solve this by walking paths and pavements, we have not solved the problem. They proposed the classification of electric bicycles as vehicles, but at the same time they take the intermediate point that electric bicycles should be able to be used in bicycle fields, bicycle paths and that type, and also in combined bicycle/walking routes. It's not just to send them out on the road, which the Minister of Transport was in his post. If it had been possible for the Minister of Transport to say something about this now, it would have been useful for the second part of the proposal, where this issue remains.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1436	The last thing Jan Bøhler brought up, I very much agree with him. It's not just to send them out in the usual way, and then you've solved the problem. I think you'll soon see that we're going to have major challenges. If everyone's going out and driving with all the other road users in the center, I think it might be a challenge. The debate here is quite similar to the debate out there, and I have a great deal of understanding that many are concerned, and I think some action needs to be taken. But I also feel that there is an industry where most, if not all, are quite busy trying to be serious, try to fix it in a good way. Initiatives have been taken, including by industry, to find good solutions. When I hear some representatives at this pulpit say it's a huge problem, that iron scrap is scattered around, it's dragging it pretty far. It makes this debate even more polarized — a bit as it is out there. When you know that there are action groups trying to put the bikes in the most bad light by traveling around and placing them so that they are to the detriment of people, this debate doesn't make it easier. As the representative Johnsen was talking about: someone said that it has gone through the Storting quickly, that it has been a fast legal work. For someone who is happy that things are going fast, it's not necessarily wrong, but it's maybe other things we should rather use that efficiency on than this one – not because I don't understand any of the things that come here, but because there's already a lot of work to clean up. The Council of State gave a little account of that, too. The Council of State says they haven't seen the same challenge with electric bicycles. I don't think that's very unnatural, it's almost a bit like Segway. When we said yes to Segway – I know a lot about it, because I was the State Secretary when we made sure to give permission to it – I think it was 51 or 52 hearing replies. Everyone was negative, except for two, and it was the two who were going to sell it – not so very strange. But a hearing response said it would flood through Segway's around the pavement and everywhere. It didn't quite turn out like that. But of course, we didn't see the full extent. Electric bicycles may be what came after re-regulation and made it a little easier. I hope and believe it has come to be, and that the things that have already been done will make it easier and reduce the level of conflict. That's what's important. I believe that one of the biggest decisions today is to turn on even a little more and be even tougher, which you might not have had to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1449	The representative of Tor André Johnsen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1454	The representative, Andersen, is concerned about why not give the municipalities the opportunity to clean up. There we actually agree, but what we do not agree on is clearly the understanding of what the Ministry of Transport and the Road Administration has already introduced. Because they give the municipalities the opportunity to clean up. That's the whole point. That requirement has been met. It will be possible to issue fines, parking areas, prohibitive zones, speed limits. Councillor Hareide himself has been on speed control to take electric bicycles. I whipped a little bit when I read that notice, but it's actually already controlling the speed of electric bicycles. Then I react a little to the post to Bøhler that you can get electric bikes that go for 100 km/h. That's what I think of as a scare-mongering propaganda. I have spent some time during the debate trying to find out where to buy it, and I find no one who has or has heard about it. So I'm taking a great distance from those horror pictures. But that someone is running fast, I have registered. They're probably going for 30 km/h. I also sometimes feel that someone is killing me. Obviously, if you go at 6 km/h and someone comes all the way up to 30 km/h, it feels like fast, but it's not 100 km/h.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1463	I would like to thank you for a good debate and respond to some of the challenges that have arisen in this debate. Firstly, I would say that regulation is not a negative thing if we wanted the electric car cycles to work well in the cityscape and on our roads. It'll only be an advantage to have a good regulation. I want to say, and it might not be a very precise comparison, that we have regulation of the toll project and where we can set up bombs. We can't set them up all over the place. It's a code, and I think the Progress Party is happy about that. It might not be a very good comparison, but we need order, and we've seen that we need more order in connection with this problem. Then the representative takes Bøhler up the issue close to Oslo City. What this regulation here is dealing with is that there can be urban areas that can have a ban on electric bicycles. It may also be urban areas with less rapidity than 20 km/h. It could be down to 10 km/h, it could be 6 km/h, where there are good grounds for it. But what we've said is that we want that kind of area to be the sign, so it's clear where it is, and that it should be followed up. I would say that I am somewhat skeptical to say that municipalities can have a ban on using them on pavements, because there is more to the traffic code. Then I believe that the pressure on the pavement has become significantly greater with electric bicycles. We might consider this, and I therefore believe that a reclassification is a little too simple a problem to address in June 2021. But that we have to keep working on this, I'm not in doubt about it. Norway is one of the few countries that has the opening for bicycles in general on the pavement, and we see that the pressure has increased. I don't want to change it now, but I think it's natural that we follow it up further. Karin Andersen points out that we need to have quality. We know that it's a challenge that many of these bicycles unfortunately have a very short life span. We are concerned that this is a climate-friendly and environmentally friendly way of acting in the cityscape, and then it must also be efficient with the structure we have. There are also leads here to follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1476	The representative Jan Bøhler has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1482	I do not want to help the representative Johnsen from the Progress Party to buy an electric bike that runs for 100 km/h, but I easily found an ad that says: 100 km/h, ‘illegal’ in brackets, and 20 km/h legally, for 17 999 kroner. I will not mention the company, but it was easy to find. I don't help him, but I have this, if others want to see it! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1489	Often there are others who come into the debate of the Transport Committee, but now we are the ones who have crashed into the debate of the Municipal and Administrative Committee. I want to say at least the last thing I think you should bring with me. I feel that maybe there's almost 10-1 here in the hall; they're the ones that are very critical, and then maybe there's one on the side that thinks this is a very good means of transport. One should say that there are quite a few who think it is, because if it hadn't been so that this was a means of transport that people would have, there wouldn't have been any rental, and then there wouldn't have been anyone who had driven it. So I also think it's an important point to include. So there's no doubt that when it's renting, the conditions may be a little different than if it was your own, cf. that the Council of State was in with electric bicycles versus electric bicycles. I believe that controls are important. It has now been seen that some checks have been carried out. I think that's good, because I think that in the moment you've done it sometimes, things are going to happen. I'm not going to spend more time now, but just say that I think it's been a fun and enjoyable debate. And then to Bohemia: I think we're going to stick to those who go in 20, and that's what rental companies are going to do. So it's probably always going to be like that there's some that are trimmering cars, there's some that are trimmering mopeds, and there's some that are going to trim electric bikes. That's it. But the best thing will be if people follow the rules that are there. I also hope that those who drive – whether on an electric bicycle or using other means of transportation – will take the responsibility they have under the law to deal with other road users and be careful and cautious in the traffic. I think we have very good training in Norway, but maybe we need even a little better training. When you're driving an electric bike, you have to act in a proper and proper way, because there are others you have to take into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1504	The last representative Hoksrud said now, I fully agree. I'm glad that's being said, because this is about us having to take account of each other. There has been some comparison with electric bicycles in the debate. I think the use of electric bicycles and electric bicycles is very different. The interface -- well, it's called -- I think it's quite different. That's why you haven't had the same effects of electric bicycles that you've had from electric bicycles. The reason I took the word, was to clarify that what this law regulates, is renting, it's renting. Several of the themes that have been raised in the debate now are not relevant to this area. Everything about private bicycles must be regulated by traffic rules and instruments other than those contained in this law. But I'm absolutely sure that when we put in place good regulation for this, it could work much better, to please more people and to less distress for many. I hope the whole Storting agrees with me that those who are needed today out of the public room because they, for example, are. have reduced mobility – blindness, low vision, wheelchair use or other means need to use the space on the pavement in a calm and peaceful way in order to be able to move – have the same right to use the urban area as those standing on a kicking bike. It's our responsibility to make sure it gets like this, and at least we're trying to take some steps with this law. The Ministry of Transport has taken some steps with what they have done, and then we will evaluate it and see what measures are needed to ensure that this is effective for all road users.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1513	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1530	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up to the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1537	Now we've been discussing for several hours that it's so close in the cities because people run electric bikes and walk on the pavement. Then we're going to discuss a case that's about there being some guidance that one should keep going further, and that one has equipped the state administrators with authority to guide the municipalities to have an extra fortification, and that people should preferably not be scattered either in municipalities or in cities. It looked at things a little bit in perspective. I would also like to begin by thanking the representatives of the Central Party who have made an important point. They have put forward three proposals. Two of them are supported by the Progress Party, in a little special collaboration where we don't have multiples in the hall. Third, they get support from the Workers' Party and SV, and they don't have multiples in the hall either. So none of these proposals lead to any decision, but they are still raising an important and useful debate. I just want to make sure that the different parties want to do their best for their vision, so I want to use the last minutes of the Progress Party's reflections. The reason why we're supporting the Center Party is that we're some of the people who have too many problems for municipalities when it comes to making sure that people are allowed to live in the entire municipality. The last time came in my constituency, Björnfjorden, a document on several dozen pages from the State administrator when they discussed the municipality plan, where he took these signals and wanted one to have centralisation in the municipality, that one should not be allowed to bulge. A lot of people who want to stay spread, have a special desire to move right to their homes, to their homes, build where parents are, maybe, where they have a connection. If they are not allowed to do so, the option is not to move them to the municipality center or to a collective node in the vicinity. Then they might move to a completely different place, or they'll give up the dream of busting out right where they want to. That's why we have equipped local democracy with the possibility of being planning authority, just to be able to weigh such different concerns and make sure that there is a growth in the entire municipality, and that it is possible to build and live there. We believe that the guidelines are too strict, but also that their practice is too strict. The evidence is that of all the complaints in connection with plans that end up with the municipal minister, local democracy is supported by the vast majority under the blue government, while under the red-green it was the opposite. It tells us that the state administrators are too strict and that they administer that code too strictly. Therefore, in the view of the Progress Party, it would have been in place to be on the proposal of the Centre Party, so that we give a clear signal that local democracy will be allowed to allow people to build and live where they want, and local democracy will be allowed to have growth and development in the entire municipality, not just close to the collective nodal point. With that, I take up the suggestions that the Progress Party is on. So I understand that some of them have already been voted on, and so we can't take them up in this session. But we will certainly come back to them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1552	The representative Helge André Njåstad has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1557	According to the Planning and Building Act, the municipalities are in the driver’s seat and are responsible for the social and spatial planning of their respective municipalities. Municipalities have considerable freedom and responsibility to facilitate adequate housing in their municipalities. In order to ensure sustainable and forward-looking land development, it is important that the pattern of development and transport systems be coordinated so that transport needs can be reduced and that climate-friendly and environmentally friendly modes of transport are facilitated. In an overall climate sense, it is important to ensure effective land use throughout the country and to achieve climate objectives, new areas of housing need to bring citizens effectively and climate-friendly to and from work. New residential areas need to take account of climate and nature considerations in terms of development, transport solutions, material use and reuse solutions. In large cities where many people live, are built a lot and transported a lot, the guidelines have a great impact on the climate. In scattered municipalities with few inhabitants, negative population development and a housing market in stagnation, there is a risk that government planning guidelines will prevent population growth. The Demographics Committee points out, among other things: the need to put in place state measures to improve housing markets in rural areas. Government planning guidelines cannot be so strict that municipalities with population decline or a housing market in stagnation are not allowed to build attractive dwellings. It is therefore important that the planning guidelines are well adapted to regional and local conditions, as provided for in current legislation. At the same time, it is important to know the impact of these plan guidelines on growth across the country. These guidelines have worked for a while, and it is time to acquire knowledge. That is why we are promoting proposals in the Chamber today, where we are asking the government to evaluate the state planning guidelines and the impact they have had on the development of growth throughout the country. With this I address the Labour Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1570	Then the representative Siri Gåsemyr Staalese has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1575	There are a lot of things to do in spatial planning. It is the responsibility of the municipalities to implement spatial planning according to the planning and building laws. Local plans shall be drawn up in accordance with senior plans and guidelines, and shall, at the same time, maintain state interests. The State planning lines for coordinating housing, land and transport planning will help to concrete and highlight national policies in the development of resilient cities and agglomerations. They shall facilitate value creation and industrial development and promote health, environment and quality of life throughout the country. The planning guidelines are currently aimed specifically at ensuring efficient land use and adequate housing construction in areas under housing market pressure and where good regional solutions are needed across municipal boundaries. I have thus a challenge to see that these policy lines will have some special impact in areas far away from the press area and in areas that do not share the common construction and labour market in a region. It is stated in point 4.3 of the planning lines that local authorities can assess a more differentiated build pattern where necessary to increase the attractiveness of construction. However, it must be recognised that the practice of state administrators and the government’s decisions in several cases show that some state administrators read the planning lines in the centralising direction. Otherwise, the government would not have supported the municipalities. But this doesn't mean that the planning guidelines themselves are wrong. The government follows its own planning guidelines with both evaluations and adjustments if needed. Although the current policy lines were carried in the pen by a State Secretary from the Progress Party, it is nevertheless such that in the land and plan items that end up on the government's table, the statistics are clear in the favour of the municipalities in the counterclaims. It is worth noting that the municipalities are getting more support now than when the central party itself had the municipal minister. So it is important to realize that the protection of cultivated soil is today clarified in the planning lines, because it is necessary to take care of good food, but also soil protection must be balanced against the needs of society. This is particularly true in the central urban areas, where the expansion pressure is highest. Here it is particularly important to achieve a concrete balance of interest between efficient land use, node development and soil protection. So it is important to note that since the Progress Party disappeared out of the Ministry of Local Affairs and the Right was on its own, there are several things that have had a positive outcome because a thorough compromise has been worked out, especially where the development and soil protection interests have been conflicting. In this way, it should be in the interest of both the Party of Advancement and the Central Party that the Ministry of Local Affairs was run by the Right forever.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1592	It's tempting to say that if things go better for every time someone in today's government disappears from the government, we'll hope it goes quite well for the harvest. It seems many times that all the parties in this room agree that we should have residency throughout the country, but unfortunately the same assembly has passed laws and rules that prevent municipalities from developing their communities as they wish. Government planning guidelines virtually prohibit expansion where there is no collective provision. It is in stark contrast to the wishes of the local government. The municipalities receive applications from young people who want to move to the municipality. They want to settle on the outskirts of the municipality, and they have a view of an empty area. The local government applauds and says yes unanimously, but unfortunately the state administrator comes with objections and puts his foot down. This is not just a problem in rural municipalities that are affected by population decline, as the majority of the committee suggests. There is also a problem in many growth municipalities around the cities, which also have branches that are at risk of being depopulated. This is a problem in all areas that have been scattered. If we're going to stop this centralization, we have to change the plan guidelines, and we have to make sure that young people move to settle where they want to. The municipalities have to get power back. Scattered housing is a prerequisite for us to have living communities in all branches, and is a prerequisite for us to use our natural resources. The answer is quite clear: they don't want to live in a residential area; they want an empty space with light and air around them, and they want to live near nature. Many will, for example, have a large plot, so that you can have hens and a cock that goes in the backyard without the neighbor complaining about getting weight at 0 p.m. 5th@item: inlistbox My home municipality, Holtålen, has conducted a study that shows that the most important thing for young people is that they have to choose how to live themselves. As many people said, if I first live in a residential area, I might as well live in a residential area at Kattem in Trondheim as moving back to my town in the Holtålen. Ten to fifteen years ago, we regulated large 30-metre plots to have an offer for those who want to have it like this, and last night, the local government took a decision to start renovating the plots, because now it is ultimately interested buyers. If we had made that decision about that residential area today, it would have been immediately stopped by the State Manager. That is why we are now promoting proposals to look at these policy guidelines and do something with them, so that we can facilitate development across the country. I am extremely disappointed that it is only the Progress Party that supports these proposals. In fact, I had hoped that we would get a connection from a total accumulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1609	Will the representative, Mr Greni, address the proposal of the Central Party and the SV?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1614	I will.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1619	The representative, Heidi Greni, then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1625	The policy guidelines are important. It is because more transport needs to be taken through collective, bicycle and forward-looking. But too strict rules can create challenges in parts of the country where public transport in any case cannot replace a private car, and where there is inalienable food land that can be built down if the rules are too rigid. People like to live where there is good food, and it is often there – if there is a train – that the train stops, or that there are junctions that are considered a collective node. So here's a lot of considerations to take better care of in the future than what we can do today. In districts, these plan guidelines will mean less in terms of climate, but very much in terms of soil protection, biodiversity and natural and land losses. SV believes that there may be a need for the guidelines to open up more opportunities for differentiation between different parts of the country, based on different local assumptions, but we are voting in favour of the proposal to take better care of food soils in these processes, because that's what at least I'm experiencing is what's most threatened when you're not allowed to build a little outside the center. Then it ends up on the food ground near the center, and that issue seems to me to have been far too delicately addressed until now. It is important to be able to facilitate housing in urban areas, at public nodes, but it is also important to be able to facilitate housing elsewhere in some districts. I don't know if I'm going to recommend 30-dimensional plots, but there's opportunities to look at doing this somewhere else than it has to be where there's really a need to continue to achieve climate results. Nor can I fail to mention the matter we have dealt with before today, which is about water and sewerage, which can give quite major challenges to municipalities if you skip too much on this and the new technology that allows you to do this without excessive costs is not in place. So we're very concerned that the rules are also tightened in terms of soil protection with respect to these plan guidelines.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1636	The State planning guidelines for coordinated housing, land and transport planning shall contribute to ensuring efficient land use and adequate housing in areas under housing market pressure. In order to achieve sustainable and forward-looking land development, it is important to coordinate development patterns and transport systems. It reduces the need to build up agricultural areas and areas with a high degree of carbon bonding. I agree with the rapporteurs that soil protection is a central and important consideration of land policy. At the same time, I believe that the consideration of soil protection is well taken into account in the State planning guidelines for coordinated housing, land and transport planning. In particular, I would like to refer to point 5.3 of the Guidelines, which says that the potential for densification should be identified when considering the re-disposal of valuable cultivated or arable land. Plan practice also shows that the planning guidelines currently provide a good framework for the necessary balances, including the balances between soil protection, effective development patterns and the needs of municipalities, as addressed by the representatives in the proposal. Municipalities have considerable freedom and responsibility to facilitate adequate housing through good social and spatial planning. Government planning guidelines will contribute to a good and productive interaction between municipalities, states and builders in this work, so that we can achieve growth and development in a sustainable way in municipalities across the country. For areas with low expansion pressures, point 4.3 of the guidelines indicates that local authorities can assess a more differentiated housing pattern where necessary to increase the attractiveness of settlement. This is particularly evident in the review of the scope of the policy. The implementation of the guidelines shall be differentiated and adapted to regional and local conditions. I therefore believe that the committee's recommendation to the Stortinget to ask the government to ensure that the planning guidelines are implemented in a manner that is appropriate to regional and local conditions. I can also assure you that this is something that the Ministry of Local Affairs and the Ministry of Modernisation emphasises in the governance dialogue with the State Manager. All in all, I believe that the state planning guidelines today take care of the concerns raised by the proposers in a good and balanced manner, and I therefore see no need to make changes to the state planning guidelines.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1649	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1654	I note that once again the Council of State believes that we in the Committee have promoted a redundant proposal that has been taken care of in today's planning guidelines. However, I have a simple question for the Council of State: one of the proposals says that the planning guidelines should be designed so that ‘municipalities with scattered areas are not forced to centralise settlements and other developments within the municipality’, and so that the municipalities themselves can determine the extent to which scattered housing should be allowed. Why, then, does the Council of State consider this proposal to be incorrect?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1659	I do not share the representative's description that the guidelines force scattered municipalities to centralise the settlement. Under the Planning and Building Act, the municipalities are in charge of community and spatial planning in their respective municipalities. Municipalities have considerable freedom and responsibility to facilitate adequate housing in their municipalities. The effectiveness of land policies also applies in scattered municipalities. It reduces the need to reduce the agricultural area and the area with a high degree of carbon bonding. I believe that within the guidelines we have today, there is no basis for the description given by the representative, that the municipalities are forced to centralise the settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1668	It could be the only positive ringing effect of the pandemic – in addition to perhaps becoming more digitally competent – that more people express their desire to move out of town, want to stay a little less crowded, and it's recommended at the warmest. But with today's guidelines, as most municipalities interpret and use them, it says, among other things. that in municipalities having regional cities, a minimum of 90 pst. the growth of dwellings and jobs takes place in priority areas, i.e. centres. I'm of that opinion, and there are many municipalities that believe the same thing, that it's not well-placed enough to move in the village if it involves building new ones. At the same time, many believe that there should be room and opportunity in Norway. Is this not a real issue for the Council of State? Am I the only one who's got it wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1675	I believe that both smaller cities and larger cities should develop from the inside out. That, I believe, is a prerequisite for developing living cities and agglomerations. It has not been said that the planning guidelines are leading to the fact that it is not possible to have a residence elsewhere in the municipality. I happen to have these matters decided with me. Then there are some considerations that always weigh heavily, e.g. soil protection. But we largely support the municipalities in these matters – much more so than when the Senterpartiet crashed. We do that because it's the municipalities that have the shoe on, it's the ones that know where it prints, and that's the best way to make these decisions within the national framework we've put.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1680	The Council of State said something like that in its speech that there was an opportunity to practice these guidelines geographically adapted and to have a different practice in pig-grown areas, if I did not misunderstand. It is in quite a contrast to a round I carried out with all my localities in January and February. All except Trondheim in my constituency, Sør-Trøndelag, reported that the biggest challenge was objections from the State Manager when they wanted to develop district branches. It even applied to press communities next to Trondheim, which had branches that were about to be depopulated. People wouldn't take over and drive the earth because they weren't allowed to build in that area. So there must be something in the dialogue with the state administrators that has failed if it's now that the practice around the country is that you actually get no if it's not a collective offer. In my municipality, there is in principle no collective offer if it doesn't fit with the school leave. Does the Council of State think that we need to do something about this in order to make sure that we live in the whole country?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1687	There's nothing to suggest that there are more conflicts around these issues now than what it was when the Center Party put in power. It is the top of the icebergs of these cases that come to me, because most of the cases are resolved locally in a good way and with strong participation from the municipalities, which should and should be heard. Then I've been very clear that in the municipalities that are pig-grown initially, you have to practice these plan guidelines based on local conditions. So there may be individual cases where, for example: want to build on cultivated land, where the State Manager is clear that we do not want it. Here there are often different opinions locally and centrally, where you can be more likely locally to build cultivated land than what we are centrally willing to accept, because we have to take care of the food soil as a national resource, both now and in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1694	A response I have received from other states in the country is that the peasant teams report that the state administrators have now started a new practice in which they review the municipality's decision to build an operational building on their own farm. The State administrator enters and requires a regulatory plan to be drawn up in order to build up manure foam on its own farm. Then it would be nice for some neighbors who have made a complaint because they are afraid that the neighborhood will have a bad time, etc. Then it would have been unanimous in the municipality that the construction business is of course completely curative, and then the State Manager comes in and puts an end to it. Does the Council of State mean that this is the way the Governor and the State should act towards the Municipality?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1699	I think the representative understands that it is absolutely impossible for me to comment on the kind of individual matter, where the only description I have is the one that the representative now gives me. If the representative wants to deal with a specific matter, she can do it, but then perhaps this replacement is not what will give the most informative answer to the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1705	I think the council took a little light on the loss of food soil in their post, and said that this was under good control, and that this went very well. The SSB now provided a new statistics in May showing that in 2020 10 400 cover land was re-disposaled for non-agricultural purposes. 90 pst. of this was regulated by the Law on Planning and Building, and then it was the state that regulated the rest, I guess. This is about what we're discussing today, because when we say that you're going to keep building tight around some of the small towns and the medium-sized cities, it's like where the food is. It's the municipalities that make these decisions. The problem here is that it's hard to take it back again. Once it's built down, it's destroyed. Does the Council of State mean that the law today protects the food earth well? We can end up with almost nothing left if we keep doing what we're doing now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1710	I have to say I don't quite know the numbers that the representative refers to. The state objective is to be less than 4000 deer in the re-disposal of food soils. It's just tightened up to 3,000 pieces. But it does not include land that agriculture even disposes of. So the number that the representative refers to must be including the land that agriculture itself has redispatched. In terms of the state's objectives, we're on track for the goals we've set in Stortingen, and we've strengthened that goal. I stressed in my reply to former representatives the importance of food soil as an important reason why we have to have these planning guidelines. Because we have to take care of food soils, and we have to make sure that there is not too much food soil in Norway, because it is important for the future that it is cared for.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1719	The problem here is that some of the statistics you have operated on in this area have not included everything that has been built-in. So that's the SSB's number I'm now referring to. It's true that you've reduced the number of re-disposals. The last thing was that until last year, I think, you were able to see a downward trend, but then it's turned around again. The problem here is the accumulation, that you build something down, you build something more, and then you build something more. It's adding up to each other. If it had only been what was redispatched for a year, this would not have been a problem. Because we have so little food soil in this country, I get to ask again if the Council of State believes there is any reason to look at it in terms of these plan guidelines as well, and that the state, through its objections, has to preserve soil protection better than with the volume of disposal we see now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1726	In cooperation with agriculture, it is quite clear that we need to limit the re-disposal of food land as much as possible. However, it will sometimes be necessary to take some food soil to large national projects, for example: It may not be possible to exclude from railway development or other nationally important projects. But we fully agree that it has to be kept to a minimum. That is why we have also tightened the target of how much soil to allow for redisposal each year. It's not a goal we're going to strive to keep as close as possible to, it's a maximum limit for what we're going to allow redisposed every year. I see here that on the one hand there are some representatives who believe that the state is too strict and gives too many leadership, and on the other hand they believe that the state is doing too little. I think these plan guidelines are really quite well in line with the challenges that society is trying to solve.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1733	The cord shift is over. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1740	It is incredibly important that we make it possible for people to live, work and live good lives throughout Norway. In order for one to have growth and development throughout Norway, one needs to facilitate the situation through planning policy. I record that representatives from the government parties, representatives from the Workers' Party and the State Council say that one is concerned that this should be possible. However, when we propose from the Centre Party that one should enter it as a clear and general objective in the state planning guidelines – that one should contribute to growth and development throughout Norway, that one should have a balanced development between the city and the city, and that one should not least facilitate the development of areas with weak population development today – then the government parties vote it down. Unfortunately, the Labour Party and SV also vote down. I'm very surprised and very disappointed in it. On the contrary, one leaves behind in the state planning guidelines that one should contribute to compact cities and agglomerations. Government planning guidelines have become a break for strong centralisation today. They create major challenges in the most central areas related to the nodes, with pressure on the degradation of food and recreational areas, while not creating sufficient room for growth and development in very many communities around Norway. One can only go to municipalities, for example, in what I represent, Akershus. Let's look at Aurskog-Høland: there's the bear's hose defined as a node, there's 80 pst. the crop must be. At the same time, Aurskog-Høland is composed of five former municipalities with a number of agglomerations around the municipality, Setskog, Rømskog, Aursmoen, Momoen and Hemnes, all of which need room for development. There's exactly the state plan guidelines and how they're being practiced, a major obstacle to contributing to it. This may help to prevent one from maintaining well-functioning infrastructure. It will result in the closure of schools and kindergartens. Similarly, you see in a number of municipalities around Akershus. In Enebakk, the administrative centre of Kirkebygda does not have room for development because it is not defined as a node – or Fagerstrand in the municipality of Nesodden. The municipality after the municipality gives the same feedback. It does not help if the State Councils are in Stortinget with completed speech points saying that everything is very well around Norway, when the municipalities that live in practical reality see what kind of coerciveness these planning guidelines are and that there is a need for change. I find it disappointing that the bulk of the population does not vote for our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1753	When we see that the plan guidelines don't work, when all the district councils report again and again that this doesn't work for their municipality because they're centralized, and all the parties now go out in the election campaign and are so interested in district policy, one actually has to do something about what doesn't work. There are also guidelines that we introduced in our government, which are part of this, but when one realizes that this has such enormous adverse effects, one actually has to put in place some strong measures to reverse this centralisation. In his reply to the Council of State, he could not answer me on the specific matter. I have tried earlier in the Questionnaire to ask about the same without getting an answer. I don't know if I have to use the coffee cup strategy to clarify this, but it wasn't the one thing I was concerned about, it was more in relation to e.g.. The proposals of the Progress Party in this matter, which they have not promoted, that the Storting should ask the Government to propose that it is not possible to raise objections to a plan within the current planning purpose. So the case is that it is planned for agriculture, the municipality says yes to an operating building, and the State administrator objects because they have to have a regulatory plan, among other things. to clarify odor problems. We don't have to go alone, by the way, there are many things, but it's very challenging for the community. In Trøndelag we have had an example where housing has been refused on a small residential area with four to five plots in a small branch, where they will stimulate increased housing to take care of agriculture, so that people will move back there, etc. So the state manager says no, we're just going to have a building where the kids can go to school. What would Norwegian district councils look like if you were only to put housing fields where you could go to school? It is completely impossible to see what Norway would look like if such demands were made. We have to make it possible for people to live where they want to, and the Norman Committee is very clear that young people will not move back to a municipal center or a district town. They want to move back to something other than what they moved from, and they want the opportunity to settle more rurally. Finally, of course, the Central Party will support proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and SV, subsidiaryly, where we ask for an evaluation of the state planning guidelines, because we realize that only the Progress Party supports us in this matter, and only those who see that this overrun of the municipalities cannot continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1766	I think it's important not to lose sight of the fact that these plan guidelines are designed to provide very important considerations. It's kind of not something you've invented to be bad. But they seem very strange to me, and I also have examples that where you have population growth and you need new residential areas and you want to put them close to the nodal point, it's built up food land. We think that could be a more dangerous loss than building a residential area where people can drive a car to the center, if it's now 5 km. That's not where you take the big climate gains, to say it like that. They are taken where there are large population concentrations, where it is important that we now continue and add up to public transport etc., so that it goes well. I've seen this also in the area where I live, where the pressure on the earth is enormous, and that's why I'm very concerned about this. But I also have to say that there is a need to be concerned with natural land losses and biodiversity when you open up in order to build very widely. There is another important aspect that needs to be weighed in this, and it also needs to be weighed against what we discussed before today, namely how to provide good water and sewerage solutions for these homes, whether they are residential areas or individual dwellings, and that it also needs to be handled in a good way in the future. That's why we think this should be evaluated now, so we'll see if it's possible to differentiate this more than today. We don't disagree with the Center Party in it, but we're not willing to celebrate that here the soil protection needs to be reinforced. We also have no more nature to lose, so we have to do this in a wise and sensible way, which, of course, preserves, as far as there is advice, the ability of people to build and live where they want to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1773	To the representative Gülsvik: As far as I remember from Aurskog-Høland and the matter I had on my table, it is such that the lead about that 80 pst. the growth shall come in the Bear's Serpent, come from the regional plan, not from the State Manager. It is a regional plan that Aurskog-Høland itself has been involved in making. I said yes to a more widespread development of housing in Aurskog-Høland than the Central Party rapporteur in Aurskog-Høland himself went in for, but I refused to build up food soil in the Bear's Serpent, despite the fact that the Center Party had gone in for it. I think that was the right priority, because we have to see these state planning guidelines in the light of just local conditions. It is quite right that it makes sense then to be able to build up several smaller agglomerations in Aurskog-Høland, which already have several centres. I also think it's right to say no to building down food soil even if it's in the bear's hose, which is defined as a growing area. I mean, the Center Party is basically bombing as they go towards compact towns and towns. If there's some young people's demand, it's just urban qualities also in small places. If we are to be able to get young people to stay, to come back and attract more, we need to be able to offer urban qualities even in small places, and it needs to have a bearing on how we plan and develop small communities. If you don't set up an urban center even in small places, you don't get the amount of service that young people want, and then they move to a different place. Everything is related to everything, as another once said, and I think it's worth looking at a little bit completely at just how we're going to attract more people in scattered areas. This may be a good time, in the wake of a pandemic, how many want more space, but perhaps will not give up the urban qualities they have today. So I'm going to leave to the Center Party to agree with its potential government partner, the Workers' Party, which I now notice goes in for spatial neutrality. It will be interesting to see how the two batches agree on a sensible land policy both locally and nationally based.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1786	First, to the representative, Andersen. In this case, SV and the Center Party agree that the need to take care of the food soil must be weighed more heavily. We stand together in proposals that it must be included as an overall goal, not only in the state planning guidelines, but also in other government leaders, so that we ensure that we take care of the food soil and prevent the extensive degradation of the food soil that unfortunately continues to happen. But at the same time, one must also ensure that one has government planning guidelines that include a general objective of contributing to the growth and development of the whole of Norway, where one is to ensure balanced urban and urban development, and where one not least facilitates more development in areas with a negative population development today. There are just such general government leaders as it is important to take into account, rather than the leaders to which the Council of State has now once again referred, that one should have compact cities and agglomerations. I live in one of the places in Akershus that are defined as a hub – Southumsand. In the case of youth and urban quality: it is not so terribly attractive for young people to clump apartments together at a price of between 8 and 10 million. kr, which they do not have the chance in the sea to buy anyway, because one should have so-called compact cities and agglomerations. It is much more important to have a balanced development that will enable young people to find a good place to live and good housing quality, in good open spaces, while at the same time ensuring a good development of the community. This also applies to Oslo, for that matter, for example in Nydalen, where my grandfather worked his whole working life, and where my niece is now growing up. There is a great struggle to take care of open spaces when building in that area, because one has such a powerful centralization around some areas of growth, around some nodal points, instead of looking at how to exploit better other areas of Oslo, such as the Gjersrud-Stensrud area or other areas of the municipalities and the surrounding districts, as in Akershus. We must think completely about how we develop societies, so that there will be good communities with good air and good open spaces in the most central areas, and that at the same time there will be room for development throughout the country. That is what our proposal facilitates.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1797	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1815	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, up to three rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up to the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1822	A broad majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Progress Party, supports the Government's proposal to amend the temporary laws on adaptations to the Introduction Act and the Integration Act to address the consequences of the covid-19 pandemic. The government’s proposal is to extend the period for the introduction programme and access to Norwegian training by up to four months if the individual needs it in order to get a job or education. The background for this is, of course, that we want to defuse, or at least to defuse something for, the negative consequences that the covid-19 pandemic has produced. We've had a strong increase in unemployment, and there's little doubt that the ones we're talking about here are the ones that are most often at the back of the line, and that are hardest hit by the situation we're in. In this way, it should just be lacking that we do not set up and try to adapt in the best possible way. And then we'll see what happens in the future, when the wheels hopefully get started again. But there will probably also be post-effects of this, and I think there will be reason to follow up on how development becomes in business, and how it may also have to come back later with the necessary measures to improve the situation of those we are talking about. So in this round, it's about the adjustment where we're expanding for four months for what I said. There is a broad majority in the Storting that supports this, and I am pleased about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1833	The size has dealt with a number of similar cases, extending the right to introduction and language training. Everyone understands the intent of this, and the intention can be good, but neither does the Progress Party support this time to extend the scheme, because we fear that this can contribute to a kind of accumulation of integration challenges and unemployment hidden from statistics elsewhere. The introduction scheme is not intended to be a scheme for people who have not received work after the introduction programme shall end up in. We have other ordinary arrangements for them. There are a lot of people who fall out of work because of the covid-19 situation, and it's better that we get the most into the ordinary arrangements, so that they can be properly captured. The party of progress fears that the result will be an unmanageable situation if we only fill up more and more in a scheme that is not meant to solve the problem that we have now received. That is why we are opposed to this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1842	SV supports the legislative proposal, but we have a proposal that is based on the hearing opinions that have come during the examination of the case, including: UDI believes that the extension is not consistent with the long-term impact of the pandemic. There is, of course, a somewhat sharp contradiction between that representative from the Progress Party and said instead. It is a major influence, and I very much agree with the analysis the rapporteur had in the matter, about who is at the back of the line. It's not that more people get a job if they get less, nor is it that the ordinary actions over Nav show some very glittering results, so we think it's better that they get the opportunity to complete what was an original program. That's what this is all about, completing and completing the training that's meant to be done. We therefore propose that we ask the government to ‘open up to extend the possibility of an extended introduction programme and to extend Norwegian training more than four months after an individual assessment, in order to address the consequences of an outbreak of covid-19’. Here, the situation can be very different both in municipalities and not least on an individual basis, considering how this has turned out. I wish the Storting could be part of such an opening, because I think it would be smart if you were concerned that people were going to do this with good results and get on with their lives. I am promoting our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1853	The representative, Karin Andersen, has drawn up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1858	Although we are now, hopefully, in the process of asking for the pandemic, there are still challenges with infectious diseases and high levels of unemployment. The Government has therefore proposed funds for a third package of measures in the field of integration. The action package continues, inter alia: up to four months of extended Norwegian training and extended programme time for participants in the final phase of the introduction programme. These measures require legislative changes and the legislative proposal requires funds to be allocated. I suggest that participants who are currently in the final phase of the introduction programme be given the right to extended programming time by up to four months if they need to expand in order to get into work or education. I also propose that participants who finish training in Norwegian and social literacy this autumn be entitled to Norwegian extended training for up to four months. I also see the need to simplify legislative work if further action packages are needed in the field of integration, because there I agree with both the representative Andersen and the representative Thommessen: further enlargements may soon be needed. Therefore, we are also asking for authority to provide for a regulation to extend the arrangements under the Introduction Act and the Integration Act in the context of the Storing Decision on measures to remedy the consequences of covid-19 outbreaks. The Ministry may not adopt any regulation which goes beyond the scope of the measures adopted in the Storting and may not adopt any regulation restricting the rights of the participants. New arrivals are among those who may face major challenges in getting into work as a result of the pandemic. With the measures in the integration packages, there are several who can increase their skills and improve their chances of getting into work or training. Just work and education have been the main concern of the government through the crisis, and it also shows this case. I am pleased that the majority of the committee supports the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1871	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1889	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up to the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1896	I refer to the SV representative's proposal to evacuate several asylum seekers from Greece in 2021 and to strengthen assistance to Bosnia. The document makes the following proposals: ‘1. The majority ask the government to relieve Greece and start to pick up another 750 refugees from the Greek islands for relocation in Norway. 2nd@item: inlistbox The government, in cooperation with the UNHCR and the Greek authorities, is asked to select families with children, vulnerable lonely people and others with the greatest need for relocalisation. 3rd@item: inlistbox The government is asking the Government to strengthen assistance to Bosnia and to offer UNHCR in cooperation with the Bosnian authorities to relocate particularly vulnerable refugees to Norway for the treatment of the asylum application here.’ An overall committee shares the concern of the proposers that many asylum seekers both in the Greek islands and in Bosnia live under very difficult conditions. The situation is also serious in many other refugee camps in the world. The Committee believes that the international community has a responsibility to assist beneficiary countries that are under great pressure due to migration, and the Committee agrees that Norway must take part in this responsibility, including: by supporting and building sound reception conditions and a legal asylum process. That's how far I've been speaking as the rapporteur-in-chief. The Labour Party believes that Norway's main priority in refugee and asylum policy should be quota refugees through the UN system. This is how we best ensure that it is the most vulnerable refugees with a real need for protection coming to Norway, and we support a fair and well-organised regime that does not require people to put their lives in the hands of human traffickers. The working party has proposed to increase the number of quota refugees by 500 in both 2020 and 2021. In view of the serious and exceptional situation in Greek refugee camps, we also proposed that the government engage in dialogue with the UN to assess the proportion of this increase that should go to the relocation of asylum seekers from Greece with protection needs. The Workers' Party has also previously proposed to establish its own solidarity with the development budget. This shall contribute to the protection and dignity of humanitarian conditions for people on the run and provide better opportunities for poor host countries in the neighbourhoods to meet the long-term needs of refugees. We have also proposed that the government should present a concrete plan for Norway's contribution to establishing dignity and rights-based reception and asylum procedures in transit countries such as Greece. The Labour Party has thus promoted several proposals related to the themes of the SV representative proposal. Unfortunately, all our proposals have been voted down by the government parties. We will not support the SV's proposals in this case either.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1926	It is easy to become emotionally engaged and influenced by the images and the stories we see and hear. Last few days, we've seen images of the little good that drowned in the English Channel and landed on Karmøy. An entire family had drowned because of flight. It is sad that the world has an asylum system that in itself generates and strongly encourages migration, even though a strict label does not have to travel far and through many countries to protect its own lives. The time has come for the EU and Greece to take up their duties in the driver’s seat and to set up an asylum treatment system that is overdue. The migrant challenges we have seen in the EU, as in Greece and other countries, cannot be solved by these countries alone. The adhoc solutions proposed by the representative proposal are not the answer to the challenges at the EU's external borders. On the contrary, they can work against their purpose and lure even more families with young children into life-threatening refugees. The processes currently underway in the EU for the revision of common asylum legislation are thus uplifting and recognising that temporary solutions do not help. In the debate we have today, if we are to give priority to relieving the EU's external borders in Greece and Bosnia, in addition to what we already have in mind, it is important to bear in mind that Norway has participated voluntarily in the relocalisation programme of the EU. According to the European Commission, only the EU countries Ireland and Malta relocated as many asylum seekers as they were required under the temporary relocalisation scheme in 2015-2016. EEA countries Norway, Switzerland and Liechtenstein participated on a voluntary basis. Norway also contributed to an adhocrelocation from Malta in the summer of 2018. Norway has also received approx. A thousand people whose asylum application would have been dealt with in Greece under the Dublin acquis but who have been dealt with here. During this period, we have also opposed many isolated minor asylum seekers from Greece, and we have opposed several families. In total, we have relieved Greece with around 3 000 migrants since the relocalisation in 2015–2016 started. During this period Norway also has access to EEA funds, materials and personnel in Greece. Sorry, there is no one single solution on a continuous migration pressure. The EU needs internal pan-European solutions that do not send a signal that those who come without a stop-up basis can expect to stay. Europe needs solutions that also allow those who are refused a stay to return to their home countries or to safe transit countries. If the Refugee Convention and the Asylum Institute are to function in the future, it will depend on the functioning of the system so as to provide protection to people who need it and will not be used for other purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1943	In the New Year, 15-month-old Artin landed on Karmøy in Norway. The family originally came from Iran and had traveled through a number of safe countries, but the last trip, from France to England, became very dramatic. It gives us a cruel reminder of what this is all about. It's about life and death for a lot of people. We've built up a system that doesn't work at all, we've built up a system that lures people out on a life-threatening journey. People with no need for protection are lured into clusters. Traffic is governed by criminal gangs who care zero about human life, just about money. Real refugees disappear in the amount of groundless asylum seekers who aim to come to Europe. This is a situation where everyone loses. There are a few who succeed, and the few who are able to give signals to a large majority who try, and who end up in suffering and distress. We have countries on the other side of the Mediterranean that are largely end-stations and accumulations of groundless asylum seekers, which are again exploited by criminal gangs, and also to some extent the authorities. We must put an end to this policy. Norway also has a responsibility to do something about it. Norway has tried to relocate refugees and asylum seekers from Greece and Italy. The result was that pain got worse. The situation in Greece, in the Moria camp, which is much mentioned, was in 2017, after we had brought several thousand people to other European countries, that there were 3,000 in the camp. Some years later, the number increased to about 13 000, and conditions became cruel. There is evidence that the relocalisation policy is flawed and must be terminated immediately. It is surprising, I think, that the majority in this Chamber voted first against the proposals of the Progress Party on similar matters a few weeks ago, and it is surprising that a party like SV repeatedly promotes a policy that builds up under a completely faulty system, which helps to make the situation worse for too many people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1956	The central party shares the concerns of the proposers for asylum seekers, both in the Greek islands and in Bosnia-Herzegovina. There is no doubt that they live under difficult conditions, and that the covid-19 pandemic makes the situation even worse. Unfortunately, these challenges are as great, if not worse, in many of the camps we pick up quota refugees from, for example. in Jordan and Lebanon. The international community has a responsibility to assist those beneficiary countries that are under great pressure, for example: Greece. Norway has to take its share of responsibility in relation to the population, as we do today. Both financially and professionally, we must contribute to providing decent conditions in these camps. Norway has also decided to relocate 50 people from the Greek islands. So we've contributed in relation to the population. The centre party is dedicated to helping as much as possible where they are. It involves assistance in the neighbourhood as well as receiving some of the most vulnerable through the UN ETS. Fortunately, the situation in the Greek islands has improved somewhat in the last year. There has been ongoing work by European countries and Greek authorities to relieve the Greek islands, move people to the mainland and contribute to better reception conditions, and the number of migrants on the islands is now halved. This does not mean that the crisis in Greece is over, or that conditions are good, but at least it has become a little better. Norway has provided significant assistance to Bosnia-Herzegovina for many years. In 2020, our contribution went, among others. for the purchase of the necessary infective equipment to limit the spread of covid-19. Of course, we must continue these contributions. The central party believes that Norway’s immigration policy must be based on providing the best possible assistance where the need is greatest, and we are concerned that the solutions must come after broad conciliation and broad consensus in the Grand Duchy. That is why we initiated the asylum settlement after the crisis in 2015. We believe that concrete clarifications about which camps we are going to pick up refugees from are completely hopeless to grasp the Stortinge after a representative proposal. That question needs to be resolved in the dialogue between the government and UNHCR and should not be a matter for the Storting to decide, because we have no information that will allow us to know where the worst is today. Is it in Lebanon, in Greece, or is it somewhere else? The centre party will therefore not support SV's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1971	If any party here in the Chamber is wondering what to do, and what to choose, they might start by listening to what the United Nations is asking for, and the country that is now sitting with enormous responsibility, asking us. It's helping to relocate more people from Greece. 50 is not enough. It wasn't enough last year, and this year it hasn't decided anything. To those who think we should accept quota refugees, I can tell you that we are not close to accepting the ones we were going to receive last year, nor this year. So there's just excuses for not doing anything. Refugees in Europe are not given the protection and legal security they require and borders are closed. It's not the asylum institution that drives people on the run. It's war in the world. It's persecution in the world. The example that was used here instead is a family that has fled from Iran. I thought this assembly was informed about what kind of government it is in that country, but it's possible you think it's totally okay for everyone. That doesn't mean SV. It is the closed borders and the fact that it is impossible to seek asylum elsewhere, which makes it a market for traffickers. Those who cry crocodile tears over it can do something about the problem and not push refugees who need protection ahead of them in a rather inconvenient argument. Repeatedly, Norway has been asked to help out more in Greece. The situation there is serious, and that is because everyone else has closed the boundaries. I hear someone say it's getting better. Those I'm talking to, who are on the ground in the camps in Greece, have a completely different story to tell. There's more, there's getting worse, and there's eventually not even space in the camps. And now some of the camps are being rebuilt, so they're almost for prison camps to count. Norway can do better than this. We're in the Security Council. We should be at the forefront of the countries that comply with what the United Nations asks of us. We should be at the forefront of those countries that see a country in Europe asking for help, which is on its knees economically, which has a huge problem, and where the local population has taken more than enough of the burden — and at least pick up 750. There aren't many of them, and we can do that. Norwegian municipalities are ready. We can pick out the most vulnerable. We should also get someone from Bosnia. It is a country that does not work at all, and the refugees — if possible — have even worse conditions. I will address the suggestions we have made in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1986	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e1991	There are several thousand refugees living in unworthy conditions in tent camps in Greece. Those who live there are not granted the fundamental human rights. They lack health care and food, children do not receive education, and the security of the camps is not good enough. In addition to this, of course, the pandemic has made an already difficult situation even more difficult. There's nothing to say that the situation is going to get better if no more contribute. Therefore, Norway and other European countries must contribute to the relocalisation of refugees and not allow Greece to deal with this situation alone. There are record numbers of people fleeing the world, but few asylum seekers come to Norway. It's the neighbourhoods that receive most of the refugees. It is overtime that Norway shows solidarity, and we can start by accepting more refugees from Greece. Ever since the beginning, people around the country have protested against government policy. While last year's government would accept only 50 refugees from the Moria camp in Greece, Norwegian municipalities show solidarity. Cities like Bodø, Bergen, Oslo, Moss, Stavanger, Trondheim, Tromsø said last year that they could receive at least as many individually as the government would accept together. More than 100 municipalities said they were ready to accept at least 800 refugees, but the government put an end to this work. In Bosnia too, the need for help is great. For approx. one year more than 10 000 asylum seekers, refugees and migrants have arrived. In the refugee camps that exist, the capacity is detonated, and because of this, families and children who flee alone must live under unworthy conditions, without food, water, heat and adequate sanitary conditions. But we can contribute, and Red has always stood for a more solidarity policy. We have repeatedly made proposals in Stortinget about a handshake to Greece to receive more people who are now suffering in the camps in Greek islands. We are today going to vote in favour of the SV proposals. In addition, of course, we can provide more assistance to Bosnia. Norway is both a smoker and more inclusive society than the government parties and the majority of the population now both believe and base their policies. Clearly, we must work for a world order where people are not made refugees, where people can escape. But all the time there is war, including wars in which Norway participates, all the time when there are conflicts, persecution, people are driven away. Believe me, no one will be driven away. It's not a choice you make. It's a choice you're going to have to make because of a policy that someone other than you is leading. We must build on a people's movement for solidarity with people on the run.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e2004	There is no doubt that the situation of many of the world's refugees and migrants is very worrying. This also applies to migrants in our neighbourhood, such as Greece and Bosnia and Herzegovina. I share the Committee's view that we have a responsibility to help both inside and outside Europe. We take this responsibility, along with the rest of the international community. Greece receives extensive assistance from the EU and European countries to ensure that migrants who have come to the country are properly cared for. The result is that the situation of migrants in the islands has improved significantly in the last year and vulnerable groups are transferred to the mainland. New reception camps have also been set up in line with the EU standard. Norway’s assistance is mainly provided through EEA funds, which I have explained earlier, including: in the debate last year on the Innst. 298 S for 2019-2020. Bosnia-Herzegovina also receives extensive assistance from the EU and European countries to care for migrants coming to the country. Norway has also contributed funds to strengthen the rights of migrants and refugees and to improve the protection of the infectious diseases in receptions during the current pandemic. Neither Greece nor Bosnia-Herzegovina stand alone. Europe stands up. The government’s priority is to strengthen the country’s own ability to handle migration. That way, the help reaches most people and provides long-term solutions. Relocalisation is a short-term response, but Norway has set up both in 2016–2017, last year and this year. I therefore believe it is right that the Committee does not support the proposal for further relocation from Greece or Bosnia and Herzegovina. The number proposed by Greece would be the highest proportion of Norway relocated in Europe. We believe from the government that this is the wrong priority of the resources. Instead, we insist on prioritising the reception of transfer refugees based on the advice of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees. I can see that there's a broad consensus about this line. There is no simple response to the challenges of irregular migration towards Europe. We should seek solutions jointly with other European countries. It is positive that the EU now wants to further develop the European asylum system through proposals for a new migration pact. We also need to ensure that the aid benefits as much as possible and reaches them with the greatest need for protection. I believe that the government's policy is taking place today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e2018	Then it's going to be line change, but it's going to be immediate voting, and we wouldn't be done with the lines before we vote. That's why we have to wait for the line change until we're done with the voting. I understand that someone thinks it's unfortunate, but we can't go over time. Then there will be a call to voting, and those who are going to have lines must hold on to the good thoughts.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e2032	The cancellation is then ready to go to voting and start with the matter no. 9-18 from Wednesday, 9 June, Agenda No. 97.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e2044	A total of 23 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-5, by Kari Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 6, from Kari Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 7 and 8, by Kari Henriksen, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 9, from Silje Hemdal on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 10, from Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 11–15, from Silje Hemdal on behalf of the Progress Party proposal No 16, from Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen on behalf of the Center Party the proposals No 17–23, from Freddy André Supreme Court on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 17, 19 and 21, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for a return to the Storting with proposals to include children’s participation and rights in all relevant parts of the Child Protection Act, for example by including the words ‘Children’s rights under Chapter 1 must be respected’ as the first part of each chapter.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The Government is asking for a clear differentiation of the new competence requirements with regard to the type and location of the institution, and with regard to the various functions requiring master’s degree in the municipal child protection service, and to return to the Stortinget on its own initiative.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government to present the first part of a four-year escalation plan for a total of thousands of new posts in the municipal child protection service in 2022.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e2098	There is a vote on proposal No. 16th from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that new child protection laws are updated in line with the fundamental rights of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child to Information and to express itself freely in all acts and decisions of child protection, and how this should be emphasised against other considerations.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e2113	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 11–15, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to implement a two-way approach to child protection.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to refer to the use of calls in child-rescue cases without delay.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the parties to a child protection case have the right to change the case handler.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that providers of child protection services are treated equally and that in each case the quality of service is the most important.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case for replacing the county council members with an administrative court.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e2150	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 9-2, second paragraph, is replaced by the following: Child protection shall ensure that children living in foster homes are provided with safe and stable foster homes with care rights and that the child is provided with the necessary measures to ensure that the child’s best interests are cared for by the foster home.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e2168	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Progress Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a case for the introduction of a professional authorisation scheme for child protection educators and socionomists.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e2183	There is a vote on proposal No. 8, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that non-profit actors can continue to provide services for the target groups ‘care for children under 13 years’ and ‘rest treatment’.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e2198	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to facilitate greater transparency in the handling of cases in general so that the press can follow more closely its treatment without breaching the standards of protection.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e2213	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3–5, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a fresh proposal for Chapter 10 of the Children’s Protection Act to be submitted to the Storting after a full review and investigation of children’s rights and the use of coercion in a child protection institution.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked, at the latest in the State budget for 2022, to present a plan for the follow-up to the Stortinge decision to increase the proportion of non-profit institutions serving children’s facilities at the expense of commercial operators.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking – within the framework of general quality requirements – not to restrict the offer of non-profit actors to specified groups of children/young people’.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e5735	Alternatively, between A § 1-4 third paragraph, § 3-5, § 7-1 and § 15-2 and the proposals No. 18, 20, 22 and 23, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘Sections 15 to 2 are replaced by the following: § 15-2 General responsibility of the municipality for the protection of children The municipality is responsible for carrying out the tasks of this law that have not been added to a governmental body. The municipality shall provide the necessary training and guidance to the staff of the Child Protection Service. Personnel are obliged to participate in the training and guidance determined. The Ministry may prescribe training. The municipality shall provide guidance on child protection practices at the request of a training institution. The municipality shall cooperate with the educational institution on the implementation of guided practices. The municipality shall ensure the involvement of children and caregivers and make use of their experience as quality assurance and improvement of child protection services. The municipality shall have internal control according to the rules of the municipal law § 25-1.» Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘§ 7-1 Right of association and contact Children and parents have the right to get together and contact with each other, unless otherwise specified. Children and siblings with whom the child has an established family life are also entitled to have association and contact with each other unless otherwise specified.’;» Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘Sections 3 to 5 are replaced by the following: § 3-5 Parental assistance measures without the child's consent The rights of the child referred to in Chapter 1 must be respected. If a child has struggled with serious and repeated intoxication, crime or violence against others, cf. § 6-2, or are in the process of developing such expressions, the child protection and health student may decide that measures aimed at reaching what is perceived as strenuous or harmful for the child and at improving the quality of life of the child may be carried out without the child’s consent. Such measures may also be carried out without the child’s consent when the measures are taken as part of the termination of an institution’s stay in accordance with Sections 6 to 2. Measures without the consent of the child may not be maintained for more than six months following the adoption of the decision of the denominator.’;» Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘Sections 1 to 4, third paragraph, shall be replaced by the following: In meetings with child protection, a child has the right to have a person with whom the child has particular confidence. The trustee may be bound by professional secrecy.’;» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e5792	It is votted over A §§ 6-4 and 6-5. The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e5806	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Chapter 10 is replaced by the following: Chapter 10. Child protection services, etc. § 10-1 Rights while staying in an institution Institutions shall be operated in such a way that children can decide for themselves on personal matters and have contact with others whom they wish, as far as this is compatible with the age and maturity of the child, with the purpose of residence, and with the institution's responsibility for operating, including responsibility for safety and well-being. The rights of children under § 1-3 and § 1-4 apply mutatis mutandis to this chapter. Children shall have the right to move both within and outside the area of the institution, subject to the restrictions laid down in order to take account of the need for safety and well-being. In the case of children placed on the basis of a decision or consent referred to in Sections 6 to 2 or Section 6 to 1, the institution may limit the freedom to leave the area to the extent necessary for the purpose of the decision. It is not permitted: (a) to punish children physically; (b) use lock-in of exclusive or similar coercive measures, unless permitted by the regulations referred to in point (a) of the fourth subparagraph; (c) to monitor the correspondence of a child unless permitted by the regulations referred to in point (b) of the fourth subparagraph; The Ministry may prescribe: (a) for the purposes of supplementing the above provisions, including the use of coercive agents; (b) with a view to preventing substances or dangerous articles from being introduced into the institution; (c) on the management of the child's funds; By decision pursuant to § 6-6 and § 4-5, the institution shall implement the specified safeguard measures to prevent the child from coming into contact with persons who may wish to use it for trafficking in human beings. The safeguard measures resulting from the decision may restrict the child’s access to the reception of visits, to communicate by mail, telephone or other communication equipment and to move freely outside the institution’s territory. Protective measures may also restrict who can be told where the child is. The protective measures may not lay down restrictions which prevent the child from contacting with guardians, lawyers, child protection services, supervisory authorities, health professionals who are the caregivers, pastors, other social workers or the like. The Ministry may lay down additional provisions for this provision.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e5852	It is votered over A, Chapter 10, Section 10-2 and Section 10-3, first paragraph. The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced subsidiary support for the vote. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e5868	It's vottered over A, the rest of Chapter 10. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e5882	Alternatively, the second paragraph of Section 13-2 and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 13-2, second paragraph, is replaced by the following: Before being notified to the Child Protection Service, the notifier shall inform the child of the notification, allow the child to express himself/her views on the child in accordance with the age and maturity of the child. Paragraph 13-2, second paragraph, becomes the third paragraph.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e5904	Alternatively, the third paragraph of Section 15-7 and the proposal No. 7, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 15-7, third paragraph, is replaced by the following: The municipality may not agree with private service providers to assist in the following tasks: (a) act as the head and deputy head of the Child Protection Service; (b) take decisions and decisions; (c) represent the child protection service in the field of child protection and health; (d) initiation and conduct of investigations; (e) the choice and approval of foster homes; f) follow-up visits to foster homes (g) the implementation of interim emergency decisions taken by the head of the Child Protection Service; (h) the preparation and evaluation of the action and care plan.»; The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e5939	It goes over the rest of A.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e6139	It is voted over the title of the laws and the laws as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e6149	Law decisions will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e6196	It shall be counted above C I and VII. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e6210	That's right. It's right over C III. The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e6224	It's over C.V. The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e6238	It shall be counted against C II, IV and VI.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e6255	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Kari Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 3-5, from Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked by the government in the further process of sharing the ownership rights of the property of the Information Society Fund to enter into a supplementary agreement with the Norwegian Church for further process that ensures that the State and the Church become equivalent parties and settles their financing obligations towards the Church.» [[dispute resolution mechanism, valuation of residual value Information service fund, etc.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e6279	There is a vote on proposal No. Five from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking in its further work on rehabilitating cultural-historically valuable churches to consider whether the state’s contribution to this will trigger more protection efforts if it is linked to a split-layer model of the Culture Memory Fund type, where municipal capital can count as self-financing in maintenance projects.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e6296	There is a vote on proposal No. Four from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government, at the latest in the context of the submission of the State budget for 2023, to provide information on how it assesses the possibilities for achieving the objective of restoring all medieval stone churches to the Stiklestad marking in 2030.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e6313	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests that the fixed contracts relating to the information society fund be offered redeemed in line with the proposal for a representative in Document 8:210 S paragraphs 1 and 2.’; [[2020-2021]] Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e6331	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that areas which come into state ownership are secured for outdoor activities, hunting and fishing and remain in state ownership.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e6447	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e6457	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e6469	In the course of the debate, all nine proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Kari Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 4-9, from Freddy André Supreme Court on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4-9 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to evaluate the Transparency Act for a maximum of two years after its entry into force.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to include serious environmental damage as an element of the care assessment in Section 4b of the Transparency Act.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: «The Government is asked to propose that the Transparency Act apply to all establishments providing goods and services in Norway.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘Section 6 of the Act of Transparency is replaced by the following: § 6 Transparency of production sites Undertakings which place goods on the market to the consumer must publish information on the place of production. The information shall be published on the company’s website or otherwise made readily available. The king may decide by regulation which sectors and groups of activities are to be exempted from the obligation to publish. §§ 6-15 becomes §§ 7-16.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government in the context of the review of the Transparency Act to investigate and propose that the Authority should also have the competence to issue expulsion orders from official business delegations to the rest of the world and access to public financial support schemes for a given period, as well as the cessation of illegal circumstances, the reprisal of victims of business-related human rights violations and the prohibition of the activity of individuals.’;» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government in evaluating the Transparency Act to determine how the transparency obligations are relevant to the corporate criminal record, and in particular as regards the assessment of whether parent companies should be held liable for crimes committed in subsidiaries.’;» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e6535	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the ILO to define decent work in the Transparency Act and to propose replacing ‘decent employment’ with ‘decent work’ in proposed § 3(c).’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the inclusion of reference to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child in the proposed point (b) of the first paragraph of Section 3 of the Transparency Act.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a provision requiring that the establishments governed by the Transparency Act be required to publish the place of production of the goods.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e6819	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e6831	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e6845	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e7002	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e7013	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e7025	During the debate, Christian Tybring-Gjedde has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Norwegian Embassy in Israel to move from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e7051	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e7056	We're correcting the number of votes. The result is that 71 representatives voted in favour of the Committee's position and 16 voted in favour of the proposal by the Progress Party. – Thus the setting is consonant.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e7069	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Christian Tybring-Gjedde on behalf of the Advancement Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is requesting that Norway, as a member of the United Nations Security Council, promote the establishment of an international criminal court to deal with members and sympathizers of IS in the region where criminal acts have been committed.’; Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is requesting that Norway, through its membership of the Security Council, work to ensure settlement capacity in the region, so that members and sympathizers of the IS convicted by an international criminal court must zone in the area in which they committed their crimes.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e7107	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Petter Eide on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that Norway takes a leading role in the international work of a treaty which prohibits lethal autonomous weapon systems and maintains human control.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The government is asked to submit a case to the Stortinget for the regulation of autonomous weapon technology which ensures that Norwegian companies do not contribute to systems that can be considered unacceptable.» Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up. The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e7140	The size then goes to voting on the case no. 1 to 10 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e7149	Case No. 1–4 is the second time legal proceedings and concerns legislative acts 158 up to and including 161. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e7177	Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e7196	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Kari Anne Bøkestad Andreassen on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the Government to propose the necessary changes to Section 4 of the Water and Sewage Plant Law in order to make a mandatory application of approx. 50 kroner per subscriber per year.’;» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e7222	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide full funding for the National Water Infrastructure Centre in connection with the NMBU at Ås’.» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e7239	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to carry out a State investigation into a national emergency water equipment system as a priority measure to enhance the preparedness of the drinking water sector.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e7271	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e7309	During the debate, Mr Andreassen presented a proposal on behalf of the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to establish a new housing loan scheme in the Husbank to finance loans for housing in areas where the estimated market value is lower than the construction costs and to develop guidelines on the costs to be included in the scheme.’» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e7333	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e7352	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Helge André Njåstad on behalf of the Advance Party. There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to draw up a circular on the application of the law on the rental of small electric vehicles on public land.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e7456	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e7469	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The law on the rental of small electric vehicles on public grounds §§ 5, 7 and 8 is replaced by the following: § 5 Fee The municipality may charge a fee to cover the necessary administrative and administrative expenses of the municipality for the provision of rental services under this law. § 7 Right of appeal An appeal may be brought against regulatory decisions based on this law. The provisions of this Act shall enter into force once the regulation has been confirmed by the Department. § 8 Entry into force The law shall enter into force immediately.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e7504	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e7518	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e7535	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e7547	Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e7555	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e7574	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Siri Gåsemyr Staalesen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2 and 3, from Helge André Njåstad on behalf of the Progress Party and the Centre Party proposal No 4, from Heidi Greni on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 5 and 6, by Helge André Njåstad on behalf of the Progress Party Proposals Nos. 5 and 6 are identical to proposals that were voted on at the Stortingen meeting on 25 February 2021 and will see the fifth paragraph of Section 38 of the Rules of Procedure is thus not reopened. There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to propose amendments to the Government’s planning guidelines for coordinated housing, land and transport planning and other government management to ensure that the protection of cultivated land is made an overarching objective in all planning work in Norway.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e7608	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Progress Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to review and amend the State planning guidelines for coordinated housing, land and transport planning, inter alia, by adopting an overarching objective to facilitate growth and development across Norway, to contribute to balanced urban and urban development, and to specifically facilitate growth and development in areas with weak or negative population development.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to amend the government’s planning guidelines for coordinated housing, land and transport planning in order to ensure that municipalities with scattered areas are not forced to centralise settlement and other developments within the municipality. Municipalities must be able to decide for themselves where to facilitate development and to what extent scattered housing is to be permitted.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e7630	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to evaluate the government’s planning guidelines and the impact they have had on growth growth throughout the country.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e7640	President! The Group of the European People's Party also supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e7645	Then the Centre Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e7673	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e7685	Treatment was continued for the following reasons:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e7705	The budget then goes back to agenda and case No. 12, where it's going to be line chord shift. The first representative is Jon Engen-Helgheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e7710	We have discussed similar issues in a number of previous debates. We have also discussed these issues in several line exchanges, especially in the area of relocation. In the past, the minister said that it could give wrong signals to operate with relocation, as suggested in this case. The Minister has also said that it is not a sustainable policy to operate with relocalisation as proposed. From the right we heard the representative Trellevik mention that the Right believes it can lead to that it makes worse with relocation as suggested. Then my question to the Minister is whether she will now guarantee that the Right will not agree to relocalization programmes in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e7715	Councillor Monica Mæland [15:23:57]: There are two things that premise for my answer. The first is that I never guarantee anything in my political life. That would be very unwise. I think previous stories have shown that. Secondly, I do not answer for the Right, but for the Government, and the Government does not intend to relocate. We believe what we've always meant, that there are bad signals, that there are adhoc solutions, and that the most important thing is that we stick to our policies relating to refugees taken out by the UN High Commissioner. Then it is that on two occasions, both when the Advance Party put in government, and when they did not, we have relocated. History shows that while Norway has implemented what we have promised, other countries have not done so, and it shows how unbalanced this is. But we think it is good that the European Union discusses other solutions. We are listening, and we are participating in those debates. We come to Stortinget in an appropriate way if it would lead to desired changes from our side.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e7720	Jon Engen-Helgheim [[FRP]] So has there been an ongoing debate lately as well. Everyone agrees that we need to resolve the situation of asylum influx in a better way, and the Progress Party has made a proposal that is quite similar to what Denmark has now implemented. In previous replies, the Minister has decided to agree to such a policy as establishing an asylum centre in a third country, even though representatives from the Right – and the Right – are far in believing that this could be a trick. What is the reason why we do not want to cooperate with other countries to get asylum centres in third countries to complete today's failed asylum practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e7725	State Council Monica Mæland [15:25:58]: We have not rejected cooperation with other countries. On the contrary, in the Granavolden platform, we say that we would like to cooperate with the EU on different solutions. The involvement of third countries can also be one of those opportunities, and it is currently discussing EU countries. In the case of Denmark, the Progress Party gives the impression that we have interrupted a cooperation that has never existed. I have had a conversation with my Danish colleague to listen to how they work. The way they work doesn't seem to be relevant to us. There are different ways to do this, and one is to set up asylum-seekers in third countries, for which Norway is responsible, for which we are financing, and which we operate, and which we are dealing with. The second is to leave it to third countries by agreement. In any case, it is quite difficult for the third country to find Norway alone. We think it's going to be heavy. We believe that this is not going to be effective, and that challenges different aspects of the legal aspects of the asylum application procedure, for example. what happens to a refusal. So there's a lot of things to explore here if it's going to be a possibility, but from our side we've said it has to go through the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e7730	The Council of State refers to cooperation with the UN in relation to quota refugees. SV fully supports our cooperation with the UN in relation to quota refugees. But what we are now discussing is that Greece has become responsible for a great many asylum seekers. The Norwegians have now recovered, have proved to have grounds for asylum, so there is no need to dismiss and say that these are just migrants. The Greek authorities, the EU and the UN High Commissioner for Refugees have repeatedly asked European countries to contribute more to relocation because the pressure on Greek authorities is too high. What is the reason why the government looks at the UN in one way in this matter of cooperation, and in a completely different way in relation to quota refugees?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e7737	It is such that Greece has had a great deal of pressure. Now the number of asylum seekers to Greece has fallen by 70 pst. This year compared to last year, so that's good. It's true that they have a pressure. That is why we have contributed to relocation, with competence, with money, with health assistance – in other ways. But this is the case, and I am a little surprised that the representative is not concerned, that there is a great deal of pressure on other EU countries too – in Cyprus, Malta, Italy and Spain, to mention someone. There are refugee camps in the world where there are terrible conditions, for example. in Lebanon. So why choose Spain as the country to which Norway is going to make an air bridge, I actually don't understand. So our priority is not to pick up asylum seekers, refugees or migrants from EU countries. Our main policy is to give priority to receiving refugees taken out on the basis of the UN High Commissioner. That's our main reason because we think relocalization is an adhoc solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e7744	SV has never proposed establishing an air bridge from Spain. I don't know where the state council got it from. What we have proposed is to comply with the request made by the United Nations, the European Union and Greece, because it is a critical situation that has arisen there. And it arises because there are closed borders in Europe, and because Greece is a transit country. There is a need to relieve loads. It has also opened at least a small door to participation in a pan-European solution. Does the Council not see the need for some countries to go ahead and relieve a country in Europe asking for help in this respect? There may be several countries that need help, but here we have to find a solution, among other things. for those children who have been there for a long time and who have not had school and who have not had access to healthcare.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e7751	I don't know how many times I'm going to answer the representative to the exact same question. Our approach to this is to pick up quota refugees who we have great reason to assume are staying in Norway, from cruel conditions in camps outside Europe. That is the government's priority and the government's policy. Then we help Greece with money, people and health care, and we've relocated. Norway has relocated twice in the last few years. Both times Norway has completed its contribution; it has no other country, although they have promised it. When I called it an air bridge, it was a bit in goose eyes, but it's clear that a proposal to pick up 750 people is four times what Germany does according to population. That's why I called it an air bridge. I don't think it's sustainable. I don't think it's anything long-term. There is a solution here today; there is no solution tomorrow, not the day after that, and not the day after that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e7758	The reason I brought it up was that the Council of State said Spain, and that SV has never suggested in these proposals. The council says they're busy accepting quota refugees, and it's absolutely right that there's bad conditions in many places. I've been in several of these camps, so I know it. The government has decided to accept quota refugees, but the number adopted has not yet arrived, either last year or this year, so in that area too, the government is miles away from fulfilling its own ambitions for the reception of quota refugees. Does this mean that the Council of State and the Government do not recognise that asylum seekers need protection and that only those who are quota refugees are recognised?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e7768	For the record, I meant Greece. If I said Spain, I said wrong. I did, of course, relate to the proposal that the representative has made. Our target is 3,000 quota refugees per year. This makes us at the top of Europe according to our population. I think that's very good. We recognise that there can be asylum seekers elsewhere in Europe. These are asylum seekers elsewhere in Europe. It's just that we pick them up from camps outside Europe, according to the recommendations made by the UN High Commissioner. It's true that we wanted to pick up 3,000 last year. We gave 2,400 admissions, and that means we transferred 600 more this year. So far it's been 800 this year. So we know that it worked out beyond last year, and we think it'll do it this year, too, so that more and more countries experience having vaccinated, that we get easier access.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e7777	We hope it will allow the government to speed up that work so that we can pick up the quota refugees Norway has told us to pick up. SV has proposed that we accept the number of UN requests, which is 5,000, so there is no reason for the Council of State to suggest that SV is not for quota refugees. We are therefore in favour of what the United Nations is asking us to do. What does the Council of State think it is when Norway is now sitting in the Security Council, and this is a global problem? Does the Council of State and the Government think that the institution of asylum should be strengthened and maintained, or does it think that it should be undermined by closed borders and by refusing to deal with such catastrophic situations, by relieving itself when the United Nations asks for it?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e7784	I have answered the question very many times now. Our policy is to be the best in Europe to pick up quota refugees from terrible conditions around the world. It's our policy. Then our policy is also to contribute to peace throughout the world through our work in the Security Council. There must be no impression of anything because there are not too many refugees like SV, or not for a relocalisation policy that is not sustainable, but which means that we are going to have requests to pick up every day. So that's where we have different policies. I respect it, but it's not like we don't have a very good and very forward-looking policy for this. We have not been deleted saying that we intend to make changes with regard to the asylum institution. On the contrary, we are holding the asylum institute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e7791	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e7798	In 2019, two thirds of all refugees in the world came from five countries – Syria, Venezuela, Afghanistan, South Sudan and Myanmar. Syria has peaked these statistics since 2014 and until the end of 2019. That's about it. 6.6 million acids for residence in 126 countries. Lebanon has 6 million inhabitants, a little more than Norway. Nevertheless, they have had to receive 1.5 million refugees. It's about 22 pst. by the population. Think about that number – about the Council of State that still refers to seeing things in relation to the population. Here in the hall we see that the SV's proposal to pick up 750 refugees is not supported at all. I say, Makan! I thought in my naivety that Norway, as a member of the UN Security Council, had a special responsibility to follow up the United Nations' requests on the issue of refugees – but no. We have a United Nations history in Norway. But it doesn't seem to count anything in particular. It is comforting to hear again and again in this Chamber all the world's excuses for not accepting more people on the run. Not least, these excuses come from the Progress Party: We help criminal gangs, they say. Yeah, of course, it's easy to sell in to people. We have to help them where they are, they say that. Yeah, it's easy to sell in. It costs so much to accept them too – yes, it is also easy to sell in. That's one argument after another. Maybe it's like people are starting to review these arguments anyway. In any case, the immigration-critical party The Progress Party has not grown particularly on this in recent times – fortunately it has shrunk. The position of the SV is advisable to take the UN recommendations seriously. So we're in the Security Council. Shouldn't we take responsibility at all when we sit there? Greece is down for counting, both economically over many years, after huge influx of refugees and now after the corona. In fact, large groups in Greece have halved their real wages. That's why there's so many strikes now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e7811	Night, 9 September last year, it burned in the Moria camp. We woke up to the news of the fire that left hell's courtyard in the ashes. 13 000 people, including 5,000 kids, became homeless. Those who didn't have anything got even less. The government's response to the fire was to open up to pick up 50 refugees from Moria to Norway. But 50 is not enough. It is far from enough in such a critical situation. A few days after the fire, SV in Trondheim suggested that Trondheim alone accept 115 refugees from Moria. In Trondheim, SV received support from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Left, the Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. We saw the same thing in municipalities like Røros, Hitra, Namsos and Malvik. Over a hundred Norwegian municipalities said they were ready to accept refugees from Moria. But the government resisted. When SV takes the case to Stortinget and asks the government to come up with a plan, take responsibility for being the leading force in Europe and participate in providing legal certainty to the 50 000 asylum seekers who cannot move on from Greece, the answer from the same parties is no. But if Trondheim alone can accept 115, then the rest of the country's municipalities – many of them have agreed to accept someone – will be able to accept the 750 refugees we are asking for today. What we're asking ourselves is, where is the Workers' Party, the Center Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party when we can do something about the situation of the refugees in the Greek islands here in the Storting? Why is it so quiet? The parties are heard locally, where they support SV's proposal to help those who have it tough today. I want to thank you for that. But on Stortinget it's quiet. The parties vote in favour of the same refugee policy as the Progress Party. After the fall we have to put Norway on a new course, a course in which solidarity with our fellow human beings is put first – those who live here today, and those who will live here after us.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e7824	I hear the council once again use the term «sustainable» when we discuss these matters. There is no doubt that Norway will be able to accept 750, that it is sustainable in Norway, but no one has claimed that a situation of war and persecution is sustainable, no matter how we turn it around and turn it around. The question is whether we can relieve a little more distress than what we are willing to do now, that's what this case is about, and maybe also go ahead to get more countries to relieve Greece. Several have mentioned Greece, which has been on its knees for many years. People have lost social benefits, they're economic bankrupt. Now it's been pandemic, the tourist industry's been counting, and they've had an incredibly much greater responsibility for refugees than we've ever experienced. I don't think anyone here can imagine that. This is about solidarity with the refugees who sit there without hope, but it is also about solidarity with Greece and with the local people, who have really taken on a great deal of responsibility. A lot of them are doing a huge job, but a lot of people are also very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, Then I hear a lot of people talk about stopping the traffickers. Yes, so will SV, but then we have to make it possible to travel legally. Then we have to make it possible to apply for asylum in a place where you do not have to go on these long trips before you have to provide your asylum application. For more people here – and it is starting to sound as if it is also right – are sounding as if the institution of asylum itself is creating refugees. But the institution of asylum is part of our human rights, the rights we have so that people can do the most important thing when they are most in need, namely get out of an area where life is threatened, and into an area where life is safe. Then we cannot mention the institution of asylum as if it were something driving asylum seekers on the run. That's the possibility they have. Then it is quite right that there are also migrants inside these streams, but I notice that now everyone is systematically referred to as migrants, and even irregular migrants. It is not illegal to seek asylum, it is permissible to seek asylum, but it is therefore not allowed to legally travel to a place. You do not get a visa from these countries to a safe country. You have to travel illegally, and that is what creates a market for human traffickers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e7835	It is probably the way that many from SV have suggested that the Progress Party has won with its view of asylum policy. The main parties have followed the views of the Progressive Party in the field of asylum policy, and that is very good reason, because we have many years of experience in a policy that does not work. The approach angle the Progress Party has chosen, and said on the break in and out for very many years, turns out to be right. It has been completed in Australia, with the result that drowning death was stopped in the day. That, I believe, is the most important objective we have: to stop drowning and all the other cruel fates that the asylum system, and how it is being practised today, lead to. Then the municipalities have been mentioned saying they want to settle. Yes, every time this is discussed, there are a number of municipalities with the Central Party and Labour Party rapporteurs who say that they will settle hundreds of people. The same rapporteurs have said no on the contrary to settle asylum seekers who have been granted residence and need a municipality but who have special needs. So far did that solidarity go. It's pure hypocrisy. If SV believes that relocalization will solve the problem: why only 750? It's like a grain of sand in the Sahara. If you don't see any contradictions with what Norway can accept, if you don't see any contradictions with the fact that this gives the wrong signals, if you don't see any contradictions with the fact that it's not a sustainable policy: why are you so excited that you only suggest 750 people, when the need for that logic is on many, many thousands? I can't believe it. It must be because you do not have faith in your policy. It has to be because you don't think it'll solve anything, and that's quite right. SV mentions it, but does not suggest it, because it is well known that it would be wrong to introduce a legal way of going to Norway to seek asylum. That would lead to tens of millions of people trying. It is 80 million people who are fleeing the world. There is no solution to establish a legal air bridge for Norway. It'll hurt worse.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e7846	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e7851	SV has not proposed any air bridges to Norway. We have proposed that ways should be found to avoid throwing themselves into the arms of traffickers in order to seek asylum, and no one in this room has proposed a solution. On Facebook these past few days, more than 100,000 signatures have been collected in support of this proposal. This means that there is a lot of popular support in society — in municipalities and in society else — that Norway can do something more. No one has said that this will solve everything either. I've never heard anyone say that, I've never claimed it, but it will help more, and it will lead to Norway taking a slightly larger lead, by saying to other countries too: Join now, help relieve Greece of the excessive responsibilities they've been given, and the far too terrible situations that are in these camps – also in Greece.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e7858	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e7876	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. The rapporteur, Mr André Johnsen, is not here. Then we start with the representative Kirsti Leirtrø.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e7885	We agreed that we took the debate when the matter was going to be discussed in the municipal committee, so all I want to do is take up that proposal from the minority, so that we get a vote on it when that time comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e7890	Then the representative Kirsti Leirtrø has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e7895	I actually drew myself to take up the proposal that was taken up by the Workers' Party. Electric bicycles have become a very popular means of transport in cities over the few years they have been on the market. It is a non-emission and flexible mode of transport, but it has also posed major challenges that have given rise to a desire and a need to regulate. I also refer to the debate that was earlier today, and we are pleased that a new law will be put in place. But not all aspects of this matter are dealt with by the new law. That is why we have promoted this proposal: ‘The government asks the government to draw up a classification of electric bicycles as a type of vehicle so that municipalities can regulate parking and other legislation for use in line with other vehicles’. Here, this comes with speed and also under the regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e7909	I also refer to the debate earlier today and will only address the side of the matter concerning the situation on our pavements. There's a lot of commitment around it. At the latest now in place I was stopped by an employee here in Stortinget who told me that he had been running slums around right now out on the street, where unfortunately it runs at a higher speed than is permitted. What's important to notice, is what we were into, that what's not covered by the previous debate, concerns private electric bicycles. According to the dealers it has now been sold approx. 240,000 private electric bicycles in Norway, and when the analyst Boldt, as I believe the department has also used as a basis for its work on this matter, examined with 27 dealers, one of them stated that they only sold legal models, and had a fixed speed limit of 20 kilometers per hour. A dealer, Thomas Holstad in Stayclassy, tells Avisa Oslo that they sell approx. 15 000–20000 electric bicycles per year, including those with no immobiliser, which are reported to be able to run up to 100 kilometres per hour. He says, ‘As long as it is allowed to sell, we need to do so to keep market shares. I'm all because it's illegal to sell things that go too fast, but all our competitors do it." One must be aware of the difference between the part that goes on the municipality's access to regulation, as we were in the morning, and the other part that concerns the large sales to private individuals. The difference between this and the sale of other vehicles is that it is sold without age limit. I'm contacted by parents who have 8-, 9-, 10-, 11-year-olds who want to get electric bikes, and it's electric bikes that are advertised that they can drive up to 100 kilometers per hour. According to the same analyst, Boldt, it's just about. One in ten who is sold with a speed limit, and I've seen numbers that at least 38 pst. can go over 45 kilometers per hour. This is an unsustainable situation, so I would like to appeal to the Council of State, without waiting for a debate now, that he must also follow the rules for sale. As long as there's no age limit for these bikes and they can drive at such great speeds, I think he should listen to what this negotiator says to Avisa Oslo, which I referred to. I hope we can come back to the classification of electric bicycles that we have proposed. We're the only country I know in Europe that has run these free on the pavement and the pavement.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e7925	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e7942	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e7949	We have a law that was passed here in Stortinget on 21 June 2002. We're actually going to try to cancel that law that gave a right to get banking services through the Post. It turns out that the need for the product has decreased dramatically, there are currently only a few users. It is the DNB that has had the agreement until New Year, and it has been extended. They do not consider it appropriate to extend further, and there are no other banks that wish to provide that service through the country postal network. I would like to say a little about the banking services in Norway. One of the first services where digitalisation was really used was the online banking. The first online bank came in 1996. Not many countries had it then. There were not many other services we had in digital form at the time, but the Sparebank Hedmark and Landsbanken introduced online banking offers for their customers in September 1996. It evolved, there was a lot of debate about it in terms of security, fees and things like that. But I do not believe anyone today regrets that we have implemented the online banking system. This has led to huge savings for banks, and it is also a very customer-friendly form in terms of payment services. But then, of course, there are some – and we have full respect for it – who will not take advantage of the increasingly digitised society. They are the ones you have been able to have this offer, which is now to be terminated. But the offer can be quickly replaced by a bank in the store. It's a proposal from the Workers' Party that they'll probably come back to, but it's already established. Another minority in this case will send the proposal back and would like the country postal network to continue to be maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e7972	There is a relatively large consensus in this case, but the Workers' Party believes that the social responsibility of banks and the financial industry must be more challenging in this matter. Although few people are affected by this decision, people are aware of uncertainties. It's people, not who don't want to, but who don't have the ability or the ability to make use of the system they're offered as a substitute, that's the digital world. These are people who do not have digital skills and who do not have the ability to create either BankID or Vipps solutions. That is why, as the rapporteur said, we have put forward a proposal asking the government to find satisfactory solutions for these vulnerable groups. When we mention banking at the store, it's just an example of a way to solve it, and we're also aware that it exists to a limited extent. The Government Parties and the Advance Party claim that the solutions are described in the case. We do not agree with that, and we therefore maintain our proposal even though it seems that it only has a few votes. We believe that the measures described are good enough, but they do not challenge the social responsibility of the banks well enough. In doing so, I support the Labour Party's proposal on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e7983	The representative Øystein Langholm Hansen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e7988	This is not how the Post Office has not tried to reach an agreement. It's also important to bring with us when we're going to discuss this. There are no other banks that will continue with that scheme. So you can probably sit in this room and say that you like to get it done, but it'll cost a lot of money. I am not sure if it is where you want to spend all this money when it is now established, among other things. bank in the store. The Norway Group has established it in many of its shops. That means there's an opportunity very many places to do it. But I totally agree. It's a challenge for a few people who live in a place where it's a challenge to get these services because you're not digital. In fact, you have to respect that. It's allowed not to be digital. This means that you have to work to facilitate how you can do it in a good way. That is why, on the part of the Progress Party, we agree with the majority comment that clearly calls on the government to follow this up in order to see how the state and financial institutions can jointly take responsibility for developing compensatory measures, so that everyone, including vulnerable groups, has access to basic banking services throughout the country. I am convinced that there is creativity. I remember the time we adopted Post in the store. There was a lot of resistance, and there were a lot of people who were really pissed off at the time -- excuse me, President -- because you had to put down some post offices and introduce Post to the store. But I think there are many who see that they have received a much better offer. We have received an offer many more places. You can also pick up the mail at completely different times in the day. There are some of the possibilities that I am convinced you will see here, and there are actors who will look at those opportunities. I realize that for some parties it's like forcing some banks to take this, but then you also have to be willing to take that cost instead of trying to see if you can do this in a good way. That's what I feel about adding up from the government that you want to find a solution. I agree with what the previous speaker said. One of the concerns in the Committee's vote is that there are some people who do not want an offer that they need and who cannot use the digital solutions that are there. I'm convinced that we can do it, and I'm looking at the Council of State that he's probably going to say something about it. I am absolutely sure that the government council, government parties and government are taking this seriously, because we are concerned that everyone should be included in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e7999	The centre party does not agree with the government regarding the Post, for the right government has systematically centralised and centralised. It has removed services from people in large parts of this country. Under the right-hand regime, the Post has weakened the supply in the districts. There have been very large geographical differences. We've heard stories about the Post moving mailboxes for hours of travel from places where people live. We've heard stories about how the veterinarians in the districts can only send bioassays on Monday and Tuesday, and that people who need to get their bite repaired must eat pot for 14 days while waiting for the post. Consignments that could previously be sent as A-mails, follow common postage and common price across the country, and which appeared overnight, now use extremely long time in many places. The product «Express the next day» has been launched as a good replacement, but it is available in an express package at Rema 1000 in Parkvejen before 1 p.m. 16 today, the package will arrive at the receiver at Loppa before 4:00 p.m. 16 – but in eight days, and this package will cost almost $1,300. Should you send the same package from Rema 1000 in the Parkway to another address in Oslo, it costs 464 kroner, and it will arrive overnight. And the product ‘Norgespacket TM the same day’ only applies in the five largest cities. The vision of the post can be read on the web pages: ‘We make everyday life simpler and the world smaller.’ But what’s not stated is that this really only applies to people and businesses in central areas. Today, another of the Posten's services is being removed. Now it is the banking services that fall, when the law of 21 June 2002 No. 44 on the provision of basic banking services through the Post Norway AS despatch network is repealed, with the support of the Government Parties, the Workers' Party and the Progress Party. This happens even if a majority of the Committee emphasises that there are persons throughout the country who do not want to have banking services when the statutory obligation for the Post ceases to exist. I'm addressing proposal No. 2, from the Center Party and SV, to send Prop. 191 L for 2020–2021 back to government and ask the government to return to Stortinget with a new proposition, based on reassessments. It looks as if a majority in the UK believes that people in the districts deserve worse deals, higher prices and lack of banking services.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8015	The representative Siv Mossleth has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8020	It is quite clear that the need for physical presence of banking services has significantly decreased in recent years. Also SV is of course aware of this, it should just be missing. But this matter has some objectionable aspects as well. Society has undergone a colossal centralisation, with the transition from physical to digital services, over the last decade or two. I have many times here from the pulpit raised the question of this development, that there are many who are following, and that especially older people in the districts through this have fallen out of active social participation. Maybe there are 300,000 people, maybe 500,000, who still don't master digital platforms. That's a lot of people. These are people who have paid taxes all their lives. We have to bring them with us on the way, we don't have to go too fast. I have been very engaged in this matter, and I have to remember how I and SV have struggled hard to get the Post to get new tasks, among other things, so that there was a basis for mail delivery five days a week. Of course, it was down here in the hall. The rapid transition to digital solutions both at public offices and in banking and postal services without maintaining better physical contact areas as services are almost disrespectful to those not on digital platforms. The party of progress boasts that they're a party for the elderly. Well, I haven't seen so much of it. But if that's the case, maybe they should think about the elderly, and especially the elderly in the districts, in this case. We in our party have referred in the vote to the Consumer Council's hearing opinion, which promotes several important arguments against completely removing the banking services. They write, among other things, that more relationships are not well-lit. They also show that there are very important emergency reasons that have not been assessed. That's important points. I think we have talked a lot about a lack of preparedness here in Norway, also in this Chamber. It is strange that it has been assessed more. In addition, the Consumer Council points to the possibility of maintaining current solutions in areas where there is a greater need, i.e. the sorted areas. It also requires reassessment. The Ministry has mainly presented one solution and has not outlined possible alternative sub-solutions. That's one last objection to us adopting this proposition today. I have to say that there are relatively modest million sums we are talking about to be able to maintain the offer a little longer, and I have compared a little to spending a lot of money on, for example. building bridges for island communities with few people. The parallel is there – it's not that different.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8033	I had strictly not intended to take the floor, but when there is a whole new debate about the Post and centralisation, I would at least remind you of the following: the universal service obligation of the Post actually applies throughout the country. It applies if you live in the district or if you live centrally. That means everyone is going to get their letters distributed, but we've gone down on the number of days we're distributing letters, because the letter volume falls due to digitization. This isn't bad will from anyone, it's just the fact that digitization makes fewer people send letters, ergo it's not the same need. There is a significantly smaller volume to distribute, ergo is also not accounting for maintaining this as many days as before. But that's not what this is really about. It is about the provision of banking services, and some of the challenge here, including for the government and the Council, would be that if the Post does not have a banking connection that wants to offer this product, it is also difficult to maintain that offer in the Post. After all, the banking institutions should rather work a little further on this, as is also described here: How can alternative solutions be established? I feel like I'm on it. That's why I want to explain at least our vote here, because we don't see the need to make a decision here today on something that is already at work, where something is actually happening, and where we see that an offer is being set up. I think that's very positive. We're going to take care of everyone and that everyone should be able to have an offer, but when it's in the market and at the banks, I think we don't have to re-adopate it here in this room. With regard to the second proposal, from the centre party and SV, to postpone the matter, it solves nothing. However, when there is no bank connection with which the Post can agree to offer this, it will not solve any problem postponing this case. That is our explanation of why we do not vote for any of these two proposals – firstly because there are alternative offers during establishment, and secondly because it will not solve any problems postponing the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8045	In the 1980s, I worked at the Post Home at Bømlo. Although I did a good job, I have to admit that I believe the postal service in Oslo was better than at Bømlo in the 1980s. Paradoxically, my post office in Oslo shuts down today five to six hours before the post office at Bømlo shuts down, every day. But that's not what this thing is about. It still gives me a perspective that I thought it was worth taking along. There are three main reasons why we have presented this matter. One is that there is a very strong drop in the use of these services. The other is – and I am very pleased – that we have very good alternative solutions. Thirdly, no one wants to take this offer, and therefore it is impracticable to pass it on. In case of a fall in use only in the last few years: from 2013 to 2020, the number of transactions falls by 90 pst, from more than 300000 to 30000. The trend has continued from 2020 to 2021. Only in that year does this fall further by 41 pst. There are good alternative solutions. Many older or non-digital customers have access to and use letter giro and bank cards with code, or telephone banking solutions. DNB has its own concept of non-digital users called "Bank without the Internet" and a direct number for the same user group. When it relates to cash payments from the State to those who for various reasons do not have, or want to use the account of a Norwegian bank, the Directorate of Administration and Financial Management and the banking industries have created an own, card-based solution, the ‘Payment Card’, where benefits from Nav and the Husbank are paid. There are also cash card solutions in the banking market that municipalities and others can use for cash payments to people without a bank account. When it concerns access to cash for those with a bank account, there are also cash services in the store. This has 98 pst. of the population access to in their own municipality. Finally, no bank wanted to enter into an agreement with the Post office about this. That would mean that it would be an extremely expensive system. Even with the sums we have now operated on, we could risk that each transaction would cost NOK 1200–1,500. Then, of course, it's an extremely expensive solution, which I think most people understand that we couldn't go on.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8062	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8067	Thank you for the briefing that it is less mail. Most of us have brought it, but it seems that the Center Party may not have got it with it or are more concerned about the postal cars going around more or less empty. They produce the government and also the Progress Party as quite hopeless as we do not want the empty mail cars to continue running around. How have other countries actually solved this? And what will the Minister see that it can cost, both in terms of climate and environmental considerations and not least for taxpayers, if we were to maintain the postal offer you can get the impression that the centre party here wants?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8074	That's a good question, because we know that when the amount of supply within the Post falls so much, it becomes extremely expensive to keep it up. When this type of supply is not needed, the option to convert it will cost a lot. Fortunately, even with varying governments, we have adapted the Post to the new reality, and this is a suggestion. It's also happened to the Center Party in the Ministry of Transport. I believe that this matter had been brought forward independently of the colour of both government and state council. I believe that this is a natural solution in the light of development. The answer to the question to the representative Johnsen is that it would cost billions if we had not done this job. It would go beyond other important purposes for which we need to use our community's resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8083	When the banking services fall, the last chance for the Post as an actor in society is gone. All postal and banking services are liberalised, with great consequences for those who live extremely and for the weakest in society. We are left with Posten Norge AS, a Nordic postal and logistics group with great ambitions as a company in a competitive market. While the Post and Bring compete in popular areas in Europe, people sit in the countryside and can barely send a package if they don't have equipment or knowledge to print a digital note, maybe in an app, and attach to this package. The representative of the place talked about universal service, and now there is not quite as bad a delivery time by letter. For example, when it comes to people who get passports sent by letter, it takes a very long time for others, and I've heard about people who couldn't travel for that reason. However, packages also have different delivery times and different prices, as I mentioned in my example. What does the minister think about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8090	I think some of the alternative solutions we've got here are very important, not least for some of the most vulnerable in our society. I pointed out that solution and wanted to take it back again, since the representative Mossleth mentioned this. It is the map that the Directorate of Administration and Financial Management has prepared in conjunction with the banking industry. It is a card-based solution, the ‘Payment Card’, which is also supported by Nav and the House Bank. That's what I think is very important. So the supply that we now have is a supply that naturally is characterized by the fact that the volume of the Post has gone down. That's why we also have ways to change, and I feel that the conversion is correct. If we hadn't, I'm afraid we had built up a large volume of postal services that it's not necessary, and it would have been very expensive. And who would lose most of it? Well, it would have been our district Norway, because that's where it would have been the most expensive. The alternative is that we'd spent many billions on it, and I don't think political Norway is willing to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8097	I notice that the minister did not answer the questions, which went into the long delivery time of letters sent as an A-mail, e.g. with passport content. It is promised that it will come within so and so many days, sent as A-mail, but it will not, and it will affect people who stand on the threshold to travel. Among other things, a fellow politician from my home municipality was not allowed to attend a meeting on bar cooperation because the passports did not come as agreed in the post office. I noticed that the minister did not respond to this either with different performance times. A package takes eight days to Loppa, one day to Oslo, and the price is three times higher for the same package in Loppa versus Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8104	I am fully open to discuss with the representative Mossleth various solutions for the Post. But what we are now discussing is the banking services in the Post Office. For banking customers who do have an online banking solution, just where it is in Norway, the traffic will be quite similar if it's in Oslo, in Loppa or in Bømlo. That is what this matter is all about. So I am also concerned about the questions that the representative Mossleth raises. If we build too large banking services, it'll be too expensive. I believe that the most vulnerable, where the mail services in Norway are getting too poor, are not least in District Norway. The post is very important for District Norway, and if we built it up, for example. To every day with too strict demands, the service would have become too expensive from the volume, the amount of letters that we have today. That's why we have to adapt, as the Center Party did – very well – when they ran the Ministry of Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8111	I almost wanted to take a line on the representative Johnsen, but I can't. I noticed something so amazing: what will this cost in terms of climate and environmental considerations? I'm just asking the council to notice, he's got the beautiful gold grain for another time. I wanted to say a little bit that there are great geographical differences in terms of the offer that may now disappear, and the need for it. That is also what the Consumer Council points to, so my question to the Government Council is well whether he has noticed what the Consumer Council has said. I see that the proposition contains a reference to the Consumer Council. Does it make an impression, and is it so that a spatial partial solution could have been possible? I guess we're not talking about billions if we're talking about maybe a few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8118	We've spent 11 million. kr on this solution. As I said, there were 30,000 transactions in 2020. The number so far shows a further decline of 40 pst. in the number of services in the six months in which we are now in. Obviously, if I were to charge NOK 1,000 and it cost NOK 1,500, it's problematic, I think, with that kind of service, when we see that we have such a good alternative. Therefore, the most vulnerable groups have actually been most important to me, and therefore I believe that the work that DFØ has done in cooperation with Nav and the House Bank in obtaining this payment card has been very important. It's probably the most vulnerable group here. So I actually feel that if you're in District Norway or central, one is kind of as vulnerable to that kind of digitization, but we see that it solves itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8123	I thank you for your answer. I also see that that card can be a good solution when we have nothing else to fall back on, and it's absolutely a solution that helps, that cancels, to say it like that. What I notice is that the districts have suffered in some ways still. Something is general social development, it's centralization, and what you're referring to, banking in stores, Post in stores, is also getting further and further away. That's how evolution has gone. We have had liberalisation in the taxi industry, where the duty of taxi driving has disappeared. It has become a bit of a limping district system for it. They see and notice this in the districts, that the offers disappear. That's what SV has been very busy about. My last question is about what the Consumer Council was also concerned about: Has the Government assessed the preparedness considerations in this case, that one should perhaps intend to have any alternative payment solutions when the digital age is also sensitive?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8133	Some of what's paradoxical to me is that the Post Home at Bømlo is relatively more important than in Oslo, and the offer is actually better there. I believe that if we had not built down the capacity, but had a large organization, large capacity, with little volume, it would have been too expensive. It's District Norway's most vulnerable to, because someone has to take that account anyway. When it comes to the emergency, it's also the card I'm calling, an important part of it, but we should also be aware that there are 30,000 transactions. If we think about how many millions, yes billions, transactions we have in our country today, this is a very small part. That is why I also believe that what is going on standby, as the Consumer Council here points out, is not really a problem that concerns me, but naturally we have looked at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8140	I just want to address this with costs. It's a very interesting question: what are people going to cost? Its fewer transactions, the more expensive it becomes, the more transactions with such cards, the less expenses it becomes per transaction – that's the way it is. I draw the parallel to the bridges we build to islands with few people, tunnels we make to towns with few people. We'll take that cost. There's few running through there. What does it cost per capita? There are huge costs per capita, but we take them anyway. It is a feeling of solidarity. I expect the Council of State to know well the term'solidarity' and I think he has his heart deep within the concept of solidarity. I want to challenge him at just that because the parallel to what we're doing in other areas is pretty big.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8145	Yes, but I believe that an Swedish State Council had put this matter forward with a good conscience. It's about me being concerned that we should have infrastructure in District Norway, but an infrastructure that really means less to us – and now we're talking about banking services in the mail handling, which are almost unused, where there are 30,000 transactions. It sounds like a pretty big number, but in this context, it's nothing – because we have other good solutions that exist both in District Norway and in our cities. Then I think spending many, many million dollars on making that kind of offer is actually a big cost for the Post. If we have too large a system, I'm concerned that if the Post is also competitive and provides good supplies, it's more serious for District Norway than it is for City Norway, where one can send the packages in other ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8150	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8157	I have to say it is very dramatic when you listen to the Central Party and the representative Mossleth here about how today's, like cynical, or falsifying government has obviously upset Norway. The party of progress has obviously also been involved in that fury, eliminating services and offering to people. Clearly, it has become very, very bad to live in Norway, at least for those living outside the central strata. I must say that I do not feel at all again in that sense of reality. I feel a little sorry for the Center Party, because it must be very frustrating -- if I'm going to try to get in the head of the representatives of the Center Party who have such a sense of reality. It must be very dramatic to really feel and believe that Norway is upset, that rural areas are almost destroyed, to say it that way, and that you don't get elementary services across our country. That's what the Central Party is trying to create, that's what the image they're trying to create, and I think it's kind of eye-catching. I wish the Center Party had been a little more specific about their cases. It is clear that there has probably been a media lookup somewhere about someone who waited 14 days for his bite. Of course, it's dramatic, it's not a nice situation, but such an exceptional case does not give a general and correct picture of the situation in Norway during today's government. I strongly react to that. It's obvious that the Center Party is getting away with it. They won't be confronted with it. I would like to know what kind of offer has disappeared where the representative Mossleth lives. What isn't she getting done where she lives now, as she could do just a few years ago? It is important to remember that what happened to the Post now, guaranteed had happened to a red-green government too, as Hareide said instead. The market – or society – is developing. There is no need for postal services. It may not be possible for the Centre Party to subsidize empty postal cars to drive around the country just to make the Centre Party happy, when they have no mail with them. I'm wondering a little bit about how the Center Party is going to finance it. How much money is the Central Party going to spend in its state budgets to sponsor the empty postal cars they want to drive around the country – as long as people don't have mail, the Post doesn't have mail to distribute and the Post itself wants to shut down its offer? Now we might be a little bit on the sideline, because Hareide has pointed out several times that this is really about banking services, but when the Center Party first brings such factors into the debate, I think it's important to point out that the Center Party is far out on the ground.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8172	It could be fun to start by saying that it's nice on earth – about the previous speeches. This debate is going to be quite amazing, and I wonder if any of the representatives have read or got involved in the facts here. Today Posten has 1 360 Post in store and 35 post offices. There will be 1450 new local stores in which you can get banking services. That means that there are more places where you can get cash or pay bills than the web that the Post has today. So, of course, it's not sure that they're all the same shops, or some more shops, that right now have Post in the store, but that means you're coming a lot, a lot longer. In this room, all of the parts are sitting and are very busy that we're going to digitize more, that we're going to simplify, that we're going to make things easier. That means that now we're sending on digital schemes, the letters are coming straight into the mailbox, digitally, and then there's less mail going around for all of these postal cars that the representative Johnsen is busy with. That's what's challenging, not because you don't want to drive around with mail cars and deliver mail. But it's the way that the consequences of what we're sitting and making decisions in this room make us get where we're going. Governments are concerned about how to manage to secure those who come outside and don't have that opportunity, and it's also the Progress Party very concerned. I think maybe I have a little more experience sending mail than the representative Mossleth, because I'm collecting pins. That's why I'm starting to get pretty good experience. I feel that it takes a little longer before they arrive or I get delivered them where they will be delivered. Sometimes it takes longer whether it is in this city or elsewhere in the country. But I have to say that as an example of this being the world, it uses the fact that you don't get a bite of 14 days in the post office and have to eat pot for 14 days, or that you have to travel for many hours to pick up the post office in your mailbox, I think it's been some of the challenge before, too. That's not normal. I experience that the times when such hopeless conditions have been discovered, good solutions have been found. I feel that the Post Office is forward-looking and concerned about finding good solutions, and I also feel that you are in a bank. The new local stores also want to offer good deals to their customers. It might be a little bit fun to challenge the Center Party. They had no more than one penny than the government in the framework of the National Transport Plan – we are going to discuss it by Monday – but here they suddenly have millions to do. I want to say, 'Show me the money' in their budgets. Where do they have the money for all the good stuff? They're not there.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8185	I want to remember that it makes a difference who is in government. I would like to remind you that before the change of government, the red-green government had vetoed the third EU postal directive. One of the first right-wing governments did was draw that veto. So it makes a difference who's in government. It's not like the Advance Party and others are trying to give the impression of today, that it's the same thing who controls. It was a clear signal that the Post was not to be liberalized. Back to this bite that several people have been busy with. Unfortunately, it is not a one-off case. This situation has been addressed by dental technicians at Fauske who make and repair prostheses to people, and this goes with the Post both back and forth. It's not one gebiss, it's been on many. And this is actually at Fauske, which is pretty central in Norway, but it's going to be sent to different places. Back to the lack of understanding that people in the districts experience and that the Progress Party hassles with. I guess there's someone in the Progress Party who's driving a tractor. I have received feedback that people who previously got parts of the tractor quickly and reasonably through the post, now have to wait a very long time, and it has become much more expensive to send it in the mail. It's not that easy to travel from Hamarøy or Finnmark to get purchased parts quickly and painlessly if you're in springtime, in the beat, or something like that. I would like to remind you again that a package that could have been sent as an A-mail, less than 2 cm, less than 2 kg, today costs three times as much to send to Lappa as it costs to send it internally in Oslo. In the Oslo area, it's the next day, until Loppa takes eight days. There are large geographical differences
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8196	As a summary of this debate, I have to say that I am a little disappointed, because I thought it was the banking services, the maintenance of banking services for the whole country, this matter was about – that the Post has had a system around it, and that it is now going to be cancelled and replaced by many other things. It is clear from the proposition that there are many other measures to maintain that service. That's what we in the majority believe is being done. It will be a market for these services around. But the debate has first been about some letters, which are a little related because it's Posten AS that runs it. Then you've switched to packages, which is a competitive industry. And you've started with gebitzes as well. Then it starts to get far from the banking service that was really the starting point. I hope that we will end this debate quite soon, that we have discussed the options that are. It's clear that there are alternatives to the banking services that very, very few use today, and that are going to be very, very expensive if we're going to maintain them. And that we're now getting a clearly better offer, has proved to be through many other digitisation processes that have taken place in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8205	It's under strong doubt I'm drawing now. I just have to apologize, but I'm a little over the empty rhetoric of the Center Party, the cheap, simple chocolate clattery. The post is being liberalised, it was said in the case we are dealing with today. It's totally wrong, the post is being streamlined, the post is changing in line with the society we live in. It's amazing that it's so hard for the Center Party to take over that we don't live in the 1800s, but we live in 2021. That reality obviously won't take over the Center Party. Continue to spread this false message about the closure of the towns, the centralisation of everything, and services where you live. I don't know where they've bought their slogans, but they're repeated and repeated and repeated, and the worst thing is that people are starting to believe in it. The worst thing is that the staging hall – or government – does not go back either, you do not require documentation from the Center Party on this cheap, empty rhetoric. The last thing I thought was funny: the post is being liberalized. Yes, it may do so in the world of the Center Party, but it is at least more efficient in the world of the Advance Party. Then I'm still a little curious, because I haven't got a response to how much taxes and taxes are going to be increased in the Central Party budgets. I can't see that they have an invasion to fund and subsidize empty postal cars and all the other things they're not going to change. I wonder what taxes and taxes will be increased and how much they will be increased. Well, at least that's not going to go up. There is no doubt that their calculation does not go up, and that everything should be as it has always been – no change. At least I know that the Workers' Party is a little bit more forward-looking than the Center Party. Even SV is much more forward-looking and offensive in terms of reform and efficiency, although they may want everything to be public – more than the Centre Party wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8216	The President will request that we in the Grand Chamber speak of each other's message with a somewhat more parliamentary expression than what the representative Johnsen was doing now. Siv Mossleth has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8223	It was clarified that we are talking about banking today, and that is true. Then it's called for funding, and then I just want to refer to the Central Party's revised budget, which is soon to be presented. That's where the representative Johnsen will find the information he wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8229	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8246	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8253	Thank you to the Committee on Good Cooperation and Rapid Treatment of the Proposition now on the tap and in the interview for the summer. This is an aggregate proposal which provides a good indication of both the progress of some projects, the need for new cost frameworks and the follow-up to request decisions. It is an overall committee that promotes the recommendation. In addition, there is a minority proposal from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, which I expect these parties to explain for themselves. In addition to joining the proposals of the Government of I and II, an overall committee promotes proposals related to the progress of the Mo in Rana aerodrome and the further purchase of air services at Stord Lufhamn. I will comment on some of the issues dealt with in the proposition. First of all, it's nice to see that we have a good drive in the construction of the airport at Mo in Rana. It's now set at 85 million. kr for planning in the revised national budget, and Avinor has been given responsibility for the implementation of the project. There is a strong local commitment related to the development of the airport at Mo i Rana, and it has been added to base 600 million. kr in contributions from the municipality of Rana and business in the region. The Committee agrees with the progress plan and considers that the aerodrome should be ready for opening in 2025. It is also important for the Committee to establish that the other airports in the region will pass even if a new airport is now arriving in Mo in Rana. The proposal introduces adjusted cost frameworks for several projects. I'm not going to go through everybody, just mention a couple. I see that the repair of the E16 Lærdal Tunnel is a very demanding project, especially because it is necessary to maintain traffic in the tunnel during the construction period. The cost framework has been adapted and the Committee also attaches great importance to the project being carried out in close cooperation with local authorities, industry and, in particular, the transport industry. The Intercity project Sandbukta-Moss-Zåstad is significantly more expensive than foreseen, including: due to very difficult ground conditions in Moss. A cost increase of about 70 pst. is mildly alarming, and there is reason to evaluate this carefully and see what learning points it is possible to withdraw from this project, not least to ensure that the decision-making framework for future projects is improved. At the same time, it is important to be clear that the project needs to be implemented so that we can now put in place this important route in the region and not least contribute to ensuring that the area is properly secured, which will also have a positive impact in addition to the railway project itself. I am not going to spend more time on this proposition now, but I would like to stress that there is an overall committee behind the recommendation – and that is basically a good conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8272	I agree with the rapporteur and would also like to thank him for his good cooperation in this matter. There is almost complete agreement on the proposals that are being promoted, but at one point there is disagreement. The working party believes that with regard to the new Mo-Rana airport, local authorities and businesses have already used a lot of resources to plan and facilitate the development. It has cost both time and money. Therefore, the Workers' Party proposes that the costs that have been allocated to it be included in the local grant for the development of 600 million. kr. Now, as the rapporteur said, Avinor is holding the case. The process of updating the 2015 pilot project is in progress, and we and the Center Party consider it reasonable that the work done can be part of the local grant. So move on to the other airport that's mentioned in the setting, Stord Lufthamn. It is great that there is a unanimous committee behind the recommendation to continue the flight offer at the airport in addition to the agreement that expires in June 2021. Locally, we see that routes need some more time to rework the customer base. There is already a good improvement in the number of passengers, but one wants locally to keep the purchase of air routes out of the year. There have been talks between the ministry and local interests, so they have probably been argued directly for their wish. But it is very important for the business community at Stord that there is an air service there, for it is a business that is both nationally and internationally directed, and they depend on the fact that it is possible to get effective both out of and into the region. I therefore very much welcome the fact that a unanimous committee recommends this. I am promoting the proposal we are part of in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8281	The representative Øystein Langholm Hansen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8286	This is a matter in which there is a great deal of agreement in the Committee on the issues that lie there. I would like to comment on a few small things – of course Ryfast and the case of collection, where you now have to spend 120 million. kr. If you had not had tolls at all, this would not have been a problem. Then you would have saved that money. The second concerns Ålgård-Hove and the Osli-Hove section, which we have also had in Stortinget. There has been a broad consensus on this, and the government has been told that you want to get started as quickly as possible. The councils answer about this, and that's good. Then I would like to clarify and point out that in the context of a new airport in Mo in Rana, the Committee also has a Roman Numeral Decision, III, to ensure that the airports at Mosjön, Sandnessjön and Brønnøysund are built after the development of a new airport in Mo in Rana. I feel that the committee is fully behind it. Therefore, I also think it is important to clarify that it is an important prerequisite to ensure the maintenance of the other aerodromes. The second time we give clear feedback to the government and the Council of State to get in place and secure an offer, is Stord Lufthamn, whom the Council of State knows very well. One of our colleagues had to run a little before the debate came up. He had probably intended to take the word, Magne Rommetveit, but he had to travel to reach the plane to Great. In any case, it means that he contributes to the presence of passengers on the plane. This is a matter where you have a very big local commitment. There's a lot of people who got involved. That is why it is good for a unanimous committee to have a decision in place, which clearly states that it is necessary to ensure that it contributes to the maintenance of that offer. Otherwise, I refer you to the comments of the Progress Party on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8299	I would like to thank you for your cooperation in this matter. The recommendation in this case has been promoted by an overall committee and the projects financed within an increased cost framework have been extended locally. But increasing the cost framework gives cause for concern. Particular concern is the situation of large cost exceedances on several railway projects, which are now the intercity Eastfold Railway. This puts Stortinget in a difficult situation. It's almost impossible to stop projects in a final phase even if the billions roll. Exceedance of costs on some major railway projects means that no more railway is built for the money. The increased appropriations only disappear in a lack of control. Routes still lack money for retrofitted upgrades, freight packages and environmental improvements, such as zero emission solutions. The centre party therefore regrets that there was no majority in favour of our proposal No. 3 to the Inn. S 55 to review responsibilities between the actors in the railway sector and the specific relationship between the Directorate-General for Railways and the Ministry of Transport. With regard to the construction of a new airport in Mo in Rana, I am very pleased that there is a unanimous committee which at the same time decides that the government will ensure that the airports in Mosjøen, Sandnessjön and Brønnøysund are built after the expansion. This Decision has been extended for the municipalities south of Korgfjellet, and all members of the Committee have probably received the comments of the Helgelandsrådet and the opinion of 56 party teams in central and southern Greece. There is also reason to be satisfied that an overall committee asks the government to assume that a new airport at Rana will be opened in 2025. That is a clear request. A proposal which did not receive a majority during the Committee’s proceedings is the proposal of the Workers’ Party, the SV and the Central Party that the costs of planning and competition for new Mo i Rana airport are included in the local contribution of 600 million. kr. The proposal shows a distinction in practical policy. An adequate flight offer at Stord is also an important airport decision today. The freight terminal at Vosebanen, E16 Lærdalstunnelen, E39 Osli–Hove and the cost framework for 30 new local trains are also important issues, which are being resolved unanimously today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8312	I would like to thank the Committee for a good job. I would like to comment briefly on some of the matters that are here. I am pleased with the approach that a Joint Committee also has to the issues that lie here. I want to start with Mo in Rana. This is an airport that will allow this region to receive a major aerodrome. This is one of a few regions in Norway that don't have that type of airport, and they now get it in Mo in Rana. I would like to say that local businesses and the municipality have played a very important role in promoting this project, and they have taken a big leap in putting local resources at their disposal. The Polar Circle of Airport Development has been entirely decisive in its work. It is important that local actors continue to ensure that this project is successful. So I would point out that the state has also taken a great deal of responsibility. The expected cost has increased by almost 50 pst. during the planning process, and the State has taken this increase in costs. The State and Avinor will also take the risk of increased costs during the development period. If the work done locally may help to reduce Avinor’s planning costs, local actors may have to deal with Avinor. I would also like to comment on Stord Airport. I'm registering the feeds that came from the committee here. We had probably seen that it was good enough to meet the needs of business with a different offer, but we obviously follow up on it as a whole big deal asks us to do in this case. So I would like to point out, as also the representative Mossleth does, that the cost increases we have are alarming, not least on the railways. But we're doing exactly what Mossleth asks us to do: look at the health, look at the cooperation between Bane NOR, the Directorate of Railways and the Department. Naturally, we are concerned about the large cost increases we see, at 70 p.m., relating to the project in Østfold. As soon as we knew that there would be extra charges, we sent a message to Stortinget last year. We did not believe that the increase in costs would be so large. When we now got the updated numbers during this spring, we have also gone to Stortinget with it as soon as possible. We also saw an increase in costs on the Lærdal tunnel in the Western state. It is also important to do the work on tunnel safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8335	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8340	It's a pleasure today in Helgeland and in Rana, and I know that the flags are also hoisted. It's for the Council of State to take it along. So to the cost here: we got into a pandemic. There is a significant funding from local actors here – 450 million. NOK 150 million from the municipality. kr from business. The economy and the municipality have already spent a lot of resources on the job they are doing now, and what they are asking for is that this should also be included in the contributions that are significant and that are a natural cover for costs. Unfortunately, I see that there is a minority who have agreed to it, but do I perceive the Council of State right when he said that there could be an opening so that even the costs incurred could be covered if you came under the cost framework?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8348	I share with the happy representative Juvik what we have experienced now in Helgeland. This is one of a few regions that don't have the type of aerodromes that allow to get bigger planes to land, so I fully share it. I also know well about this issue, because I know there are significant costs that both the municipality and the actors have had here. What I said, is that if the work done locally can help reduce Avinor's planning costs, this is something that local actors can take up with Avinor. I thought that it was basically such that when one has now said one would remain silent with a local contribution of 600 million. kr – I am very pleased about that, and it is impressive how they have managed to promise this – it is important that we stand by it when we have entered into that kind of agreement. That's why I think that when a tip of the local contribution, we know for sure that this airport is coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8357	I thought the council was positive and gave an opening there. I know that Avinor has already been to Mo in Rana and sailing – and even before the decision is made here, he has taken his first spade. I think they probably fold up their sleeves and want to solve this in a good and reasonable way. The sale here, and the government, should at least be aware that if you don't see the possibility to cover any of the extra costs you've taken, it can actually mean that you don't just go in by 600 million. NOK, but maybe up to 700 million. kr. These are actually the means one would prefer to develop a region after an airport arrives, but I am convinced that they are going to be on the split layer, and then I see that it may be an opening for some of this to be covered. So to the time frame, can the Council of State join in what the Government says here in terms of progress, which might not have been as clear in the matter from the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8366	Yes, I can. Our goal is that with the decisions that are now being made, we want to complete the planning work this fall, and we hope that we can start work in the spring of 2022, in line with what the Stortinget asks for.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8371	For the purchase of transport services on the Bergen–Kirkenes route, an additional agreement has been concluded with Hurtigruten for the first two quarters of 2021. Five ships with cargo capacity are usable, although there are some places where some displacements may be somewhat complicated, for example, fresh fish. Havila Kystrutten AS has been delayed and has been exempted from the service of replacement ships, provided that the company is able to assume that the first two ships are clear during the third quarter of 2021 and the last two ships in May 2022 at the latest. But I have captured concerns about Havila's lack of capacity on goods and poor or lack of capacity for refrigerated and frozen goods. Is there any reason for concern?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8380	I share the description that Mossleth's representative here gives of the situation on the coast route. The high-speed route has five ships in progress. I also know they work to increase that capacity, but they are concerned about how the summer market is going to be. We now see that the vaccination is going very well, and therefore they also believe that the activity might be even bigger, but it will be the Hurtigruten's assessments. When it comes to Havila, we know that they have had challenges related to the Korona and with completing the ship. It's quite right that Mossleth's representative points out that we hope some will happen in the third quarter. But I'm not aware that there are challenges to the goods part when it's Havilah. I will take that with me, but I experience that when their ships are in place, it will be in line with the agreement. We know that just goods from Tromsø and northwards are a very important part of the agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8387	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8394	First, I was so lucky to be in the line change, and it's not bad for someone who's 15 months ago was in the hall here. Today there is a great day for many in Helgeland and especially in the Rana region. I have received many messages today that the flags are actually hoisted. Helgeland is the largest region in North Norway that is not on the core network of SAS, Norwegian and charter companies today. This has been a major obstacle to development and growth in the region. It's also been a long process. Already in 2007, this idea was introduced to the Nordic states, and it must be said that it has been a long and winding road to where we are today – yes, 14 years. Large resources have been used locally. Not least, both the municipality of Rana and the business community have for a long time wasted considerable resources and are now expected to add another 600 million. kr. I record that there is disagreement as to whether the costs incurred should be included in the local contributions, even though I registered an opening now from the Council of State. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and SV consider that the costs of planning and competition are included in the local contribution of 600 million. kr. This should be a reasonable claim, so I'm a little disappointed that the majority won't support this. When Stortinget dealt with NTP in 2017, there was a total collapse in order to maintain today’s small airports in Lake Sandness and Lake Messa. This was also repeated in the last ownership message to Avinor, in 2017, and is repeated today. So this should also reassure those who are concerned about their local airport. I am glad that Stortinget has strengthened the government's position with clear leads on the progress with construction start in 2022 and completion in 2025. Today's decision to build a new airport in Mo in Rana will have great significance for Helgeland and especially the Rana region, and we're already seeing increased activity and optimism. This establishment is also crucial for the success of the region's major business start-ups that are under way. When I am so lucky to be allowed to stand on this platform, I will take the opportunity to thank everyone who has helped to get this in place. I've sometimes been on this pulpit, and it should be said that I may not be the one who is most often boasting of the government, but I will do so today. I also want to brag about the Storting, which together goes for this and has put clear leads on the progress. So now I just want us all and not least Avinor and local actors to be happy with the job, and I look forward to opening in 2025.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8415	It is very gratifying to hear the representative Juvik have such a commitment to a matter, and then the airport at Mo in Rana. In ‘some cases’ by the Ministry of Transport, it is a bit that there are both things that are happy and perhaps some that are worse. But I'm going to keep going. I also think it is very important that the Committee pointed out that there are no airports in Helgeland – that is, both Lake Mosjön, Lake Sandnessen and Brønnøysund – to be closed down because of what is happening in Mo in Rana. But congratulations on the day, to say it like that! What I wanted to comment a little bit is a fun thing on the Fosseban, which actually gets a little bit cheaper, I understand, and is done a little bit faster. All passengers of the train can enjoy it. Maybe there'll be a higher frequency on this path, and there'll be clearly better conditions for the railway in Bergen. Then it is regrettable, of course, that we are getting these cost exceedances on the Eastfold Railway. We're getting used to them a little bit, and we're getting used to the background because there's going to be so much overcost. Well, that's the basic relationship. But what it says, as we'll notice a little bit in this case, is the challenges Moss City has with these basic conditions. We're not just rocking the railway, but we're actually building the whole infrastructure of Moss – the railway may be out first – by discovering it before it becomes a disaster, and perhaps a natural disaster is being averted there by doing that job now. So we're going to have to drag it around and try to make it a cause for joy. Then I also have a railway case in Namsos and in Valdres. So that's where it has to be laid, but I guess no one remembers that there's been a distance between Steinkjer and Namsos and the Valdres. So these are old sections that are now being released for other purposes. What is important there, I think, is the Committee's comment that there really needs to be a real dialogue between local interests, then of course at the political level of the municipalities affected by this, so that good use of these areas can be achieved for other purposes, and not least that the railway has to pay the costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8428	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8445	On a proposal from the Labour and Social Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8452	The Facility is an important part of the welfare policy in Norway for people with different disabilities and health challenges. Responsibility for ancillary care in Norway is shared between the Ministry of Health and Welfare, which administers the Special Health Service Act and the Municipal Health and Welfare Services Act, and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which administers the Law on Social Security. As a general rule, a distinction is made between aids that are suitable to remedy/replace/compensate for a permanent loss of function, covered by the Law on Social Security, and aids for temporary needs for rehabilitation and rehabilitation, which are covered by the Law on Services and are the responsibility of the municipality. However, an individual and concrete assessment of the applicant’s needs and purposes of the benefit is also made in the case of an application for assistance from the Emergency Centre, and the aid may be covered by the public interest in cases where the same aid has several purposes. This is a system that essentially works well. At the same time, proposals point to concrete examples where the scheme does not work well enough and users experience falling between two chairs. It is important to resolve such cases in such a way as to make the aid scheme as flexible and adaptable as possible. However, the question is whether the solution proposed in this proposal for a representative is proper medicine. The proposal proposes to modify the sharing of responsibilities for the allocation of resources. However, it is unclear whether changes to the law and division of responsibilities between the State and the municipality are what are needed to make the service for users more seamless and unbureaucratic. Today's system has fairly clear and well-known limits on which aids the State is to finance and which means the municipality is to finance. Today's division of responsibilities between the municipality and the state does not have to be stoned, and there may be good arguments to change this. However, we should recognise that such changes will not lead to the cessation of all grey zones. Then it is more close to looking at other solutions that intend to create more seamless services. For example, hub works. by digitising the assistive technology area in order to create seamless digital solutions between users, municipalities and agencies. There is clearly a need to continue working with such and other solutions in order to achieve even more flexible cooperation between the first line and the assistance centres and to ensure that disabled people are provided with the best possible and complete range of services. On this basis, we therefore vote against the vote and do not support the proposals of the minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8471	Thanks to the proposers for raising an important case, and thank you to the case rapporteur for a thorough review. It is always a good driving rule for our welfare services that they are user-oriented. The agency has been the topic many times in Stortinget, and today’s debate is probably not going to be the last. Technical aids can solve practical challenges in everyday life for people with disabilities. Assistive devices adapted to individual needs may be the means by which disabled persons can enter the labour market or continue to work in the event of sickness or injury. However, the employment rate of disabled persons is low – before the corona only 43,8 pst., compared to 74 pst. in the rest of the population, and the situation has worsened during the pandemic. Now the employment rate is only 40.6 p.m., and it has fallen more than for others in the last year. Unfortunately, the goal of a universally designed society is far ahead in time. The Solberg Government and the bulk of the population, including the Advance Party, to which the proposers in this case belong, cancelled the deadline set by the Stoltenberg Government for 2025. At the same time, it means that access to resources for many is becoming all the more important. It applies to the individual, but also to society as a whole. When we talk about inclusion in education, work, leisure and the housing market, a good tool scheme is alpha and omega. It's about the ability to live a life of your own. So the question is: are legal changes and detailed management by Stortings, based on individual matters, what is needed to prevent anyone from experiencing poor service or falling between two chairs within a scheme with which user organisations are generally quite satisfied, but which can always be better? The Labour Party is not entirely convinced that this is the solution. We believe that a more dangerous way is to listen to recordings from user organisations, as the Stortinget did in 2017, when the majority, against the voices of the Right and the Advance Party, made sure to scrap the government's plans to transfer the tool system to the municipalities, or as the Stortinget did in 2018, when the majority against the voices of the Right, the Progress Party and the Left took seven concrete decisions on improvements to the facility, once again after the user organisations recorded. I therefore recommend that the proposers support the position on the matter, which is to follow up the decisions that Stortinget has already taken, in order to strengthen the facility.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8484	This is a very important topic. The representative's proposal takes on a very concrete case from the input of people who have had this as experiences. The two proposals I make, of which we are part, say something about the division of responsibilities, and look at the law there, as well as at the concrete points of transition – whether or not others should assess whether the aid already received can be maintained. We have to remember that many municipalities are very good at assisting the citizens in looking at what facilities are available, what tools should be sought, and why. Perhaps the big challenge is that — from specialist health services down to the municipality that helps with a lot of other things in the follow-up after, for example, stay in a hospital – are a lot of help you have to apply for in the Nav system. There are long lists of what is possible, and the challenge is that individuals often meet three different professional profiles and receive three different answers. I'm not saying it's like this, but it's systemically how it can theoretically be, and someone experiences it this way. Not because someone does a bad job — if you look at the websites of several municipalities around Norway, there are many who give good advice, good guidance, follow-up at home to people, jobs, etc., which is a good basis for getting the right tools. But when we hear stories like you have a walker chair, which somebody else thinks isn't necessary, that you have a normal wheelchair instead, then it's time to see if this is right in relation to both the law and the practice. And that is what the entire proposal for a representative is all about. So this can be changed if you make these little changes and adjustments and check out what's actually going on. I'll take up the two suggestions with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8495	The representative Bears Laabak has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8500	These aids are incredibly important. They are necessary, and it is absolutely central that one gets them quickly and that it is as unbureaucratic as possible. We are in the situation that many tools are connected to the interaction between the specialist health service, which is state-owned, and the primary health service, which is municipal. As the rapporteur was well informed, this case was dealt with on 30 January 2018. There, the Central Party was given by a majority in order that one would scrape the transfer of responsibility for aids from the state to the municipality. As the representative Lise Christoffersen said, it was decided to simplify the administrative procedures in the case. It's important for the Center Party that it's being followed up. We see no need to change responsibilities and hence the financing of this. What is therefore important now is that the proponents of the Progress Party should absolutely support the proposal for a decision, which could then have a majority in the Chamber. Subsidy, they should do so, because what is proposed by the Centre Party, the Workers' Party and the SV, is that the government should report back to the Stortinget in an appropriate manner and in cooperation with the organisations of the disabled, what results have been achieved through the implementation of the Stortinget Decision on 30 January 2018. It is very central, and I would appeal to the Progress Party to subsidize the vote, so that we can thus have a majority decision on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8511	The proposal we are discussing today is to ensure a user-oriented tooling system. There is no majority in the Committee for the proposal to review and present proposals for amendments to the law and sharing of responsibilities for the allocation of resources. As already mentioned, the responsibility for ancillary care in Norway lies with both the Ministry of Health and Welfare, which administers the Special Health Service Act and the Law on Municipal Health and Welfare Services, and the Ministry of Labour and Social Security, which administers the Social Security Act. The majority point to very important challenges of grey zone cases that make users experience falling between two chairs. The ongoing efforts to digitise the resource area can help to address and address some of these challenges. By facilitating seamless digital solutions between users, municipalities and municipalities, with the aim of creating coherent services, users will be able to meet their needs independently of the distribution of responsibilities between the State and the municipality. Like the majority of the committee, I am concerned that we should have a smooth cooperation between the first line in the municipality and the working and well-being seat, so that people with disabilities are given the best possible and complete range of services. I would therefore also like to draw attention to the fact that the government in the annual budget proposals submitted in the autumn of 2018, 2019 and 2020 set out the follow-up to previous request decisions. As part of this, the Member State of employment and welfare has worked on various attempts to renew and improve the ordering system, including: with the extension of product groups and the use of external stocks of State aids in municipalities. The testing scheme for an extended ordering scheme is now established in five counties. The testing scheme with external stocks of state aids has been evaluated. The evaluation shows that the scheme brings great benefits to municipalities with the availability of high-frequency tools, i.e. tools that are often used, and facilitates dissemination when the application process can be dropped through the assistance centre. The ETF has made good progress in the development of improved ICT solutions in the field of ancillary services, and a cooperation project between the Directorate and the KS was established in June 2020. The aim is to create coherent services to respond to the needs of users, regardless of the division of responsibilities between the seat of employment and welfare and the municipalities. The different main products of the project will be completed on an ongoing basis by 2023 and the benefits are expected to be realised on an ongoing basis during the period. A majority of the Committee proposes that the government should appropriately return to the state of play on the results achieved through the implementation of the decision of the Stortinge on the improvement of the facility. For the time being, it has only a majority in the committee and not in the Chamber, as far as I understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8528	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8533	The attitude in the matter is that the government presents a case to the Stortinget in cooperation with the organisations of disabled people and elaborates on what has been achieved as a result of the decisions taken by the Stortinget in 2018, and it is almost incredible that the majority does not want to be informed about it. Now I noticed that the Council of State was involved in digitisation – that was one of the seven decisions. The Council of State also mentioned the follow-up to the request decisions, but there are very short snippets that give us no overall picture of what the situation is like in the area of aid. But since the majority obviously don't want a case like this, we get to use the possibilities we have, and an opportunity is to ask the Council of State here and now whether he can give a slightly broader picture of how the decisions of the Storting are fulfilled.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8538	In one minute there is no time to go into all the request decisions, but they have been regularly queried through the budget proposals. But then I understand that the majority in the committee is asking for is not just what the government has done to follow up, but what are the results – has this led to something in practice? There it is, as a general point, that I am obliged to answer when the Storting asks. There's a lot of ways that the Bigholding can ask, and those ways that these parties' representatives want to use, we need to figure out what we have of concrete results if there's any questions about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8544	Let the debate on responsibility lie with the municipality or state, and rather think: what will the Council of State do in concrete terms? Now I know only two people who have contacted me on this matter – I refuse to believe that it is accidental, they are neighbors. This means that there are probably hundreds of people in this country who are at risk of losing their resources because Nav will not provide them with renewed resources. Then I see that the government parties will not vote for any things in this matter. Then I wonder if the Council of State will do anything to ensure that people do not lose their resources. I know that we politicians like to walk around the porridge when we answer. I hope the Council of State does not give me a so-called blah-blah-answer, but that he will be specific about what he will do because disabled people do not lose the means they have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8551	No, I don't want to give a blah-blah response, but of course it is not possible to say that no one should lose their help. The whole point of this scheme is that there are individual assessments, and it may, of course, also mean – it is an individual assessment – that sometimes this is a tool that we do not support or that falls outside the regulation. I get a lot of enquiries from people who point to that, and I understand that sometimes it feels unfair. Sometimes it's also wrong, it's important to say. When so many things are dealt with, and it's so important, and one should hit so individually, there's made a mistake in such a big system. I said a little bit in my post about what we can do to make it easier. But sometimes it's just that it's out of the law. We politicians have set a framework for what tools you get and which you don't get. At least then it's important that people know that then you're not going to get mad at Nav, which is related to the legislation. It would be better to talk to the politicians to change the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8556	So the chord change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8575	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8582	I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Committee for its good cooperation for four years and also in this matter. There are starting to be some debates on rental, temporaryity and Norwegian working life, and there is no doubt that we have a reasonable disagreement both about the state of things and about the means to ensure a safe and decent working life with room for all. I would therefore like to explain further the position of the government parties in the matter and can already reveal that we are not going to support any of the proposals submitted. The red representative's proposal is based on the premise that there is considerable unemployment in today's working life. Red has written in a proposal that over time employers have had many opportunities to undermine the trade movement, including the labour market. when the store opened for rent. And Red has repeatedly talked about renting, which they think is about itself. It is a cross-thinking that Red has taken the lead in working life policy with this type of rhetoric. In fact, rentals have remained stable between 1 and 2 pst. for several years, and that there have been no more temporary posts. The brutalization of working life against which the left-hand side warned has simply not taken place. The Norwegian labour market is largely safe, well organised and well organised. The general rule is full-time, permanent jobs, and today about three out of four have a full-time job. A report from the Institute for Social Research shows that the proportion of permanent employees has increased in the last 25 years. At the same time, there are no signs of increased use of temporary employment. In fact, there is reason to believe that there has been a way for several of the young people who have been out of work. When we took over power in 2013, we worked 40 pst. by women part-time. Now the number is 35 pst. And over 90,000 more women are now working full time. We'll also look forward to it. The government has taken several initiatives to discuss developments and challenges with the social partners. In 2019, a sample was set up to assess whether the current framework for responsibilities for employers and those carrying out work on different forms of association is sufficiently clear, appropriate and adaptable to the current and future working life. This party composite sample comes with its summer setting. The level of organisation in Norway is high in an international context. In the last ten years, the proportion of trade unions has remained stable at 49–50 pst. by the employed, which is at the same level as under the red-green ones. Before the summer, a working group of the Labour Market Policy Council shall present its assessments and input into how to maintain and, where appropriate, strengthen the level of organisation of work. It would be natural to take on board the ongoing dialogue with the social partners when discussing further challenges and possible measures. And remember: Nine out of ten thrive at work in Norwegian working life, and the general rule is full, permanent jobs. It's not being erased so badly, and it can hardly be called a layman's society.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8601	There is probably no doubt that the vast majority of Norway thrives at work. I think that also applies to this house. Now a long and tough campaign is approaching, and some may need compensation even if they never thrive so well in their jobs in government offices, in order for others to have a safer everyday life in their working life. The Norwegian social-democratic model of society has proved to be an outstanding success – in world history, I would say. There is a community model of tripartite cooperation between parties who are willing to commit themselves to developing society, to taking social responsibility and to organising wage settlements independently of politicians. There has also been a model that has lost the country through heavy and major crises, massive unemployment at the end of the 1990s, the financial crisis and the oil price drop. What we have also seen is that the parties have been willing to do in the context of the covid-19 pandemic, shows a social model that is strong despite many attacks. For it is currently being challenged, in several areas, by far too low levels of organisation in several industries, by the solstice of labour relations in many industries, and by unprofessional and criminal actors that are becoming increasingly creative and professional. If we are to ensure that this model of society remains in the future, it requires constant care, and that the political will to make sure that it remains strong – also in the future. One of the most important things we can do is to increase the level of organisation, and on the part of politicians, we can help and contribute to it by increasing the tax credit on the union quota, so that it is not more expensive to be a member of a trade union – as it is under today’s government – but also by stimulating in the law that trustees gain more power, more influence over important decisions at their workplaces, such as us. had the severe contractions to the rentals previously agreed in the period. We need laws that work for ordinary people, we need effective supervision, and we need watchbows that suit, like the trade movement, and like the Construction Uropatrol and Fair Play Build Norway. So with these words I would highly recommend the position of the majority, and then I would also like to address the minority proposals of which the Labour Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8614	The representative of Arild Grande has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8619	We believe that today's working life works pretty well. It has been a good contribution by the rapporteur, so I am not going to repeat so much of it, but I think one should think a little bit about that we are living in a time that has evolved violently in recent years. It's almost like the world is changing much faster than we can run after, and it's also a little bit important to bring with it, as well as that there must be full freedom in terms of whether you want to be organized, etc. In terms of professional organisation, I would like to see a development there, for example. the large organisations were not so involved in the political parties. It would make it easier for many to organize. Instead, there will be some parties who do not all want to join in and support. We are to ensure a good working life and serious business in terms of strengthening labour supervision, police, a-crime centres, etc. So that's how it changes. In fact, perhaps especially in the health sector and in the public sector, there is currently a great need to hire labour, for example, in relation to both skills and numbers, and then we also have to take on board the fact that that part of the world of work is changing. And it has to be voluntary to organize. The Progress Party does not support any of the proposals submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8628	I would first like to address the suggestions that the Central Party is promoting in the vote. There are important themes to be addressed, ensuring more permanent jobs and increasing the level of organisation. But what is central is that when we now have a series of debates, both here and in society, on how the Norwegian model is challenged, it is essential that we get a system-critical discussion. We have a system error that leads to this development. There was no such discussion in Stortinget much before 1994, because then the Stortinget had taken on much greater authority to direct the large lines of the labour market. As I have said repeatedly: it is the Storting that must take greater power, so that one can direct the large lines and thus ensure that the demand for workers is greater than the offer from those who live in Norway, in order to ensure that those with weak links to the labour market also have the opportunity to enter the labour market. It makes sense that the right party will not take up that system discussion, because they want to have a supply of labour that is beyond the need, and we know how it pushes down pay and working conditions. What is becoming more and more questionable is why the Workers' Party is not prepared to take this discussion — considering their traditions where the role of the Stortinge was previously very central to steering the large lines — and thus also to have controlled labour immigration from outside the Nordic countries. This question of the manning industry is a recurring matter. The center party is very clear that we want to phase out the manning industry. It takes a lot of time for us to get an education system that educates the professionals we need in Norway, whether they be masons, painters, butchers or gardeners. But we are therefore of the opinion that we need to amend the Working Environment Act, so that we can replace employment agencies with temporary employment agencies, temporary employment agencies which have anchored in the Working Environment Act § 14-12(b) of the Working Environment Act. [[2]] It's incredibly important that we do that, and the Central Party has an initiative role in this matter. Red hasn't played a leading role here in the hall when it comes to those questions. It is the other thing that has done, but we have good support from Red in many things.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8641	The representative Per Olaf Lundteg has then addressed the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8646	This has been a great opportunity to bring forward many of the proposals that show how we will change working life after the election. SV is alone about a proposal in the setting that deals with the limitation of the ability to hire workers and use the opening contained in the Working Environment Act § 14-12 [[5]] That applies to proposal No. 3, from the Center Party, and in and of itself also Red, which has a very similar proposal. SV is to control labour immigration to a much greater extent than the EEA Agreement opens. We are against the EEA Agreement and will negotiate a new agreement, but I would like to ask the proposers how they can be sure that this is the best way to control labour migration. And won't this proposal be able to give an untimely amount of power to employers, who can abuse it? Red is also tabling proposal No. 8 to remove the ratio to the average. What's the idea behind that? I see that the Red's own secretariat here in Stortinget is also tied up by a tariff agreement that opens up for this average. In many parts of the world of work, the average calculation is absolutely necessary, but we in SV believe that it is all right when a working time agreement has been reached between the company and the current trade union. I finally take up our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8659	The representative of Solfrid Lerbreck has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8664	Red has worked systematically to abolish work and strengthen the trade movement ever since we entered Stortinget. The first thing we got a majority for was that the government has to make proposals to increase the level of organisation of work. It was our response to the historic anti-union government platform, which stated that the government recognizes those who choose to be unorganized. While the government went after it, we promoted a comprehensive proposal to give low-paid employees in franchise companies the opportunity to negotiate wages and rights with their real owners, for example. Rema-Ritan. During the examination of this proposal, it became a majority to investigate how we can ensure that business owners have to take real Employer responsibility. This led to the creation of the Fuugner Committee, which will report during June. The government never provided a single measure to increase the degree of organisation. That is why Red took the matter into his own hands and promoted this package of measures, which will ensure more permanent jobs and strengthen the trade union movement. The Fuugner Committee is likely to describe a number of known examples and problems of unemployability. Our actions will address these problems. We are impatient and want the measures to stop unemployment to be put in place quickly. It is no surprise that the government does not deliver its own actions or support any of our 19 proposals, which would give a safer working life. That's why I'm glad the red-greens are behind many of our proposals, such as: to tighten up when employers can make use of self-employed and freelancers to circumvent the Employment Environment Act. They are also involved in important proposals to close down bankruptcy laws, which enable employers to get rid of collective bargaining agreements, and on a much earlier definition of seasonal work, in order to stop unemploying in fisheries and the green sector. With a new government and a new majority, this can be a new policy. But then there are some important and decisive struggles to get rid of unemployment and social dumping. Unfortunately, it is not a political will to ban renting. Here we have not got with us the Workers' Party. We also propose that there should be a requirement for collective bargaining in the case of public tenders, but that there should be little support for it. And neither have we had the red-greens to eliminate the possibility of averaging working time – a very important measure, which will stop extremely long working days, which almost only poor workers are willing to work on, and which almost no one can compete against. These proposals are being put forward as a solution today, and I take up the Red's proposal on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8678	The representative Seher Aydar then addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8683	There may be grounds for looking at developments in Norwegian working life in the last eight years. There are currently fewer temporary employees than in 2013. There is one way to say that we are bombing in a way, because we had a difficult debate in this Chamber on the government's proposal to embellish temporary employment. Many of us thought that this would lead to many more people getting the chance in their working life. I don't think they did it. In fact, there are fewer temporary employees today than it was in 2013. In fact, the proportion of temporary staff in 2020 was the lowest since SSB’s registration started in 1996. Today there are 90,000 more women working full-time than in 2013. If you look at the study on black work, you can see that there are several people who fear that they will be discovered. The acceptance for black work goes down. So it is not that Norwegian working life is inside a kind of downward spiral where everything gets darker and darker, rather on the contrary. When nine out of ten Nordics thrive on work, it's not just an expression that most people in Norway are doing well. There is also evidence that, in essential areas, Norwegian working life has improved over these eight years — not worse, as the opposition claims. But it is still the case that there are parts of Norwegian working life that are unacceptable. We have talked in many ways about labour crime, social dumping, those who do not respect Norwegian laws and regulations. We're going to turn that down, and the government's busy getting new tools and tools to do it. It is important that we, for example: to follow the level of organisation of work, we do it by talking to the parties. We are also a government that thinks we should talk to all the parties, including all the trade unions, not just one trade union, if you were to have close ties to a particular one. We have therefore started a work with the parties, where we are discussing a higher degree of organisation. In addition, Norwegian trade unions have had 200,000 more members since 2013. We have also launched investigations on our own initiative by the government to look at new and perhaps problematic aspects of Norwegian working life, where we need to balance flexibility and bring new industries to the fore with security. That's what the Fuugner Committee is going to be looking at. And finally, I'm jumping over some of what Red says. When attacking the idea of averaging, it has not been understood how the Working Environment Act has been built, where there are different thresholds for the individual worker, local trade union and the trade union nationally with the right to vote. Removing it would be so – ‘absurd’ may not be a parliamentary expression – radical that I understand well that no one in this Chamber supports it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8698	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8703	I think one of the reasons why there has not been such a large increase in the number of temporary jobs is, among other things. that very many red-green municipalities have refrained from using the legislation introduced by the government, but also that a very large proportion of those who would have been temporarily employed in the past are now rather hired labour. That might explain that you haven't seen the increase that you fear there. Another area where one feared a very big change from the government – Erna Solberg said that it was her greatest defeat as Prime Minister that year – was the narrowing down that Stortinget decided, against the right-hand votes, of rent. On the contrary, several companies are now seeking collective agreements. They're looking for more apprentices. Does the Council of State realize that the fears from the right when it comes to the tightening up of rentals were wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8710	There was no horror against the tightening up of the rent, all the time it was the government that proposed it. The government came to Stortinget with a proposal to tighten the rental rules. The differences were a little bit like shaving and cutting off the chin. The government's proposal was a rather strong tightening-up towards the sectors where there was obviously a major problem, and towards the geographical areas where there was obviously a major problem. So instead, the majority chose to make this an absolute law for everyone in all of Norway. I think many of the big companies in Norway are handling this right. I think it's a little bit worse for many of the small and medium-sized enterprises. It is one of those things that the opposition may not have in mind – a bit more surprising with a party like the Centre Party – and it is that these rules should also work for small entrepreneurs in Norway, small businesses, five-man enterprises, ten-man enterprises, and not just for the very largest ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8717	It must be a little difficult for the Right, and it's at least hard for the outside to see what the Right really means. You say on the one hand that you're making suggestions for the tightening up that came. At the same time, Erna Solberg said it was her greatest defeat. Margaret Hagerup from the Right was invisibly sad on behalf of the crew industry that day. So here, there's no right hand hand in terms of their view of rent. But the fact is that now that the new legislation has gone on for more than two years, we see that the negative scares that the right-hand side came up with were totally wrong. We have not heard of a single report on a single project that has been delayed or interrupted as a result of this, either in large or small companies. On the contrary, this has led to more people wishing to enter into collective agreements. There is a desired effect, and more are now looking for apprentices. The right-wing council does not respond to this: does he realize that it was wrong to warn against the restrictions adopted by the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8722	The answer to that is no. The representative of Grande was here, so it's a little weird that he can't describe what happened. The government presented proposals for tightening up, inter alia: termination of zero-hour contracts, strict restrictions, in particular for the construction industry related to Oslo in general. The then opposition did, was to go much further than that. If one asks business organisations, they have reported several times that this has real consequences and creates real problems. Now you have to be careful with anecdotes, but I met the Building Masters Association a couple of weeks ago. They described how this legislation is easy to deal with for the very biggest entrepreneurs, difficult for a family-run enterprise, for example. with 20 employees who do not have the same economic muscles. So the difference isn't between having a wildest and free opportunity to rent everything you want. The difference is between going as far as the then opposition did, and the government at that time put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8729	This was the Prime Minister's greatest defeat, the manning industry, and I think the Council of State should end with history falsification as to what happened. I've been with this for so long that I know exactly what's the relationship here. It is correct that the Building Masters' Association reacts, and rightly so, because after we tightened up Section 14-12 of the Working Environment Act. [[1]] § 14-12 can currently be used to cover temporary employment under § 14-9(a). [[1]] [[2]] That access now has to be tightened up, so that we get more equivalent relationships. Therefore, the Centre Party is on a proposal here, where one says that the Working Environment Act § 14-9(a) has to be amended back to what it was, namely when the nature of the work requires it and the work differs from what is normally carried out in the enterprise. [[2]] Do the councils agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8736	No, I don't agree with that. I also do not agree that it is history falsification to say that the government parties made proposals for a number of tightenings relating to rents, but the bulk of the population went much further. Then I agree with the representative Lundtigen maybe not in what is the most important point, but in his underlying point, and that is that temporaryity and rental are linked. That is, there is a balance. Once there's been a lot of attention in this room around temporaryity, and you've been busy with very tight frames there, it's very easy that it whistles out through the higher entrance rate. Similarly, if you're very busy tightening up on the rent, it's easy for it to pluck out over time through temporaryity. Then I am also concerned that while we have fixed, entire positions as a general rule, we need a regulation that small and large traders can live with.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8743	So the chord change is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8750	The Central Party Per Olaf Lundtigen makes claims about the Workers' Party's view of working life and the EEA agreement that I have to comment on. Firstly, our view of the EEA Agreement is that we stand on top of it. It must be a prerequisite for a new red-green government that we govern on the basis of that agreement. It was also very clear to LO’s recent representation that the basis both for the LO and for a new government must be the EEA Agreement, that it must form the basis. It is because there is a well-regulated agreement that ensures Norway access to a very important market for us. But it is also because – and that is what Per Olaf Lundtigen and the Center Party have misunderstood completely fundamentally – the trade movement is not a protectionist movement. The trade union movement is in itself an international movement that is about solidarity not just for me, but for everyone around me, and that is about protecting the little man, we have to protect the worker, we have to protect the family. It is the aim of the policy, and therefore the responsibility of the policy must be to protect trade union movement. I have not seen a single proposal from either the Red Party, the SV, the Centre Party or any trade union movement that is about preventing social dumping and preventing labour-life crime that cannot be implemented in any way under the EEA Agreement – not a single proposal. There are proposals that we do not support – including in today's debate, among other things. proposals that both the Centre Party and Red Party have made – placing responsibility on the EEA citizen instead of where it belongs, on the national authorities and on employers. The placing of even more responsibility on the EEA citizen is unsolvable. I think it's time for the Red Party and the Center Party to respond to the human vision it represents. The proposals that we are working with the Centre Party and SV on would represent a large-scale clean-up in the labour market. I would like to focus on how we can work together, rather than on the attacks that Per Olaf Lundtigen performs. The Workers' Party is the only party to follow up the Joint Confederation's national meeting on the tightening up of rentals. No other party follows it up 100 pst. That's what the Working Party does.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8770	I take the floor in this debate to take advantage of the opportunity to express my unconditional admiration and support for the Norwegian trade union movement. It's from a social-democratic point of view, but not primarily and just that. It is primarily about what the trade union movement has meant for generations of employees and workers in Norway, and it has contributed to their legitimate share of economic development in the country. It had never happened without a strong trade union movement – never. It brings me to what is at least tangential to the discussion we have here now: how do you create a strong trade union movement in a society? It is, of course, through the organisation of workers and, on that basis, it becomes so strong that employers and owners of capital have to take them into account, i.e. the organisational power. That's the one side of the case. The other side of the matter, which concerns us, is that Norwegian trade union movement has become strong through its organisation, and they have also become strong because through social democratic support for generations they have received political back coverage. It is the combination that makes Norway Norway Norway. What I have never understood in many discussions, even in the past with the Council of State sitting here, is that it is never possible to get representatives of especially the Right, and definitely not for the Advance Party – because they represent them with the money – to realize that without the stability created by the trade union movement in society, the value creation had become much less. This is not a Youngstorget product, this is what the OECD is now saying: look to the Nordic countries for how to organise the future. In the extension of this I just want to relate briefly to the representative of the Progress Party who says that it would have been good if there had not been so much policy in the trade movement – the old lesson from the right. The point is that the trade union movement must be politically conscious not just of caring for employees, not just of caring for the working conditions, but of participating in and participating in and creating the civil society that creates good societies for the whole country. So once again, we experience that the bourgeois parties are going to vote this down, in line with the historical tradition they are in. And that the Christian People's Party and the Left are on this load, they get to take responsibility for themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8781	It seems that Norwegian trade union movement is doing well. It is quite right that the number of organized people has increased — it has increased last year. But there's another number that provides the basis for alarming. The proportion of workers working in a collective agreement company has fallen dramatically. In 1998 was 77 pst. by workers in Norway covered by a collective agreement. In 2019, the figure had dropped to 69 pst. That means that about 250,000 workers have lost the protection offered by a collective agreement. So we're going against a two-part division of Norwegian working life. The well-organized part is getting smaller, the unorganized part is growing. When the unorganized part grows at the expense of the organized one, the trade union movement will eventually lose its power. Unlike the right-hand side, we think it's a good idea that the trade union movement has the power to fight for workers' rights. Continuing the decline, effective strikes will no longer be possible. The government does not directly combat organised work, because it costs too much to go into direct conflict with LO. Instead, the Right attacks indirectly the Norwegian model by supporting the manning industry, open to temporary employment, liberalising the taxi industry, etc. Good conditions for the manning industry are e.g. a heart issue for Prime Minister Erna Solberg. She admitted in the summer of 2018 that her biggest defeat was that the bulk of the population tightened the rules for hiring labour. The manpower industry has made great success in the construction industry and has shaved the organized working life. Here, the large well-organised contractors have been replaced by manning companies that have crimes as a business model. The level of organisation of construction workers in Oslo and Akershus fell from 21 p.m. in 2004 to 13 pst. in 2017. It is dramatic and illustrative for several industries with large amounts of rent. I just want to answer what Lundtegen said: It's history falsification to claim that Red hasn't had a driving role in what we're dealing with today. I refer to Redt's very first draft representative, who was just about to stop the staffing industry, and that we have had a positive impact in order to put in place measures to increase the level of organisation and stronger trade union movement, which is, of course, the background to the proposals we are dealing with today. The red-greens have hesitated up to a lot, but it's the right-hand side and the government that's standing in the way of results. The first thing the Solberg government did was to establish that it's just as nice to be unorganized as being organized. No Norwegian government has been so pronounced anti-unionist. Therefore, Red will continue to work to ensure that we have a stronger trade union movement and secure more permanent jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8794	When we managed to impose her greatest political defeat on the Prime Minister, it was the result of the Christian People's Party being on our team. The Christian People's Party was on our team, and what was important to them was the long line of the Christian People's Party, that a well-organized working life is the prerequisite for a safe family life. I hope that we will get into the situation that the Christian People's Party can get a clearer voice forward on that value base. It was then that the government – despite the strong pressure they had from NHO Service and Trade – had to reverse the crazy contracts of fixed employment without pay between jobs. Rents from crew companies must be terminated, and we must move to temporary employment agencies. It requires that temporary employment agencies have their roots in Section 14-12(1) of the Working Environment Act and that they can only be used for specific vicariates, i.e. the Working Environment Act § 14-9 paragraph 2(b). It would have cleaned up a lot, but it requires that a person spends some time on it, so that we get trained professionals so that we can do more without guest workers. When the representative of Grande attacks the Central Party for us to have controlled labour immigration from outside the Nordic countries, and uses very strong words on it, it's quite interesting to learn, because what I'm saying here was the Labour Party's policy earlier. Why was that? Well, it was because one wanted the Stortinget to have the control of the large lines, so that one assured that there was some shortage of labour, in order to employ the many who had a weak connection with the working life. This is an important discussion, and I hope we can continue it, because for the Central Party this is absolutely essential to ensure that we can not least get young people into work, and thus also avoid the situation where the appropriations from the Ministry of Labour's budget go as far as they do now, in many cases without improving the situation for those people who are out of work. Otherwise, I would like to say that the Central Party is involved in 13 proposals in the recommendation, including: whether to clearly define the criteria for the use of seafaring contractors by an employer. I just want to say in the end that the Senterparte is a member of the Ski model and its members. We can't claim that one is professionally organized, but we can demand that companies follow collective agreements, and it's important that we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8807	It surprises me that the representative Kolberg has not heard what I am going to say before, but I cannot expect the representative Kolberg to follow up on all the posts that I and others have. That's why I'm going to say this from Stortinget's pulpit: the trade union movement is a huge advantage for Norway. Having an organised working life is a huge advantage for Norway. It's an expression of our trust society, and the fact that that trust model isn't just central to our political system, but is built on the trust that exists in Norwegian working life, which means that it's a short way from a Norwegian trade unionist to those who decide, and that you don't go through five intermediaries to make a decision if there's something wrong in a production process, has a huge value for value creation in Norway. Then I'm probably a little bit disagreed with the story if you think that trust is something that appeared at the moment social democracy came, but it's not these three minutes enough to say anything about it. But I would also like to say that it is very important that we have collective trade unions that have both public and private in them, such as. LO has. And then it's important that we have an organized employer page. – That's it, and I'd like to say it again. But I want to send a challenge to the representative of Kolberg now at the bottom of a big session. The representative Kolberg talks about being a trade unionist and in a trade union movement is the same thing as being social-democratic. What did he say to them? 50 pst. in Norway organised in non-party trade unions organised in the Academics, the YS, the Union or others? What space do they have in this image? It's just to emphasize that having a tripartite collaboration actually means talking to all the organisations, not just one organisation. You also have to talk to the larger ones, and the larger ones are the larger ones, but they all have to have a place at the table. So finally, a challenge to real life. I think Red should travel around to those who work in the construction industry in Norway, and like for example. are on a wreck and have a long journey home, and then I think they're going to tell them that they're now going with the left-radical release project to eliminate the average calculation – abolish it, not have the opportunity to do so. Then you can try to count how many minutes that applause is going to last. My prophecy is that you don't even have to put the stopwatch on.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8818	The representative of Kolberg has made it clear – I almost want to say – that coercive practice of telling workers his history from the pulpit in Stortinget. I respect that, just as I respect and acknowledge the importance of tradesmanship in Norway through generations. The problem with the representative Kolberg is that it always happens when he's about to land and try to make his story a story about a right-hand side that stands up for the capital forces against the labour force. This is not right, because it is precisely respect for the organised working life – also the right of workers to choose not to be organised – and the need for a productive and efficient private sector that has traditionally both the right and the sensible voice in tradesmanship have been able to find good solutions, for the simple reason that the leadership of a well-organised working life and the income development of the workers are enterprises with surplus. Unfortunately, there are many parts of the Norwegian left-hand side – if you are allowed to say so – in these debates after time. When one hears the representative Lundtigen today, who competes with the Red Party about how far to the left he can go, a belief would at least give some new reflections to representatives like Martin Kolberg. In practice, such an active attack on Norwegian enterprises, which has to pick up part of its workforce outside Norway, will lead to a poverty trap for very many Norwegian workers. There is an active argument that we should have a working life that lacks people who make their working resources available, at a time when more and more people are standing outside the labour market, and we know that this is the biggest reason for outreach, poverty and social challenges. The centre party has ambitions to become a government party, and this is what they have to offer Norwegian employees. What is Martin Kolberg's reaction to that? There are active exclusions of people who can contribute to the labour force in Norway to continue building well-being for the Nordics and for their colleagues and families outside. Norwegian working life implies that politicians are able to cope with this balance, with respect for workers and the ability of workers to participate in value creation and not least the understanding that we need a profitable private business.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8829	It is a pleasure to be called. The Christian People's Party is still called for in these debates. It's not that we don't have a point, but that we won't talk all the time. The Christian People's Party is a supporter of the organisation of workers. I can only confirm that, and I hope that I am trusted in that. It's important in our country, for the working life here, and it's important with the international dimension, as the Grande denominator. There is no one in this room who is opposed to an organized working life, and that has also been clearly stated by the minister. But what we in the Christian People's Party don't like is a Marxist-Leninist device on it, where state and trade union go together and it's the same thing. I have grown up in a working family in Ålvik, Hardanger, where the union book was, branded, and we got this in with the mother's milk. I myself have organized our trade unions in my entire professional life – first in the Association of Nurses and then in the Association of Researchers – and the same applies to almost everyone in the Christian People's Party. But unfortunately I haven't been an industrial worker, so I haven't been in exactly those organizations. The Christian People's Party is for a good working life with good, solid organizations.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8840	It's going a little slow with me, President, but it's going to have to be tested.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8845	It's okay.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8850	To the Council of State Røe Isaksen: He believes I make the historical mistake that I believe that the trust society came when social democracy came. That's exactly what happened. It was not a trust society in Norway until social democratic Community thinking began to take effect in Norwegian political history, and it is only after World War II that that has been the case. So he hasn't misunderstood me in that way. It is my clear political belief that the Community idea represented by the trade union movement and by the Workers' Party has created the basis for the Community society. It hasn't been anything else. At least the right side has not contributed to it in its political history. Had they been on the ball today, they would have voted in favour of these suggestions, but what they're doing, they're joining the line of what they've always done in the historical context, that's trying to obstruct. That's the point. To the representative Dale: He has had a leader who has been Minister of Finance in Norway, and she was when she said: ‘The Norwegian model stands in the way of the Norwegian people.’ And then he's going to try to teach me from Stortingen's pulpit and tell me what's the prerequisite for the value creation in Norway. I'm not going on that, to put it right, because this is linked to the understanding that the trade movement in Norway has been involved in taking the basic position, which is not Marxist – and I say that to the representative of the Christian People's Party – that the market should be involved and govern the value creation of society. We have built on this the whole economic foundation, and also the professional movement's understanding of the relationship between employer and employee – for generations. There is respect between employers and employees in Norway. The NHO and everyone else are married children of the trade movement — and nothing else than that. Therefore, it is quite clear that these things are so closely linked that a strong trade union movement is crucial. Finally, because the time is, unfortunately, soon to come, the government and the majority of the population went into collective legal proceedings and voted against reintroducing it. This is the example that they do not want the legal authority of the trade union movement to be placed as it really should be. I could talk about that for an hour, but I have no reason for that, and that is why I have to stop it. Finally, in relation to the Christian People's Party, I would say that they are at the port of their ports, because of the historically incorrect decision on which side they chose in Norwegian politics – unfortunately. For the relationship, it's that the Christian People's Party is a welfare party, but they've entered into a cooperation with the right hand side, and that's what they pay a price for now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8866	The representative Seher Aydar has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8872	I would first like to thank you for the debate. In order to clarify: Red wants a working life adapted to all living in Norway, regardless of nationality and background — not a Norway vulnerable to dependence on labour imports with social dumping. That's what's at the core. I want to answer a question I've been asked about averaging. As the Council of State prepared, average estimates are widespread in the major industries dominated by rentals, just construction, construction and industry. It makes it quite cost-effective for employers to hire commuters. There's an enormous pressure on the trusted people to agree to agreements. That's why we have to do something about it at the structural level, and that's what the trusted people are saying to us when we talk to them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8879	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8884	The representative Martin Kolberg and I have developed in recent years a very common basic view of the relationship between market and expansion, and I'm proud to say this. It must be the elected Parliament that governs the large lines of the labour market. That is why the Central Party insists that we have to have a certain shortage of labour that lives in Norway, regardless of ethnicity, because it is only by doing so that we can employ those who have a weak connection to the labour market as well. When the Progress Party is against it, it makes sense. It is quite logical and entirely in line with their historical line, but then the Progress Party must stop talking about that they are working for full employment and the fight against unemployment. The Progress Party system promotes leave, and it has always done so. Social costs will increase with the policies of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8889	I regret to extend the debate, but it may be one of the last occasions I have to answer the representative, Mr Kolberg, about what has actually been a review theme in many of his articles. There is no doubt that this is the representative Kolberg's basic vision. I don't doubt that. Let me start with the positive. It is quite clear that social democracy was also an important contributor – the decisive shaping force in modern Norway, nor is there any doubt – to rebuild the trust society after 1945. If you go back and look at the 1920s and 1930s, it wasn't much that was influenced by trust then, but Norway had strong institutions and didn't get the radical political upheavals that you had in other countries. What could be the basis for that? Well, you can point out, for example. the main agreement in 1935 – what the radical left side called a major class compromise and a class deviation from social democracy. One can go further and see what is the basis for Norway’s ability to build a democratic nation — the 1537 Reformation and the fact that we had a self-owning class of farmers in Norway. We did not have the feudal community, among others. as a result of the black death. We had people who learned to read and write. We had a modernizing state of government through the 1800s. We had the peasant opposition. We had the left state, how much of the foundation for modern trust-based Norway was laid. It is absolutely right that when Einar Gerhardsen won an overwhelming majority in 1945 and the Workers' Party got its breakthrough, it was also a contribution to confidence. But it may have happened – that is, in 1945 and in the years before – that had nothing to do with social democracy, which also made a decisive contribution to the breaking of the negative spiral of the 1920s and 1930s.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8900	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 17. Vooting reference
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8918	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8925	I thank the Committee on Cooperation in this and many issues now in the time before the summer break and the election campaign. We split up quite early in the Committee's position, so I want to concentrate my contribution on speaking on behalf of the Workers' Party. Red has put forward proposals which they claim will give a more powerful trade movement, but which will actually lead to the very opposite. The proposal to legislate things laid down in the main agreement is a grip that will make it immaterial for people and businesses to be organized. To propose that the Storting should play an active role in the rights of the parties and weapons in the event of a conflict of labour is a development that I would strongly warn against. Recently, quite a number of attacks have occurred on the Norwegian model. Parties to the Stortinget have put forward proposals for minimum wages in Norway, leading politicians have come up with views on which workers deserve good pay and not, and are now being put forward proposals to review the legitimate weapons of the parties in the event of conflict, and that the Stortinget should play an active role in the issue of forced pay. Now it is important to make sure that not all wage formation in Norway is destroyed. The consequences could be a marginalised trade union movement, a less organised working life, increased disparities and more social dumping. Instead of taking over the responsibility of the parties, we will propose measures that increase the level of organisation and strengthen tripartite cooperation. That is why I would recommend the Committee's recommendation, which is promoted by the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV. This debate is taking place at the same time as a strike has recently ended with compulsory pay. The obligation to pay is very profound in terms of the established striker’s rights, and there is considerable disagreement about the basis and conflicting versions of what happened before the government decision. When the Stortinget gets the case under consideration, we expect the government to clarify the factual basis of the decisions, for example. whether the worker’s side has been contacted by the authorities to clarify the actual basis of the decision before the decision on compulsory pay was taken. When the matter is before the government, we will decide on it. It must be allowed to point out in today's debate that if our proposal on the ILO core conventions had been adopted into the Human Rights Act, the strike rights would have been strengthened, and the organisations would have a real opportunity for judicial review of the legality of the government's intervention, and whether decisions have been taken on a complete and correct legal basis. It must be the courts, not the political authorities, who decide whether interference with strike rights has been taken within the narrow framework established by the ILO Convention. The proposal from the Centre Party, SV and Red, which is in the setting, goes in the opposite direction, by suggesting that there will be more political interference. The LO has therefore asked us not to support the proposal, and that is why we do not support it either. Finally, I take up the Labour Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8946	The representative of Arild Grande has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8951	Norwegian working life should be safe, well-organised, which is essentially what it is. In the last eight years, the left has constantly tried to make a story of how the bourgeois government is raging Norwegian working life. A good message cannot be repeated too often, because the reality is that it is largely good to be a worker in Norway. Nine out of ten say that they thrive at work – which has been well established here today – the degree of organisation is stable at the same level as under the red-green, and the tripartite cooperation is strong. Today’s debate concerns a central part of organised labour and tripartite cooperation, namely the use of strike as an instrument, the protection of trust from dismissal and the use of house agreements and collective agreements. Strike and lockout are legal instruments, where the parties are responsible for the proper conduct of the labour struggle and do not have consequences for life and health. Forced pay is not desirable, and the authorities only intervene if strictly necessary, in order to avert danger to life and health. It is important to clarify that the parties themselves are responsible for implementing strikes and lockouts in a way that makes interference unnecessary. It is the health authorities that primarily assess where and when there is a risk to life and health, in the form of health surveillance, as independent professional authority. In the dialogue with the parties, they have found that they consider that today’s system is basically working well. Government parties assume that trustees must be able to work safely and not be subject to represals as a result of the efforts they make as trustees. The Working Environment Act already provides protection for all workers from dismissal on an unsubstantiated basis and prohibits further discrimination on the basis of membership of an employee organisation. This protection shall also protect trustees in the performance of their duties. Finally, I would like to make a comment on the tariff agreements. A collective agreement is an agreement between responsible parties which contains rights and obligations for both employers, trade unions and employees. Therefore, both parties must be able to assume that an agreement applies to the period for which it is concluded. It is an important element of freedom of organisation that organisations decide for themselves which agreements they wish to conclude, what they should contain and how long they wish to commit. Furthermore, each employee has the freedom to choose for himself which organisation they are a member of and which can enter into an agreement on their behalf. It is important for predictability and trust between the parties that it is clear how long an agreement is binding and what the procedure is if one of the parties no longer wants to be bound. In view of this, the parties to the Government do not vote for any of the proposals submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8970	First, I would like to address the proposal that the Senterpartiet has with SV. I would also like to say that the Central Party is voting in favour of proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party, to strengthen ILO core conventions in Norwegian legislation. We also agree on proposals to increase the level of organisation and to strengthen tripartite cooperation in the labour market. It is quite natural for us as a continuation and strengthening of the Norwegian model. We are fully committed to working to strengthen a responsible professional movement, responsible employers and responsible professional organisations for maritime business. It's a very important part of social organization. The centre party, together with SV, promotes proposals to review the use of lockouts and forced payrolls and that forced payrolls should not be used to undermine strike rights. What is the close background for the Centre Party to do so is the strike between the Parat and Trade Union, on the one hand, and the NHO Service and Trade, on the other hand, at the main tariff settlement in 2020. There the Labour and Social Committee gave its opinion on 25 February this year, and the way in which the matter was dealt with by the government showed, in our opinion, that one here has to carry out such a review. I noticed that the representative of Grande said that the LO had recommended the Workers' Party to vote against the proposal. The centre party has not received a single signal from the Landsorganisation to do so, and I find that rather regrettable, because it would have been interesting to hear what reason a user would have to vote against that proposal. In our opinion, there is a completely natural proposal in the situation we are in, where in Norwegian trade union movement there is a big discussion about the use of forced pay. So we're on proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox It is an important proposal that we have to go through, and the direct background for the connection is thus the main issue in 2020, where one had the conflict Ready and Trade Union versus NHO Service and Trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8981	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8986	For well over 100 years, tradesmen have been part of and design the Norwegian society. They can take the credit for a well-functioning work model, the pension system, the welfare system and, in fact, free education. I could probably think of several things. They have a lot to be proud of, and we can say that they've used the impact they've had, well. For the SV part, we will definitely preserve this, but also improve and expand many of the schemes. What is absolutely certain is that, without the strong trade union movement, the Norwegian labour market model, the pension system and the welfare state would quickly emerge from the gluing process. It's probably not all of us here in the hall who see it the same way, but I and SV are completely over-exploited about this. In this respect, SV is behind two good suggestions in addition to the plural setting, one of which is particularly topical now. This spring, decisions have been taken on several compulsory payroll students from the government. This is a very interventional measure on a central straight line, i.e. strikerette. The striker is quite fundamental to trade, and without him much of the real impact is gone. For SV, it is necessary that we review the use of compulsory pay and adjust the scheme in such a way that the threshold for using this instrument is raised significantly. There must be a very high threshold to enter with compulsory pay. Especially in the strike now, between KS and Unio, a critical question might be asked if this was really necessary. I mean quite clearly that the answer to that question is no. In addition, I think that several representatives here in the Chamber should ask themselves a question about what is the consequence of bullying too much with the strike. That consequence I think is far greater than many people here want to take over. I leave it with this and make the proposal SV is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e8997	The representative of Solfrid Lerbreck has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9002	A few days ago, we saw again that employers in the public sector are in practice entitled to veto when the parties are called to the Minister to discuss whether the strike poses a risk to life and health. The employer KS was allowed to stop a completely legitimate strike with nurses, teachers and other employees in the municipal sector only because KS refused to negotiate the strike at the meeting with the Minister of Labour. The union was willing to grant exemptions and was willing to engage in dialogue on how to strike properly, but felt that employers refused real dialogue. This is just one example of the fact that the law allows employers to stop a strike at the moment when there is a danger to life and health, instead of being obliged to see how the strike can continue. Now the payroll has been used so many times and on such a failing basis that there is a need to look closely at this scheme. We have noticed that the LO specifies that strike is the responsibility of the parties, and of course we fully agree with that. This is why we are promoting a new proposal today that clarifies that a review of the use of compulsory payroll and legislative amendments should be carried out in cooperation with the parties. It has never been our intention that Stortinget should assess the government's intervention in a strike, as the LO lawyers fear in a Facebook post yesterday. On the contrary, we want a clear regulatory framework for future strikes. Today, the employer’s side can simply refuse to negotiate how a strike can continue properly. Since the Minister is unable to interfere in the negotiation of the parties, the Minister cannot help but establish that the parties do not reach an agreement and cancel the strike, even if the grounds for claiming that the strike poses a risk to life and health have been made on a failed basis, or the employee’s side is willing to grant exemptions in order to ensure safe manning. That's what it has to end, because the employer's side has never had an interest in letting a strike continue. And it is really incomprehensible to us that the Workers' Party will solve this problem by appeals to the Court of Justice. At least it's incomprehensible that they won't even review the system we have today. We don't think it's a good idea that strikers should be fed for lawyers and stretch out in time. We want effective strikes where the social partners agree without the Minister of Labour having to stop the strike on a failed basis, as we have seen too many times. I'll take up Red's suggestion.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9019	The representative Seher Aydar has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9025	The representative Arild Grande had a very significant point about the Norwegian work model. It is that, unlike in many other countries, much of the Norwegian working life model rests on habits and agreements between the social partners. For example, in many countries. such that the left-hand side addresses a discussion of statutory minimum wages. In Norway, the trade union movement and the left-hand side are very strong opponents of it — it is also the government. It's because it doesn't fit our way of organizing. If the policy goes too far into the responsibility of the parties, it is not possible to strengthen the system we have built through generations, but rather to weaken it by actually weakening the influence of the parties and the incentive to organise on both the employer and the employee sides. It is therefore also my opinion that a review of e.g. forced payroll, which is a very serious instrument – precisely because strike rights are so fundamental, not only as a work right but also as a fundamental human right – should not start with a decision in Stortinget, but rather start with a process with the parties. For a number of years, there has been a discussion with the parties about what is needed to avoid forced pay. The signals from the parties have been that today's system is basically working well, but I'm going to take a new initiative with the parties, i.e. with the parties, to discuss this. Now that we're done with the specific case from 2020 that was referred to by the representative Lundtigen, we can have a more principleal approach to that kind of thing and raise it as a problem issue. However, issues related to, for example: It is natural to air with the parties to the minimum crew and other personnel. But it is also important to stress that the parties must have the decisive word, as they also have in negotiations. It is therefore also important that if the State has to intervene, it can be based solely on risks to life and health or other serious societal consequences. It's not that when such a situation arises, it jumps over, or now you really don't like the strike, you end it -- no, that's all that can be the reason. It's the Size Control function, after the law is passed, to verify that that's the actual reason and nothing else. Finally, I would just like to warn you that we are politicizing advice from professional bodies. When assessing the danger to life and health, we must rely on the Health Authority, the Food Authority, the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness or others – not on political opinions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9040	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9045	The ILO has long asked the government to discuss with the parties how to have a better system to ensure a real strike. We also believe that a better system should be provided to clarify the basis for claims on life and health risks before any decision on forced pay comes to the Council of State. We see that there are often words against words and claims in the media. That's why it's good that the Council of State says he wants to take such an initiative. We've been waiting a long time for that, because there was something ILO asked the government to do about the last time we had a case about forced payroll, where you hadn't guaranteed it. Why has the Council of State not yet taken that initiative, when it has long been expected from the ILO that the government must address this, through repeated cases of forced pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9052	I thank you for the question. It is quite right, as the representative of Grande says, that, among other things, in the 2014 cold water of the laundry bran, the ILO pointed out that there should be dialogue with the parties on different ways of avoiding forced pay. From the former State Council Anniken Hauglie, an initiative was also taken for the kind of dialogue with the parties, and to which I referred in my post, were probably the main features then that the parties, although the system does not always end where they want to, thought that today the system works well as it is. But I believe that with the fundamental respect for the responsibility of the parties and the responsibility of the policy in the Norwegian model, we must always be self-critical. We need to see if there is anything that can be done better, and if there are procedures that can be different in it, you should say, the state part of the case, and that is among the things I intend to deal with the parties at a meeting already next week.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9061	I thank you for your answer. We should want this to be in place a long time ago. But it's important that such an initiative comes from the government and not from the Storting, because if the Storting is to start politicizing issues related to forced pay, you're on wild roads. So it is absolutely essential that these are discussions that go on between the parties, and that the Storting does not settle a wage settlement in terms of legal instruments in a labour dispute. That's why we've also thought for a long time that ILO's core conventions must be incorporated into the human rights law. This has been proposed repeatedly, and we are also now proposing that dialogue with the parties look at how to ensure that the ILO core conventions are well respected in Norwegian law. Why can't the Council of State agree to such a proposal? Will the Council of State take a new assessment and perhaps include it in the party dialogue to which he is now invited?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9072	The starting point for not having thought it necessary is that we believe the ILO and the ILO provisions are well respected in Norwegian legislation today. We've also had this discussion several times here. But I also have the opinion that when I meet the social partners, the whole point is that we should have an open and good discussion. Sometimes we agree, sometimes there are contradictions of interest, it's clear. Employment is made up of a lot of contrasts of interest between the employer and the employee, also between different occupational groups. There's no doubt about it, but we're going to have an open and good dialogue. Then, of course, I am also open to discuss the ILO and its implementation. Then I just want to stress in the end, and I am absolutely sure that the representative of Grande agrees, that the Stortinget also has a very important control function, because when the government goes to the serious step with forced pay, it is of course important that the Stortinge looks at what the government has done and can go after the government's decisions based on the information that the government has received.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9079	We will have ample opportunity to discuss this when the case is available from the Council of State in the current issue of compulsory pay. I don't know if it's because the Council of State believes it politically, or whether it's because the Council of State is not aware of it, but it's not that the ILO's core conventions, in our view, are strongly enough in Norwegian law. If it had been under the Law on Human Rights, it would also include private actors, and not only public actors, such as today, and organisations that are subject to compulsory pay, if ILO’s core conventions were part of the Human Rights Act, would have the opportunity to try out the basis for forced pay. So the Council of State can decide whether he thinks it is wrong, or whether he believes it is not politically right to take such action, just to ensure that the organisations have the opportunity to try a forced wage-earning legal approach.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9086	The starting point for my answer was that the ILO Conventions and Codes are generally well respected. We're a good member of the ILO. Then there has been political disagreement between the government parties and the Workers' Party quite specifically linked to the question of whether the ILO should enter the human rights section of our law. I think that today's system has a good balance and ensures both the main responsibility of the parties and, at the same time, generally, has the necessary framework around also the times when the state will intervene. And then, of course, Stortinget has an important control function in retrospect. But as I said, some things I'm absolutely sure of, and there's my opinion hogged into the rock sheets. This isn't among the things where it's bumped into the rock, but that's our position.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9093	That's the line change. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9100	The Labour Party believes it is absolutely essential that we get the ILO core conventions into the Human Rights Act. It now has several issues related to strike, forced pay and also the lack of rights for workers shown us in recent years. In particular, the inclusion of the ILO’s core conventions in the Human Rights Act would have the effect of including private operators in its obligations. They are not today, and it means that very many workers in Norway do not have that protection and it protects them. The second is what we have seen in the specific cases, namely that if our proposal to include ILO’s core conventions in the Human Rights Act had been adopted when we proposed it, then the organisations that have been subject to compulsory pay under today’s government would also have the opportunity to try that basis legally – a real opportunity to try it out. That was the lack of it and the lack of a good enough basis in the conflict we discussed a few months ago here in Stortinget, when the Council of State entered with forced pay, which made the Workers' Party vote against forced pay at the time. Two independent strikers were combined and forced to pay for one strike were seen in the context of another strike, which should have been assessed independently of that conflict. This really broke the freedom of strike for the connection that was innocently covered by it. It was a strong, principled assessment that led us to vote against forced payroll. We will come back to that question when the matter is before us from the government and that again becomes relevant. The reason why the LO and the Workers' Party are so critical of the proposal of the Centre Party and the SV that is the basis of Red is that it will make the Stortinge take a role in both legal means of combat in a labour conflict and also the system related to compulsory pay. It is a role that the Storting should be careful to take, because it is involved in politicising an area where there are already major challenges to being able to ensure that we leave wage-fixing and labour struggles to the parties and do not make it a political issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9111	So we have witnessed that two major strikes in the public sector were stopped by forced pay. The Minister of Labour has not done his job to ensure a central right, namely the right to strike. There is a lot of frustration among nurses, teachers, kindergarten workers and others in the public sector, and they are asking if we have really been fighting in Norway. On the last day of the strike in the KS area, Unio was willing to make changes to the strike and grant exemptions. But since KS did not accept the offer from Unio, the Minister of Labour concluded that there was disagreement, and therefore he had to resort to the subject of wages. The two strikes, involving several hundred thousand employees in the public sector, were then stopped at short notice after two brief meetings in which the Minister of Labour actually gave employers the right to veto when it came to stopping the strike. We ask the government together with the parties to look at how to ensure that compulsory pay terms are not used to undermine strikes. Exactly what needs to be changed in the law to avoid conflicts ending on a failed basis is for the government to assess with the parties. However, the aim is to make more thorough assessments of the risk, such as: in the event of an automatic check with trusted local or central authorities, to ensure that the necessary information is on the table when the Minister is to assess whether or not to resort to compulsory pay. The Council of State has warned against our proposal. At the same time, for the past week he has proved that he is unable to ensure a real strike rate for nurses, teachers and other public employees. I hear the Council of State says that he likes to take an overall debate on strike rights, and in dialogue with the social partners. It's fine. What is unclear is what the Council of State will do not to be put into a situation where employers in practice have the right to veto to stop a strike.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9129	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9146	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9153	Since the Committee has not been able to agree on either reality or solutions, the comments on behalf of the Committee will be brief. The proposals in this setting have also been addressed by Stortinget in the past. What we agree on is that the welfare state exists to ensure decent living conditions while ensuring that no one falls outside. The majority of the Committee considers that changes in the many benefits and facilities of the welfare country have increased the social inequality in Norway. On the other hand, the Committee's minority view is that, in order for the welfare state to take care of those who need it the most, welfare systems need to be prioritised and changed in line with society's need to mitigate differences and provide opportunities for more. The majority of the Committee's recommendations, however, are that the draft representative should not be adopted. Fortunately, the Norwegian welfare community is more than the sum of public benefits, but there is also access to a good kindergarten, opportunities for everyone through school knowledge, decent and inclusive working life, a good and accessible health care system and, of course, a welfare policy that ensures decent living conditions, and that no one falls outside. However, the dilemma of welfare policy is precisely to ensure decent living conditions without creating barriers to participation in the labour market. Both the impoverishment reform and the changes in the child supplement for the disabled have helped to reduce these barriers. In the past, for example, the child allowance that someone received more than his previous income as defaulted. The current rules result in a reduction in the supplement if disability and child supplement total more than 95 pst. income before disability. We believe that it is unreasonable to expect that misconduct that can and will work should be done if they then receive less income than with disability benefits and child allowances. SV's policies raise the threshold into working life and reduce the possibility of participation, income and inclusive community at work. A sustainable welfare state is about the welfare state's ability to lift those who need it, as long as they need it, even in the future. The government has therefore made several changes to different welfare benefits and schemes, including to make them fairer or more targeted. When SV e.g. wanting to reverse the changes in the physiotherapy system means going back to the unfair diagnostic list that gave free physiotherapy to some, while many with chronic diseases and severe health disorders were kept out. Nor was there necessarily any correlation between diagnosis and the need for physiotherapy. That is why the list was removed. We lowered the free-card limit for everyone, and the age limit for exemptions was raised, so 9 000 children became exempt. SV calls this an unsocial cut for those who then got the same proportion as everyone else, while we believe it is an improvement for the many who fell outside earlier. In 2013, almost 70,000 recipients were losing their rights to their red-green pay because the red-greens had not followed up on the scheme. When the scheme was evaluated, labour scientists Simen Markussen said: ‘AAP is a treadmill out of work, where it is accepted that you cannot work and where people are locked inside the outside closet.’ Changes were made to the AAP to prevent people from being locked up in poverty. So this is going to reverse SV. We believe it is unsocial not to make the necessary changes to schemes that act as a treadmill out of work. With regard to the reduction in the budget for medical consumables, it did not lead primarily to a reduction in the profits of suppliers after renegotiation of the contracts, nor to a reduction in the supply. But this is also being produced as an unsocial cut. The objective must be the best possible quality at the best possible price, not that all the public offer is to be as expensive as possible. Therefore, there is also a false contrast between tax relief and well-being, as the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV put it. These lots were governed by historically high oil prices, the income from inheritance taxes and higher income from both property taxes, corporate taxes and personal taxes. Nevertheless, health cows increased, and there were 15 000 more poor children in Norway on their watch. Increased taxes obviously do not provide more well-being, at least not when these three govern. Government parties have lowered taxes, increased child welfare and reduced health cows. There is no contrast between tax relief and welfare. There is therefore no need to change this policy either. Therefore, the government parties do not support the majority position here either – I'm sorry, I'm wrong, the majority vote is rejecting the proposals. We do not support any of the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9177	Thank you to the President-in-Office for a thorough review of the content of the case and its own position. Thanks also to the proposal providers from SV. Over the course of its eight years, the Solberg government has set something that could be called Norway's record in social well-being. In the last year, unfair welfare shots have come a little under the shadow of the covid-19 situation. That's unfortunate, because the social differences have not disappeared through the pandemic. On the contrary, they have been reinforced in many areas. Unemployment is sky high. Those who stood furthest away from the labour market have ended up in line even further during the year that has passed. The government has even seen need to make derogations from part of the welfare cuts it has carried out. The cuts in holiday pay for the unemployed and the tightening up of the redundancy pay scheme are two examples. But the exceptions are only temporary. Many suggest that many of the exceptional measures disappear on 30 September. The working party believes it is important not to follow such date stamping slavishly but to ensure that the measures last as long as necessary. By 30 September we also know more about what kind of government we get after the election. If there is a government led by the Workers' Party, we will start the laborious job of closing the gaps that the Solberg government has created in our social security network. Most people realize that it will be difficult to correct billions of usocial cuts during one year's budget. That is why we believe it is important to give priority to what is most urgent, and this must be done in the context of the annual budgetary processes. Suggestions without money give no change and thus little meaning. In the period since the Solberg government took over in 2013, we have, as I said, experienced a continuous period of unfair cuts in welfare, from one government budget to the other. One of the very first Erna Solberg did, as early as 2015, with hallelujarop from the Advance Party and the supporting parties Christian People's Party and Left, was to take the holiday money from the unemployed and tax termination benefits for people who lost the job. That's $2.50. kr in welfare benefits that went right into the pockets of the richest, who have been tax cut every year since the Solberg government joined. We see how the right-hand side of Norwegian policy consistently chooses sides – the rich over ordinary people. The proposers in this case list a wide range of social benefits where the right-wing government has systematically cut the welfare of most people – cut social benefits for the disabled, including child allowances and lifestyle adjustment, reduced purchasing power for pensioners, cut redundancy payments, cut social benefits for lone dependants, child glasses and car support schemes for disabled people. Many other cuts in welfare schemes could have been added, for example: the heartbreaking cut in additional social benefits for persons living in short-term living in Norway, such as: persons in the 80s who had had such social benefits for ten years or more, lost the small social benefits they had, from one day to the next. The government often uses – and so does the previous speaker – the sustainability of the welfare state as an argument for its cuts. The sustainability of the welfare state is basically a great concept of quality in Norwegian society. The Labour Party wants a stronger public well-being. According to the purpose paragraph of popular interest, it is not a question of cutting but of providing increased financial security for unemployment, sole care for children, sickness and injury, disability and old age, help for self-help and cohesion of income between groups. The sum of the eight budgets of the Solberg government is different. The lowest incomes shall slow down aft. The right-hand side does not re-distribute from those with high incomes to those with low incomes, as we usually associate with enhanced well-being, but vice versa. The sum of government's policies has made it harder for ordinary people to live their lives. The social differences are increasing. The Labour Party has its own proposal in this case. We are asking for an overview of the consequences of all these welfare measures for ordinary people in the last eight years. We have suggested the same thing before, but the bulk of the population is obviously not interested in getting such facts on the table. I am still trying a hopefully last time to discuss the Workers' Party's proposal in the matter, and I hope that the Workers' Party will be responsible for following it up until the fall.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9194	The representative Lise Christoffersen has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9199	In Stortinget it is usually wide connecting to the taskbar. The line of work is very much asking that it be paid to work. The problem is that every time there is a practical policy to be used here, it's not that busy. Working means not having to pay for performance rather than being at work. That is the practical consequence. The proposal is about correcting in social welfare. The representative Lise Christoffersen went through a series of changes that have been made, which the Progress Party has been involved in taking responsibility for, and which we are still doing. It's about prioritizing measures that can actually quickly help people get into work, and it pays off to work. It means when a person is given resources that can be used to reduce waiting time and waiting lists for medical treatment in hospitals. This means that people who are temporarily out of work come back faster. This means that even those with the lowest incomes can have children in kindergarten and enter the labour market, strengthening the municipal economy that facilitates welfare services across the country, new health care places and strengthening elderly care and massive efforts at challenge and research to qualify new generations for a different working life from the previous generation. Targeted strengthening of the well-being of our society is what this is all about. In fact, the ability to prioritize -- we've done that. We have both increased growth in the economy by facilitating private business, ensuring that taxes are kept down so that labour incentives rise, and not least so that more and more people invest their capital in creating new jobs so that more and more people can choose a working life where they are more able to support themselves and their own families. When we know that work is the greatest success factor for welfare development for the individual and his family, the workline needs to have the practical consequence that a tore to stand up for it even when it may be demanding. I share the opinions of those who think that we always have to know what we're doing, and whether the decisions we've taken have had unfortunate side effects that one can possibly fix. There is also a reason why the Progress Party in this setting has made a proposal for an independent evaluation of the misreform, in order to allow a possible adjustment of the price of individual items where they are found to have unintended effects. It happens that the policy has. Unintentional effects are usually an expression of politics. It has also been the point of a policy that actively ensures that we can create new jobs in this country, make sure that our welfare society is turned into qualifying people for work instead of having a policy that makes sure that it pays to be on social welfare. We must be happy with the coming decades, too, if we are to have a welfare society that allows us to make room for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9210	The representative should take up the proposal he spoke about, should he?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9215	I tried to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9220	The representative, Jon Georg Dale, then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9225	Then I'll first deal with the proposal of the Center Party, which we have with SV. I would like to thank you for the fact that this important representative proposal has been addressed by SV. One of the key core values of the welfare society is that the community presents economic and moral values for those who, for various reasons, are unable to participate in profitable work, and, furthermore, that the welfare state acts in such a way that trust between citizens and the public is strengthened and not weakened by increasing mistrust of the functioning of the system. General demands for fair treatment are fundamental and need to be strengthened, and when I say that, it is because there is now a need for a fundamental review of how Nav works. There should be one door in, it hasn't been – there hasn't been one door in to get assistance for those people who have complex needs and who really need a human being to talk to. The first line must therefore be strengthened, the offices must be open, there must be more professionals in local offices in urban areas and municipalities, and local professionals must have responsibility and authority in matters that are time-limited. There are so many messages we get about how Nav works in practice, that there is at least something new government – whether it be one or the other – has to take hold of, because the intention of Nav has not been followed up. One of the most visible examples of government priorities is the change in the child supplement of the disabled. Everyone has the right to an economically worthy growth for the small roles, but what we're experiencing is that today's government is ideologically driven and not justified. The representative Dale was a good example of it: he's hammering in that it's going to pay off to work, anyway. It can't be run that way, you have to see what the practical conditions are. The practical relationship is that a number of people who are dissatisfied have had a job that has given low income. When one is also responsible for a lot of small roles, we can't run that principle out to the extreme. I see that the Christian People's Party has managed to dampen the path further down on this system, but you world: I had hoped that the Christian People's Party could have been with the opposition here and provided greater economic dignity for the families who have several small roles to take care of, while the income base before the disability was weak. That, I think, is one of the most visible examples of unworthy prioritisation and ideological policy. Of other proposals I would like to mention, the issue of the housing support scheme, which is essential for our improvement. This also applies to the car support scheme for people who need a car in Group 1 in order to break an isolated life and improve their daily life functions. It is quite unworthy that we have had to give priority to the way the government has done, and not give these people a functional car so that they get out. Finally, there is the question of redundancy payments. It is clear from proposal No. 10, which only the Swedish People's Party and the Central Party are behind – I am very surprised that the Workers' Party is not involved in that proposal – that the Stortinget ‘asks the government to carry out a thorough evaluation of the system of redundancy payments and to return to the Stortinget in an appropriate way’. [[AAP]] It's a system that we get so many enquiries about, it's a system that has so many weaknesses, it's a system that has so weak follow-up, and it's a system that goes over so long for those who are affected. As it is today, many people end up spending the time where it is the state that is responsible, and then they have to go into a standstill period where one has nothing but social support or friends, comrades and family to live on. And so we're going to experience that in the setting, it's just the center part and the SV that agree that this has to be reviewed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9242	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9248	We never know when in life we need extra support. When this happens, the community is supposed to be set up, and people are going to be safe. Our safety net has been decisive because Norway has been a country with relatively small differences and high trust between people. Now, eight years have passed with a government that has taken away order and cut holes in the safety net. This increases the differences. Sick people have had less to live off, and more and more children grow up in poor families. This unsocial policy is destroying something of the very best with Norway. SV says it's urgent to do something to stop these increasing differences. The list of non-social cuts that must be reversed is long. We have many suggestions in the configuration. People with low incomes and high building costs have had less support, less money to support their kids through cuts in the children's supplement. This is extra unfair because it affects children, and because parents of these kids can't choose to work a little extra because health is too bad. Children have been cut in spectacles, people who need a car to get a better and easier everyday life have been cut off in the car support system. There are cuts in the system of free physical therapy, in the scheme of support for dental regulation for children and in the scheme of dental check-ups for the elderly. In this way, well-being becomes less accessible to those who need it the most, and cutting the redundancy money frameworks the most vulnerable in the society we live in. This is a cut that hasn't made sure that more people have come to work, but that more people have gotten into social assistance and disability. I see that SV stands alone on many proposals in this matter, including the reversal of the non-social cuts in work clearance money. It surprises me that the Labour Party, which has previously been on the team with us in this matter, is not voting for this now. SV has repeatedly put forward a number of proposals to reverse unsocial cuts and to give an economic boost to those groups in society that need it the most. With this I take up the proposal No. 11-14, from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9263	The representative Solfrid Lerbreck has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9268	Although this case is a serious rematch in ten points, the headline of this post is that we live in the world's best country. We have a state that sets up when we need it. SV calls all the adjustments in the statements for social welfare, and now we hear that the Workers' Party has put itself on the same rhetoric. It's too simple. The best way out of poverty is work. For this reason, the government is making a great effort to stimulate work and introduce measures that reduce the number of people falling outside the labour market. Assistive technology support is still provided, adjustments are made, e.g. where the bill does not comply with the actual and necessary additional costs. The adjustment of the spectacle bump was a big thing, but is a example of the necessary adjustment. Without a ceiling on the spectacle, we saw that the prices of such glasses were rolling in the weather. Spectacle support now provides a reasonable price for glasses, and more people benefit from the scheme. The aim of job redundancy is to clarify job opportunities as quickly as possible. Three years from Nav must be sufficient time to work well for most people. But in individual circumstances, we see that it's not enough, like, for example. if you are waiting for treatment, and then you can apply for a longer period of time, up to two years. So not all modifications to support schemes are unsocial cuts, as SV stamps them. Adjustments are often necessary both for the context of the legislation and not least when you see how the rules work over time in practice. The Christian People's Party wants good and secure welfare arrangements for people who have health challenges and need help for a worthwhile life. We will not vote for the proposals in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9283	I would like to do that, but it is not possible in 5 minutes to go through absolutely all of these proposals. I would like to take some general points first, so I will see if I am concerned with some of the individual proposals. The first is that actually running policies is also about prioritizing. If we are to focus on new things, to strengthen new welfare areas over public budgets, it is often the case that something needs to be downgraded. If you, for example, shall establish a system of user-controlled personal assistance, which the previous government has not been able to do – it costs 700 to 800 million. kr or something like that – you have to find money for it. Priority should be given to bringing down health cows and to speeding up their return to treatment, introducing package pathways that reduce the uncertainty in cancer treatment. If you want to increase the housing support system, which has actually been strengthened over several years, and which has now made us fewer who are left without a roof over our heads, you actually have to give it priority. If you are to have a serious interest in alcohol and in the follow-up of some of the most vulnerable in our society – where what you can call class distinctions or at least social differences in Norway, is to be seen in all its glaring contrast and as clearly as possible, through a difference in life expectancy between a drug user and the average population of up to 15–20 years – you really need to give priority. To strengthen the fight against bullying and to increase early school participation, priority must also be given to this. My point with that is to say that it is quite easy to point to one side of the case, but it is a bit hollow when you do not also point to the other. My second point is that it's worth working. I fully agree with Mr Lundtegen that it is not possible to do so in any case. If, for example: For those who lost their jobs in Norway, taking up a job in a low-wage job – Norwegian agriculture, for example. are among those who have the lowest statutory minimum wage, i.e. wage paid on a collective basis – they would have to drastically reduce the day-to-day pay. We can't do that. So it's not possible to do it in any case, but it's important to have the line of work and that it's worth working, as a guide to our welfare policy. I think it's an aspect that sometimes goes away. When, for example, set a limit on what you could get in sum of disability and child supplement of 95 pst. Of what you had in the past, it is quite right that for some it was a reduction, but you also have to ask yourself if it is reasonable if you get more paid out of work than if you are in the workplace. What I sometimes think is missing when we discuss these things, are all those who go to work and get paid, maybe have kids, maybe don't have so many around to support, but who don't get any child supplement other than child welfare, moderated pediatric prices and the things that most people are entitled to if you're in a particular income group. So it has to be a match. There must be a justice in our welfare systems in view of those who are at work and do not necessarily have the highest wages. In the end, I would like to say a little bit about it with the follow-up and research on the disability reform and on the redundancy pay and the conversion of the AAP. This is something that is done continuously. As a government council, I can say that sometimes it can actually be a little uncomfortable. Nav publishes continuous research reports. They have a publication called Work and Welfare, in which they already publish reports, statistics and analyses of how, for example: The changes in AAP have been disabled until now. It's not quite possible to see the whole effect, but until now. I have also given a full explanation to the Stortinget about the consequences of the misreform – as the opposition party at that time, among others. On the right, there was a presence under the Stoltenberg government – and that shows the effect of it, among other things. that several people have worked a little more and received a slightly higher income, which was the intention behind it. There's a lot of research going on. The reason why it's unpleasant is that it's not always like that in politics that exactly what you had hoped was just what you wanted, but there's no reason why we politicians should stop trying to figure out how the policy actually works.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9296	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9301	Both the representative Heidi Nordby Lunde and the state council themselves put great emphasis on the point that it is worth working. For example, a user used the children's supplement to destroy, where one set a limit of 95 pst. of what had previously been in income. But that's the way it is, councillor, that those who got something more before were, first of all, very, very few, and, second, very, very low incomes. If one ignores the slightly special cases, which are absolutely not typical, what social welfare schemes do we have, or have we had, that give more in the wallet for the individual than the income from their own work – well, notice provided that the job is in a serious business with a decent salary level?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9306	When I talk about this, I also assume that you follow a normal Norwegian salary level. I don't assume you break what are common principles for that. However, there have been several reports – and the representative would like to ask me a written question about this too, so that it can be presented – such as: have pointed out that for families with children, the combination of benefits combined with social assistance and various other support schemes may in some cases bring you very close to what you will get in the labour market, and especially if you compare with a normal employee, who may be a nursery assistant, shopkeeper – important occupations in Norwegian society, but in no way highly paid. This is not a problem for which the Workers' Party is also a stranger. Rather, it has been an important reason for the Workers' Party for many years that there must be a reasonable relationship between what you get in benefits and what you can get in employment, and then it can not only be the most solid middle-class salaries that are the starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9311	In many ways, I share the views of the Council of State on priorities, but the Council of State also clearly says that there is not always a complete internal hit with everything going on. Sometimes it has some unintended effects. The question then is: Give the relatively humble attitude of the Council of State, what is the basis for his not being with the Progress Party on our proposal today to have an independent evaluation of the effects of the misreform, and possibly a possibility of correcting the differences there?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9316	The reason for that is simply, as I said, that we are already doing this, and it is reported to Stortinget – now I'm going to see if I can find the right reference. This was a bad reform that came in 2011, and I guess that's what the representative is looking for. Now I can't find it in my papers, but it has been reported thoroughly back to Stortinget, also on the effect of it. That's because Nav, among other things, and our system is rigged so that we make continuous assessments. We do not have a large research project or a large evaluation, but at least it is often carried out by evaluations, in particular by major policy implementations.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9321	I am pleased that the Council of State stressed justice and not ideology when it came to measuring child supplements for the disabled. But what I think is strong is when the Council of State so easily compares the economic situation of disabled people who are responsible for many small roles, and full employment who are responsible for many small roles. There are two widely differing situations. It's very difficult to get dissatisfaction today, it takes a very long time, it's a cumbersome process, and one really has to be entitled to it to get it. Then I think it is strong that one takes such a direct comparison between the situation they are in, those who are fully employed and have many small roles, versus the others, that it is the assessment of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9326	The technical problem is that you must have a reduced working capacity, so that you cannot participate in the working life, if you are a hundred percent unemployed. That means, in short, that one is too sick to work. Obviously, there is a slightly different situation than for someone who can work. But my point is that it's not that around Norway it's sitting – let's take a single-parent who's a three-child mother or a two-child mother, who has a full job. It's not that it's a simple life. Nor is it the case that all diseases, or any difficulty or anything that makes life difficult – even sometimes feeling very heavy – qualify for a public benefit. For many, life is very hard. That's what's my point; not to put direct equals between being too sick to work and working, but there must be a reasonableness there. If too many in Norway are not also seen, everyday life can be tough — and there must be a fairness between performance and pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9332	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9337	The Council of State said in its statement here that policy is about priority. I agree, but it is also about giving money to the proposals you are making in this Chamber, so that it can become a reality. We don't see that there's always a connection between that and the appropriations that are coming. What made me take the floor was the representative Jon Georg Dale, who said it would not pay to go to social security. It sounds like going to social security is something you can choose. Then I think I should ask a recipient of redundancy money who has had a tough cancer treatment, and who meets the year of the withdrawal, whether continuing to go to social security is something you choose. And you can ask the refugee who came to Norway when he was a good adult and didn't get into work, which is maybe 80 years old, and who loses the little special supplement he had, if it's just choosing to do something else. Much of what we have to deal with here today is good suggestions, but for us in the Labour Party, it is natural to do our priorities when we have the opportunity to do so in the context of a budget – and the budget is dealt with twice a year. Now it's not long until the revised national budget comes, and then it's exciting to see which of these measures are funded when we get the real money on the table. We get that in the revised national budget or in the state budget. When the representative Jon Georg Dale says that action is being taken to get people back to work, there were not many new areas of action to look at in the package negotiated by the Progress Party with the government a few days ago. As far as I saw, there was actually no one. When Nav defines who's in vulnerable groups and goes on leave strike now, it's 140,000. There is only one in ten of these who gets an offer through Nav's arrangements. It shows that we need to spend a lot more money on what's important to get people back into work. We need to spend a lot more money on municipalities and hospitals, because there are important actors in order for those who have challenges and who need treatment or follow-up to get it. There I also believe that the Labour Party has a much better arrangement than the Progress Party and others have presented in recent years. We give more money to municipalities and hospitals. It is also important in terms of our welfare performance. Then we get to give priority to the individual measures when we come to the budget. There's a lot to tackle, and we probably can't clean this up in the first year, but we're at least spending money on the proposals we're promoting and supporting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9350	The Norwegian right-hand side is moderate in an international perspective, but at its core there is no difference. Listen to the representative Nordby Lunde. Translated, she says, now you have to be kind and understand that if the welfare state is to be balanced, we have to take from the poor and give to the rich. Why don't you understand? That's what Nordby Lunde says. Look at the number of examples of cuts in this case. It's a bauta over the policies of the Solberg government. Then I don't mean a bauta in the positive sense of the word, but an estimate of what it's been about. This is typical of the right side, Nordby Lundes and Jon Georg Dale's thinking: the workers must understand their place. The truth is that this brings the germ back to inequality, not only economically, but also culturally – on a completely unnecessary basis in a society as rich as Norwegian. That's what we experience in this hall right now, when the right-hand side argues like they do. It is the Norwegian workers who have carried the Norwegian welfare state. It is those who have created the basis for the creation of value, and it is those who have contributed to stability. It's because we have a blessed people who are willing to work. But this germ – which lies in the argument – that those who don't work do it because they don't want to, they want to go on social welfare, are so dangerous and have to fight back. Dale thinks he has a point when he claims that the cuts that have been made are necessary to get people back to work. As they say, he's so wrong, he's so wrong! A stable society with room for everyone and with liberality in everyday life, which provides the basis for people to enter the labour market, is the good society, and that's what serves the side of society that Nordby Lunde and Jon Georg Dale represent here in the hall, namely the creation of value and participating interests. That's what they don't understand. The council says he has a priority list. Yes, but he forgot to mention all the tax reliefs, which are the government's main priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9365	The Council of State said we have to give priority, and I agree with the Council of Right-wing States. But it's a little strange that this council says we have to give priority when this government has spent 9 billion. kr on tax cuts for the richest in the country. This government has prioritised that the heirs will pay zero taxes, but cleaning personnel will pay much more. This government has not given priority. They've spent our oil money, our pension money. Solfrid Lerbreck and I are the youngest in this room, I think -- it's maybe one from the Right that's younger -- and it's our pension money that this government uses to lubricate the other parties to get this right mass through the Storting. This government spent a lot of oil money before the pandemic hit Norway. I understand that we have to spend a lot of money under the pandemic, but it also happened before the pandemic hit Norway. SV has spent at least oil money in its budget, because we can give priority. We give tax cuts to the richest and help those who need it the most. So I agree with the Council of State that we have to give priority, but it was very strange that the Council of State made a statement about prioritizing when this government does not prioritize. I must also reply to the Christian People's Party on the AAP and three years: I am a stroke patient. I was very sick, but I'm so lucky I can talk again. I have many colleagues who have aphasia. It takes a lot of time to learn all the words in the Norwegian language – propositions, sentences, questions. I was very lucky that I was young, I got help. Those who are a little bit older, it takes a little bit more time. The government has cut this scheme to three years. I have friends who have practised in the language, but who have gone over time and have been moved to disability. They want to work. They want to get better, but they don't get time, because this government has priority cutting the AAP for these people. It is an unfair arrangement that you have used this money for tax cuts for the richest. That is why I am in SV and will not support this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9376	Sorry again to extend the debate, but in a way I have decided to answer, among other things. Mr Kolberg, a little bit today. It's not because I don't have much respect for the representative of Kolberg. I even think he's a good politician and a man I respect a lot, but there's something about the lack of recognition and the ability to see – what's it called in the good book – the beam in his own eye. We remember, for example. when the previous government cut the PCs of dyslexic children in Norway, which the bourgeois majority reintroduced. The working party now chooses to cut the one-time benefit. What's that? Well, it's for those who haven't had the opportunity to earn rights at birth in their working life. There you can select the WorkPart to insert the support of the WorkLine by choosing to cut it dramatically. Then there's something about the production of your own story. In 2017, the Workers' Party's Programme Committee went in to halve the maximum time for young AAP recipients. The party put its foot down, but it was a proposal from the Workers' Party. It’s not long — or it’s been a few years ago — headlines came in all of Norway’s newspapers. The working party in the government assessed cuts in the children's supplement to the disabled. The evening post wrote, among other things,\t\t You can change the ‘Government members from Ap la a proposal on the table on cuts in the children’s supplement, as they now criticise Right/Fri for having done, according to SV.’ So there is something about moral indignation when others have political priorities that you might well disagree with, but that is – I think – reserved for social democracy. And since the Christian People's Party may not be allowed to take the floor, I can also mention the cash support – which, incidentally, now my own party has decided that neither are we for, as it is today. However, removing cash support is also a targeted measure that will increase child poverty in Norway overnight — in statistics. Finally, it is very clear that, among other things. the reintroduction of the inheritance fee is an important issue for SV and certainly something they will face in the government negotiations. So I look forward to discussing it further in the election campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9396	The representative Martin Kolberg just drew, so he gets the word.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9401	It was fine, because I've been thinking for a long time and in many ways, that we're talking too little about each other here in the Storting. There is too little open and a little proper discussion – I mean that. That is why I think it is good to take advantage of the occasion, especially when it is coming to the end for me. Then it must also be allowed – and that I get permission from the president – to relate a little to the previous debate, because I did not get the government council to say that he had this as a suggestion: it was good that Einar Gerhardsen came in and created equality societies and trust, but it may be that if the Labour Party had not obtained a majority, it could still go in that direction. It's a nice debate technique, but it's just saying that yes, the right side in Norway has become social democratic in relation to what it used to be. There is no doubt that it has been forced into that fold and has accepted the community in a completely different way. But if they had got a majority and the Workers' Party hadn't been there, it wouldn't have happened. As Torbjørn Røe Isaksen and I have had these laps many times over several years, I just want to remind the Council of State of what his party did, for example. when it was in the case of the Bank of the House. They called it communism, the one who provided the basis for housing in Norway. Communism said these in the hall. They didn't want the Loan Fund – people had to do their own education. It was also communism. Not to mention high school — they were against — who have been stabilising educational work in modern society. This thing that we're talking about here in this case, merges into that understanding. This is the right-hand side of today. The councils gave some examples that were the beam in my own eye. Yes, there are some examples – yes, listen, that's what I'm saying. I never used to be personal, I try to be careful with it, but I have a multi-disabled grandchild. I can only tell Stortinget that because of the restriction on the car system, she has now got a car that can almost not be used – congratulations on that. It's probably necessary to recover the welfare state, if I'm going to base what's being said here. It's the great injustice, and it's not economic, but it's cultural, and it's necessary to say that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9416	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 19th@item: inlistbox Vooting reference
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9434	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, no lines will be given, and those who have to sign up on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9441	This proposal takes account of the fact that persons receiving disability benefit are drawn differently from those admitted to somatic hospital wards by psychiatric treatment institutions or drug institutions. In the following, I would like to explain to the majority of the committee, which shows that a number of people's benefits are being reduced when the recipient is in an institution with free food and shelter under state responsibility. This applies from sickness and redundancy benefits to former family care and old-age pensions. But staying at municipal institutions, such as nursing homes, does not reduce the level of public welfare. Instead, the person pays a proportion to the municipality that may be as high as 75 pst. of the person’s income or social security, up to the basic amount of the social security. When staying in state institutions, the patient is covered by the cost of food and the like, which he would otherwise have had to pay himself. Instead of paying a proportion of the patient’s self-interest, the pay-out from the employment and welfare seat is reduced. The reason for the reduction is that a beneficiary should not be able to receive uninterrupted long-term benefits at the same time as the State pays for food and lodging. But the rules vary, depending on what kind of performance you have and what kind of institution you live in. In the letters of the Council of State to the Committee on 29 April 2021, the Council of State agrees with the proposers that non-discrimination concerns are in favour of having equal rules irrespective of the nature of the disease in which the person is suffering, but that non-discrimination concerns can be drawn in different directions. This applies, inter alia, to: What kind of disease you have, and therefore what kind of state institution you put on. There are also differences depending on the benefits received. The assessment must therefore take into account the fact that there are many different schemes for the payment of equity and/or the reduction of benefits to different state and municipal institutions. In the letter, the Council of State writes that he sees the need to carry out a broader review, and that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has started to look at possible changes that eliminate the differences between somatic and other diseases. The majority of the Committee considers it appropriate for the Ministry to finalise its assessment and for the Government to return to the Grand Duchy in an appropriate manner and to reject the proposal in this context. However, the majority, the Labour Party, the Right, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party are also behind the committee's proposal for a decision, asking the government to investigate changes in the law on social security and the rules on the reduction of benefits while staying in an institution, including the difference between the members of somatic and psychiatric institutions, and to return to the Grand Duchy with proposals for amendments ensuring equal treatment of patient groups. I just want to end with – now that I have seen how the other debates have gone – that I have now written three different posts that I have not made. So if it's possible to answer the different representative proposals, as Mr Kolberg just did, I'm very ready for much more debate in Stortinget. The evening is still young.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9464	Thank you to the President-in-Office, and thank you to the proposers for raising an important question in principle. It is not easy to see the good explanation that people admitted to psychiatric treatment institutions or drug institutions should be treated differently from those admitted to somatic hospitals. That the former are withdrawn if they receive social security benefits, while the latter do not, seems to be an unfair discrimination. We have discussed the matter before, in the 2013–2014 Storingssesion, among others. at the invitation of Mental Health. The Workers' Party asked at that time, together with the Center Party, that the matter be examined in more detail, and that the Stortinget should be dealt with separately. That time we were voted down by the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. It is therefore gratifying that the Council of State has now turned around in the matter and still wants to ask the question further. The fact that the Labour Party will wait to conclude until the investigation is on the table is due to the fact that the case contains more elements than a discrimination between patients in psychiatric institutions and in somatic hospitals. As the Council of State refers to in the letter of reply to the Committee, there are also differences in the nature of benefits received by individuals, and there are many different schemes for the collection of self-interests or the reduction of benefits in different state and municipal institutions. We think it's okay that all of this is seen together. The Labour Party also promotes another proposal in the case, similar to a proposal we made the previous time it was up. The investigation should also include an assessment of the legal basis for the 2014 Decision that benefits to former family nurses, surviving spouses, child-retirement, new disability benefits and old-age pensions should be treated in the same way as sickness benefits and redundancy benefits and should be eliminated by criminal proceedings. We voted against it in 2014, not because we necessarily felt it was wrong to equate those benefits in criminal proceedings, but because several of the hearing bodies in the case pointed out that these were vested rights, regardless of the actions that led to a criminal reaction. We still believe that this issue should be looked at – especially at these times, with the Nav scandal as a backstop, when the legality of large parts of our legislation is already in the spotlight. It's actually a little strange that the Council of State doesn't get a bit worried at least when heavy legal environments question the legality of earned rights falling away from the law when they execute them. I take up the proposal of the Workers' Party in conjunction with the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9485	The representative Lise Christoffersen has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9490	Many people have read the case about Hege, who had to stop her drug treatment, as she needed. She lost much of her insurance while she was in treatment. Hedge simply could not afford to be embedded. It costs to be human, even when you are admitted: telephone, apartment, agreements, subscriptions, Christmas gifts to the family, debts, etc. The law says that those who are admitted to psychiatric institutions or drug institutions, such as Hege, will reduce their social security. It doesn't happen in somatic departments. There are no good arguments for discriminating people who are struggling with alcohol or poor mental health. They are human and have the same need for income as everyone else, as cancer or stroke patients. The goal is for patients to have a new chance of the disease, and it will be very difficult if they start with debt and no resources. SV wants equality for the law, so that patients in both somatic and psychiatric wards don't get social security cut. We're talking about the state taking money from sick, poor people. Patients respond to this, and the professionals respond to this. The size should listen to them. We can have a majority. The Progress Party has joined in ensuring non-discrimination, but it looks as if the Workers' Party supports the Right and the Government and is voting against our proposal not to take money from sick, poor patients. I'm asking the Workers' Party to think again that patients who are struggling with intoxication and mental ill health should not lose much of their social security when they need help and receive treatment. It would be a very good summer gift for addicts and for those who struggle with the psyche, so no one has to do what Hege had to do. I'm addressing proposal No. 2, which we promote together with the Progress Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9503	The representative Nicholas Wilkinson has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9508	It is very little time-saving that I come after the representative Wilkinson, in view of the speaker's chair and height difference! But that's the way it is. It's something we'short-grown' have had to live with. There is some difference in the Committee's view on the follow-up to this, but I would like to say that there is a consensus in the Committee, although there are slightly different proposals, that there is an unfair nature of discrimination, and in particular the main discrimination here, which goes largely between somatic and non-somatic/psychiatric. As I understand it, this is probably the historical result of the fact that this magnification simply meets the good intentions of a former magnification in the door. For it was the Stortinget who actually said that one should have an exception because it was considered unreasonable in somatic, but then maybe for a time 20 years ago when there was just not so much attention and so much commitment around the psychiatry, and also not bet on it over several years, as we have today. The reason why the government parties and also I have said in my answer that we have to go through the legislation and look at it is that, first of all, it is partly complicated – there are different benefits that are reduced in different ways, and there is a difference between somatic and non-somatic – but there is also a difference between the benefits that are also reduced in somatic terms. It is also the case that there is a difference between how much performance is reduced. At the same time, it is also important to have at least a little look at the fact that this way of doing things is not completely unknown in the public sector. Most people have probably had older relatives who are in hospital, for example, and then, as my grandmother said, when you are hospitalized, the municipality comes and takes your pension. We know that. That's why we have to see it a little bit in context and not just say that we're going to jump on the simplest decision, and then we don't have an overview of the consequences. What we're going to do is simply follow up on this. I think it's important, because I fully agree with the basic premise of the proposers: that having such a different treatment for in practice psychiatric patients, rubricants and others, and somatic patients, it doesn't stand up. I agree that this is unfair. But then one must also consider how to do this and whether it has other consequences, possibly for what benefits, and also whether there are some reductions that can be reasonable. In addition, there is also an important point on how to practice the individual exemptions that are here, which were also promoted in the case to which the representative Wilkinson referred, related, for example, to. housing costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9521	The right and the working party said they'd wait. I think maybe they should remember the story. SV has worked for this for several years, and in February 2019 Anniken Hauglie, who was then the Council of State, replied: ‘In view of this, I see that there is a need to reconsider the appropriateness of today’s rules and will return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner.’ It was in February 2019. It's been over two years. Nothing has happened. I am very disappointed that this room – the deposit representatives – says that they will look into the matter. We have looked at the matter several times. The government has said that they will look at the matter – several times. But it gets exposed all the time. We're talking about mentally ill and addicts. I have not received an answer from the Workers' Party, so I ask again, because the Workers' Party broke the hope of having a good drug reform – that we should not punish addicts. Now the Workers' Party has an opportunity to finally help those who need it the most, so that, if they are treated, they do not lose their social security. It is very important for them that they can have a new start after treatment. I hope that the Labour Party can answer why they vote against it, because we can have a majority – we can have a majority. The Center Party and the Advance Party: Thank you so much for joining this – and SV. So if the Workers' Party is involved, we have a majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9537	President, this is where it was loud! I just want to answer the question from SV very briefly about why the Workers' Party is not on proposal No. 2. from the Party of Advancement, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. I can't see the big difference between proposal No. 2 and the setting in the case. There is no legislative proposal from SV in the case that we are adopting here and now. So anyway, the Council of State has to do that job. We believe that then, when the Council of State is going to do that job, we also have to include the other injustices. The one that we questioned, we don't get it, what's all about benefits falling completely under punishment, and whether it's actually legal, but we get the other injustices. Then we are not going to start the Russ Reform again, but the Labour Party had many good suggestions in connection with the Russ Reform. We had a slightly different view on one point, but there were many good suggestions that we promoted here in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9545	The representative, Nicholas Wilkinson, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9550	SV shall also support the secondary decision in the setting. It's not a contradiction to vote for both of them. So I hope that the Labour Party can also vote in favour of the proposal, because then we will have a majority. SV vote in favour of the vote, but we can have a majority if the Labour Party also votes in favour of the proposal of the Progress Party, the Centre Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9555	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 20.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9573	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, no lines will be given, and those who have to sign up on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9580	Thank you for your cooperation. This is the last time I'm a case spokesperson in Stortinget, so I thank you for the cooperation here as well. This issue is raised by Red and is about a stronger social security network with lasting improvements in the day-to-day arrangements. The Central Party and the Socialist Left Party form a minority and propose that the Storting ask the Government to halve the minimum income to qualify for the daily allowance, with effect from 1 October 2021. A plurality, which is the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, suggests that this is not agreed. This game is intended to do a lot of good for itself. Then I go to the Christian People's Party's view of the matter. Norway is in the worst economic crisis since the Second World War. Because of the high unemployment rate, the government has taken many steps to remedy the effects of the shutdown. The respect for temporary special rules has been great, with the right to daily allowances being one of many important measures. The situation has required temporary rules and increased support for both employees and employers. When we expect to return quickly to a more normal working life, the trueness of these special rules will diminish. Measures that have been necessary to mitigate the loss of well-being and to counteract lasting damage will be unnecessary when the country is no longer in a state of crisis. The expert group that has assessed the financial measures in the context of the pandemic has underlined that the temporary measures, which have been considered necessary under the pandemic, should be what they are supposed to be, simply temporary. In a more normal labour market, it is important that the day-to-day arrangements do not counteract incentives and that resources are deployed for more people to work. Welfare schemes shall contribute to the payroll of participation in the labour market, with firm, comprehensive settings as a general rule. Compensation schemes are designed to remedy the difficult situation many have experienced as a result of the shutdown. Therefore, there is also reason to maintain the principle that existed before the pandemic, namely that persons who have had labour income as their main source of income are covered by the day-to-day arrangements. Those who have had other main income sources do not naturally fall under this legislation, but are covered by other performances. The Christian People's Party will therefore not support any of these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9595	When Norway shut down when the Koron came, and the first crisis package was presented to the Stortinget, there were not ordinary people who were at the top of the government's priority list. The size corrected in much of what should have been a proposal from the government, and the matter we are dealing with today is about making permanent changes in the day-to-day arrangements after the crisis has ended. The working party is always committed to having a good safety net that ensures that people have a basic security. In the proposal we are now considering, there is only one measure to be discussed and discussed today, because the others have been discussed in the past. I then choose to comment on it. Reduction in the minimum income requirement to qualify for daily allowances was a necessary and important crisis response. The decision was taken in connection with the treatment of Prop by Stortinget. 53 LS for 2019-2020 and Innst. 197 S for 2019-2020 and was the result of the negotiations on the first crisis package in Stortinget. Having an extended daily allowance scheme has been important to secure the income of more than one person under the pandemic. Our position is that those arrangements should last for as long as the crisis lasts, but then it is necessary that we get to a more normal situation. We're dedicated to finding good, long-term solutions for those who go on a day-to-day basis. Therefore, our first priority is to secure holiday money for those who are beneficiaries. The majority of the population have introduced a temporary, half-scheme, but we are proposing in the revised national budget to reintroduce the old holiday pay scheme, which will provide the many millions of dollars available more than the scheme currently in force. It shall apply to this year, to the next year and to the years coming. In the revised national budget, we will focus on getting people back to work, through, among other things. allocations to many more areas of action and better follow-up of those who are available. That must be the important thing. But when the pandemic is over, it will be necessary to learn from the changes that have been made temporarily. We will always be looking for improvements that strengthen the opportunities of ordinary people for work and security.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9612	The pandemic put us in a situation where we had to put in extraordinary measures because the problems became so massive. Temporary changes were therefore made for both workers and employers, for which the centre party was one of the drivers. There was a balance between improvements both for employees and for employers. Now, hopefully, when we get into a more normal situation, the question is what are the permanent changes, and what the Center Party is focusing on is the income criteria to get into the day-to-day arrangements for those who are employed in vicariates or part-time positions. That is why the Centre Party and the SV have submitted proposals to improve the scheme for that, so that we get a permanent change that halves the minimum income to qualify for the daily allowance, with effect from 1 October 2021, and I address the proposal. I had hoped that the Workers' Party would be involved. It's usually important to ensure full-time jobs, and we're working for a full-time culture. At the same time, it is a fact that many are in vicariates and part-time positions, and in this context comes under the minimum 1.5G. Then, for reasons of justice, the Central Party believes that that limit should have been lowered earlier. Therefore, at least after the experience we now have, a future one should have a limit which means halving the minimum income to qualify for a daily allowance.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9621	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9626	When there is no corona, the level of daily money is 62.4 pst. and an input requirement of 1,5G. Whatever your income, you might say this is a significant decrease from what you're used to. For SV, it makes sense to think that a place goes to the pain limit, and that it would be more natural to take this into account in measuring the daily allowance. Therefore, we are pleased that we have had an impact on exactly this in one of the crisis packages that was adopted in the start-up phase of the pandemic. However, one can question why the majority in Stortinget accepted, and to some extent acknowledged, that the need for a better day-to-day arrangements was necessary then, but does not consider it necessary to introduce any of these schemes as permanent. I mean at least that 62.4 pst. Of 400,000 is small, anyway, and makes a very big intervention in the economy into a normal family. It will be fixed costs that a normal family will not be paid. For many, this leads to a consumption debt that you will have to deal with for a long time afterwards. And why is it exactly this rate, 62.4 pst.? Why is it not 55 pst, or 65 pst, or 75 pst.? Is this random? Who has seen this rate? Besides this, there's a very big consensus in the hall about the importance of a good permitting system that works. And in this case, we're making one suggestion to lower the threshold in order to get into the system, i.e. to halve that threshold. This is very important and will benefit people with little income. But I also mention that we are thinking about the other relationships with the daily allowance, for example. the rate of 62.4 p.m., and see the question mark on it – without making any suggestions about it here and now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9635	The crisis is by no means over. Norway continues to have historically high unemployment rates. For those who have no work, there is little comfort that the beer taps have opened, and that those who can afford can travel abroad again. The Korona crisis is hitting workers hard. When the government presented the first crisis package and tried to send parts of the bill to the workers, the Stortinget replied with a number of important measures, including: to increase the daily allowance to 80 pst. for income up to NOK 300000. A unanimous decision last year agreed that the daily allowance was too low and had to rise, and we saw this particularly when more and more people became dependent on the scheme. The head of the Joint Union, the department of hotels and restaurants in the West, Djevat Hisenaj, said to the FreeFacilities that hotel and restaurant employees are completely dependent on today's corona arrangement for daily allowances. Now they're free to live below the poverty line. In a press release in March, Nav informed that there has been an increase in the risk that more people will be permanently away from work during the coronary apathy. For the individual's economy, there's no difference between losing a job because the state shuts down society or losing a job for other reasons. Therefore, the rates must be increased permanently — and at least extended as long as unemployment is high, or as long as the country is unable to provide the unemployed with a job. It became clear that the government parties and the Progress Party do not place a single penny more on the unemployed in the agreement in the revised budget. The Prime Minister has said that the crisis is a good thing. The Labour Party has rightly criticised the government not to do enough for the unemployed in the revised, but we note that neither the government parties, the Progress Party nor the Workers' Party support our proposals for lasting improvements to the day-to-day pay system. As of 1 October, the daily allowance rate will fall sharply. This week we have a last chance to ensure the unemployed a decent income until Christmas – at least. We had expected support from the Workers' Party to the unemployed today. If people are to see differences on the left and right sides of the election, it is important that the Workers' Party stands on the side of the unemployed in this case. It does not deal with temporary schemes in the face of unemployment. This crisis has already greatly increased the differences. Several of the parties in this room are going to choose to fight economic inequality. It's fine, but then the same parties should support the proposals for improvements to the social security network for those who are so unfortunate to lose their jobs. I'll bring it up to Red's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9650	The representative Seher Aydar then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9655	The starting point for this proposal is that there is no difference between losing a job because the state is shutting down society in a pandemic, or losing it for other reasons. I totally agree that in isolation, you lose your job anyway, so it's not like that any big difference, but there's actually a big difference in a pandemic society where the state has shut down the whole economy because of infectious diseases, and a normal situation in the labour market. There will be a big difference between the possibilities of getting back to work, there will also often be a difference between the speed of that framework, and there will be a difference between the opportunities for businesses to get back to work. The whole premise for the crisis packages is that it's a crisis. The exceptional situation of Korona led to exceptional closures, and it also called for exceptional arrangements, including: in the case of security of income. In particular, there is a good argument relating to the requirement to enter into the day-to-day arrangements. When you suddenly close down all part-time jobs for everyone in Norway — at least for many in Norway — it hits. Then there are good arguments to put it down to 0.75. But if you were to make it a normal situation, when 0.75G in the last 12 months gives a daily allowance of less than $50,000 with a compensation rate of 62.4 pst, in what situation is it supposed that the unemployment allowance associated with such a small job should motivate you to come back and apply for new jobs? Besides, it breaks with the whole foundation of our thought of day money. A day’s pay is not a social benefit, it’s a compensation for losing your job. Untying this system of daily allowances from the fact that you have actually had income, and then an income you have lived on, undermines the entire scheme. There is also another danger of making emergency arrangements permanent. It may give some signals that may weaken the upturn in temporary measures at the next crossroads, but not least it will give us less space for action and a smaller toolbox if we also have crises in the future. I believe that these are good arguments that after the infection is stopped, we will return to normal. I was also going to say something about the cost of daily allowances if Red gets their business policy implemented, with the accompanying unemployment it will cause, but I don't have time for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9666	The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9672	I don't know if the representative Aydar heard my post. As far as I understand, we have one thing to deal with here today. Then Red has promoted some new proposals, which I don't think will be discussed, because they are promoted before. The proposal we have before us today is not going to be supported now, because we believe that we should make an overall priority when the crisis is over. We have also said that the arrangements that apply should last as long as the crisis lasts, and it is up to us to find out when the crisis is over. We are very ready to extend the arrangements if the crisis continues. We have proposed 346 million. SEK for holiday pay. That makes those who are unemployed get 346 million. kr more. In addition, we are proposing a significant investment in action areas in the alternative budget we are presenting tomorrow. I think that's good, and I hope Red also remembers it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9681	Holiday money's fine. Red supports it, and we've been for the whole time. But it does not solve the problems for those who lose support after 1 October. That is what we are discussing here, and that is what the Labour Party does not have a good answer to. Nav has also confirmed that reducing the income limit of day-care schemes meant that fewer people had to apply for social assistance. Hotel and restaurant staff say that the usual rates make people live around the poverty line. There should be something the Workers' Party was concerned about and wanted to prioritise, because here it is about people who lose their livelihood, people who lose everything, and who need the arrangements that were bad before the crisis struck, but which got better, can be lasting for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9688	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 21st Last@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9705	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9712	This proposal for a representative is incorporated into the range of a wide range of proposals from the red-green and what is worse, during this period, where the review tone is that everything that is not in the public domain is to be suspiciously and downplayed, along with a blind belief that the only rewarding thing to do when you provide welfare services is to operate in such a way that you are not left with a surplus. So now there are private action organisers who are on their way. Labour market measures represent a broad range of labour-oriented measures and services to strengthen the ability of action participants to obtain work. This includes both direct grants to individual locations of ordinary employers, direct standardised grants to action sites of pre-authorised suppliers in the protected sector, post-budg actions and follow-up services operated by Nav under its own direction. Private course organisers are at present a central part of the toolbox on labour-oriented services and services and are important to provide relevant skills for young unemployed, immigrants and long-term unemployed in a labour market that requires rapid adaptation to changing needs. In the period 2013 to 2018, it was paid between 4 and 5 billion. kr to suppliers of labour market measures. Unlike the left-hand side, we believe that the objective of labour market measures must be to provide Nav users with the best possible services by releasing all the competent environments into the competition to deliver them. Today, we have a good mix of old municipal owned management companies and new private suppliers with new skills, knowledge and wide-ranging contact with the workplace and employers. To replace this with the reintroduction of a new monopoly situation is difficult to see other than disadvantages. Access to private services provides a greater diversity of measures and is particularly important when services need to be scaled up or down rapidly to adapt to changing labour market needs. If tenders were to be waived in labour market measures and these had to be added to Nav as a whole, this would mean that Nav had to have doubled its capacity. Similarly, the pre-authorised organisers had to double their capacity. It is essential to have the opportunity to purchase measures that vary in scale and size, in order to adapt rapidly the capacity to the needs of the labour market and the needs of the unemployed or persons with disabilities. It is difficult, I would say almost impossible, to imagine that the termination of tenders, competition and the purchase of labour market measures is the recipe for something other than a more expensive, poorer, more bureaucratic and less adaptable service. We therefore recommend that the proposals be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9727	Thank you to the rapporteurs and to the rapporteur. SV raises fundamental questions in this matter which are also important for the Workers' Party. During the Solberg administration, privatisation of public services has accelerated in a number of areas, often at the expense of wage and pension conditions for workers, but also to the detriment of users of services, while public welfare funds are increasingly going to private profit rather than go to improving services and social welfare schemes for ordinary people. This specific case concerns profits and offers in Nav's action apparatus. The action apparatus is there to assist many of those who are furthest away from the labour market. Then it is particularly important that the funds benefit users in a good way. The working party goes to the autumn elections with three clear promises for the voters. One of them is to make our common welfare state stronger. It should include everyone, regardless of who you are, and where you live. If we are to cope, we must strengthen the community's welfare, health and care services and say no to privatisation and increased class divisions. Basic welfare services are not market and competitive output. Labour market measures also apply to those furthest away from the labour market. Experience gained from the expansions of tender practices in the protected sector of the government has already shown clearly that it has not led to more diversity of offers but to a concentration of fewer and larger private and commercial suppliers, and that those in greatest need of follow-up are further in line. A previous proposal from us to get the experience of the tendering process for treatment in Stortinget is downgraded. The government parties do not want such a case, and it is not difficult to understand why. In addition, the Riksrevision has also had critical comments on the adequacy of control of the means of action. The Workers' Party follows the main lines of the SV's representative proposal, but we take some reservations. We think it is a little too drastic to execute all tenders throughout the action sector. Also during the red-green government period, there were some measures on tenders, but not in the sheltered sector. We are also concerned that some of the proposals may have an unfortunate impact on the operational capacity of the pre-authorised companies, which are often in municipal ownership. We also believe that this speaks for a review of the tendering procedures as a whole. The Labour Party has therefore chosen not to vote for the proposals here and now, but has expressed its support for them with the reservations I have now expressed. The exception is what originally was proposal No. 5 in the proposal for a representative, to stop all plans to put out work-preparation training. It is in the setting in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9742	Labour market measures are assistance to people. Those who run it need long-term experience, and the people who need help have an ever-changing need. It is important that it is not a question of making money in such activities, and therefore the central party's basic position is clear and clear: public and non-profit-making establishments should operate it, not commercial – and in more and more cases listed – which are based on tenders. The bidding system leads to less diversity, and it must be a cross of thought for the Christian People's Party that is on this path, because very many of the ideal businesses operating in this area are friends of the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. They get a very difficult situation if one goes further along that road, and already there are significant disadvantages. We are pleased that the Workers' Party is involved in stopping all plans for the outsourcing of work-preparation training, the AFT measures. But it is interesting to learn that the Workers' Party does not agree to tell us why the tender has become such a hazard in Norway. The EEA Agreement has a maritime background, which is a driver and a driver behind the calls for tender. This leads to considerable difficulties, not least for the many reintroduction holdings within the ASVL family, the National Association of Labor Cooperatives. The centre party here is clear that there are contracts, not tenders, we have to go after. We also have some suggestions along with the Socialist Left Party that I'm dealing with. One is that the economic values generated by the operation of labour market measures remain in the enterprises of measures to continue the activities of a group. Then there's a proposal for Nav's role in running the employment service, and it's also special that the Workers' Party can't be involved in it. One has, in some contexts, become the spokesperson for the employment services in Nav, and then it is proposed here from our side, precisely to strengthen Nav's first line in the employment services sector. It is absolutely essential that they be able to operate employment services, and in the opinion of the Centre Party, it should also be done together with private, for example temporary employment agencies. For Nav to have such a role, it is in order to strengthen and maintain occupational competence in the establishment, because a local skilled person has good experience in disseminating job seekers to enterprises in need of employment assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9751	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9756	About 9 billion. kr goes through the Nav action system every year. There is a reason to ask questions about how good control is actually with these money. I have no doubt that much of this money is being used correctly, but I have no doubt that much of this money goes to very high rents, stock exchanges and some unnecessary measures that cost very little to the manufacturer, but that Nav still pays high prices. Here, for many years at random intervals, rather premature examples have emerged. A Nav candidate can be sent on four consecutive CV courses, to one supplier, without necessarily having the need for four consecutive CV courses, or that it will lead the candidate closer to work. We've heard about a course that candidates have to participate in, and that Nav pays for, which is about coloring their thoughts. Private action providers have listened to us as a business model to have a follow-up meeting in the car in a parking space with the Nav candidate data that they are going to follow up, so that they will be able to squeeze in as much as possible in one day. In such a case, it is generally not a quality trajectory, and it is not difficult to see its owners and managers behind these private action providers looking for grossly good money on this. One of the reasons why this has not been highlighted to the same extent as welfare professionals in the kindergarten sector is that policymakers in this field are to a lesser extent national and to a greater extent regional. They may be targeting one or two systems in Nav, and that way it becomes more fragmented. To the representative Toning Riise: We don't want Nav to drive everything, but we want to take the suction pipe down into the state register as well as the welfare professionals. It has been open quite a long time. The activities we want to strengthen in this system, for example, are: The Salvation Army, the Church's Bymition and the Blue Cross, who do a very good job in the field, but they're not public. I finally want to address the suggestions that SV stands by itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9769	The representative Solfrid Lerbrück then addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9774	I woke up at Sunnmaøre with a grandmother who was in Indroom, and every time there was something wrong in the world, she said that it was the ugly man's responsibility. It is almost the same relationship as the representative Per Olaf Lundtigen seems to have with the EEA Agreement. It illustrates to the extent that many of the problems we have in several of these discussions. An addition of other actors, with whom a voluntary agreement has been concluded with which Norwegian interests are concerned, the disadvantages, as one understands. It is time for the Centre Party to clear its EEA argument. This whole debate has also been shown in many ways. What's amazing about the offer is that when the quality of the service offered is too poor, it replaces the service providers. There is no attempt to argue from the left side of any of these debates, which is what is the option. What is the real option to replace suppliers who provide poor services to the state or municipalities? There are heavy public sector conversion processes, large bureaucratic conversion processes, which often take a long time, and where one will have suppliers who continue to provide services without the qualitative basis needed. This is the core of why supply is chosen – not as an ideological over-interpretation that everything must be private. On the contrary – state, municipal, commercial and non-profit actors compete on equal terms based on some clear criteria. Normally, there are as simple things as measurable quality of supply, how much of the supply can give to the individual, and at what price you can do it. Abode is not something scary and difficult. It's the easiest way to make sure that we have a public sector that offers good services to the inhabitants as cost-effective as possible, so that we can provide more services in other priority areas. Therefore, it is a good idea to vote down all these proposals today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9787	I was a little anxious when the representative Lundtegen was in the pulpit. He was very caring for the Christian People's Party and how we have reacted. I can tell you that at the end of the 1990s, I spent six years in Health West. The working party was in government with SV and the Center Party. What happened was that we were told, according to the current policy, that the agreements with non-profit organisations should be reached before the care of the drug. As a result, on Askøy they cancelled the agreement with the Blue Cross, and in Stavanger they cancelled the agreement with the Salvation Army. And what happened when they were to take over themselves? In Ashøy at least they had no room, so they had to buy the building mass for the Blue Cross and start out there with their own treatment. It's not black and white cork when it's for one government or the other government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9794	Today, we have four models of action: direct grants are provided at some places in the ordinary employer’s office, direct grants are provided at the place of action of pre-authorised suppliers, actions are provided after a tendering procedure, and follow-up services are provided at the place of employment and welfare. I can only cancel one thing at the end, and that is that tenders in this sector are not about the EEA. In that case, it's funny that one of the measures, as far as I remember, was the labour-oriented action, was certainly transferred from Nav and put on offer by it, I guess, solid Social-Democrat Dag Terje Andersen in 2008, by a government where, as far as I remember, the Senter party was also put. I don't think it was because the EEA forced them. I think it was because you thought it was a better offer. It's just the combination of these different ways of doing things, which gives us a good deal. I have to admit that I wonder a little bit about it – other than to highlight what is called welfare professionals, which I think is a word that is, yes, especially when you know what connotations it has at dark times in Norwegian history – as practical as that. When SV, who was also also in government in 2008, put out tenders: how should they be practical, reach 2,5 billion. kr used for measures, to be acquired by tender today, is suddenly to be operated under Nav's own control, possibly with only pre-approved action suppliers? I wonder why there is no interest in what has been an evaluation of the measures that Anniken Hauglie decided to tender. Proba social analysis is referred to in the representative’s proposal, but only in interviews with Nav staff – not what was Probas’ very thorough quantitative analysis, i.e. based on figures, where they concluded that tender-based follow-up actions have both better results in terms of job probability for all groups than previous follow-up actions, while cost-effective. The measures that were better were measures under the authority of the agency, i.e. Nav's actions, but in return they are much more expensive. We should have many of them too, but they were also much more expensive. Then someone has said that it is because these action providers, as if it were something bad, took only the easiest users. Yes, but the statisticians have a way of checking it. They're checking for background variables. And even checked for background variables were the results better. Then my question is, who is ideological here in the negative sense? Is it the left side, that wants to cut things that work, or are we, that have a practical approach and let good forces escape?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9808	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9813	We have had a couple of rounds in the hall here not very long ago about the state council's flirting with the idea of postponing the AFT. I'm not going to pull it again, but I'm going to bring up something that I think is equally alarming, namely that Nav is currently actively forcing the merger of, among other things. The ASVL companies, with centralisation and poorer provision of work-preparation training as a result. It happens especially in the smallest municipalities. What I'm asking is whether there's something Nav has invented by itself, or whether there's something Nav has been told by the state council to get started.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9818	Nav has not been told by us to actively force merger. I must admit that I do not know the problem either. What Nav has been informed about is the representative of Lundtigen, among others. Involved in his statement, namely that there have been some questions from, among others. The national audit related to group contributions and how to deal with them. It is possible it may have something to do with the matter. So no, there's no message of it familiar to me, at least, and I should have known about it. Rather, it is – if you read the big message that the government sent out last Friday – that it is a very clear goal for us to have more smaller tenders, just to get more new players to come and more new ideas to go. In my opinion, one of the problems with Nav's tendering practices is that too many of the tenders are too large. Even those who are small and have 20–30 places are often too large to allow small, new, innovative players to try.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9827	I thank you for your answer. It's so interesting that the Council of State is not familiar with the practice that Nav has initiated towards the ASVL companies, so I hope that the Council of State will follow up. Otherwise, I have scrambled the message, read it like this at full speed, without finding the completely concrete, clear, clear answers on how to proceed to improve the offer for those who are far away from the labour market. Just to clarify: what we've got feedback from ASVL about is that Nav says that the trade unions are too small in the small companies. ASVL has therefore proposed to the Directorate of Labour and Welfare a model that ensures professional cooperation across companies, but Nav has therefore refused. This means that some of the municipal growth companies that have good competence in some of the most remote areas are about to disappear. So I'd like to hear the council say he'll follow up on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9834	I always look at things that come up in Stortinget if I haven't seen them in advance. What Nav of course has a clear order about, is that you should not only be concerned about price; you should also be concerned about quality. This means that the quality and results you follow over time are extremely important, and it is also one of the important elements of the Storing Communication that we need to have even better systems to measure quality over time. Speaking of the discussion in the past, another of the important steps in the message is to bring in several small, innovative actors. It could be private, it could be ideal, many would be social entrepreneurs. There's a dilemma in this welfare-prosperity rhetoric of parts of the left-hand side. For many of the social entrepreneurs, even though they have a social objective, are also businesses. Some of them also take out modest profits. Banning them from contributing I think hardly leads to better services.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9843	I thank you once again for your answer. On the one hand, it is positive that several smaller companies can make offers. At the same time, there is also a danger that there will be a good deal of pop-up offers that will in some way never get up quality, that will fall off again, and that will come and go into the government budget afterwards, and some of them will probably do it too. How has the Council of State intended to manage the qualitative content of the measures in the future — based on such a system and less based on the companies that have years of competence, know what they are doing, and operate with tidy conditions and tariff agreements and the whole package?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9850	This we might be able to talk about later, but it's clear that we also need those who can deliver large quantities. It's important. It's not that we can just have innovative purchases. It is also very central that having innovative purchases where new players can be tested requires delivery. The main idea of the Storing Message that Stortinget will deal with later is that today’s system prevents the possibility of getting a test at all. So it's a little bit too many, for example. social entrepreneurs, who are referred to as applying for project support or asking politicians for a grant here and there. We carry a glass of water to them once in a while instead of leading them towards the river. That's the main point, but it assumes that you can actually deliver. That also means that in some of these tenders we have to try to break up the rigid criteria for what to buy. It is actually the same way of thinking as for innovative tenders and purchases in other parts of the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9859	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9866	As the representative Solfrid Lerbreck said, there's a lot of money we're talking about here – about 9 billion. kr in the case of Nav labour market measures. It is quite correct, as the Council of State says, that tenders began – not least speeding up – under the red-green government. This has led to major changes, and this has led to a discussion about it, and it has led to a much greater awareness of what is really going on in the Center Party. What has been said by the government in the current period is that this tendering policy should lead to greater diversity. There is evidence that there has been no greater diversity. What has been documented is that not least non-profit institutions have come out even more difficult. It's right, as the representative of the Christian People's Party says, that this started early, and the Center Party has been co-responsible for it. This has led to an ever more intense discussion in our rows around it, and thus to a more thorough approach to it, not least in the light of what the welfare state has been working on. They have done an exemplary good job and are going into matters thoroughly. The centre party does not reject tenders in principle, and we therefore do not support proposal No. So 4 from SV, but we want more agreement. When someone is now trying to say that the EEA Agreement is not a driving force — driving — in the tendering system, that is not the right thing, because that is the whole point, which we are experiencing in a number of areas. Those who have been thoroughly involved in the discussion on work-preparation training know here what has been the government’s plan for it, on the basis of the EEA tendering requirements. There is no good development and strength when more and more of these measures are being carried out by commercial listed companies. Commercial listed companies have one purpose and that is to have a high return on capital invested. This has led to radicalisation – one might say – in the ranks of the Centre Party. This is something we do not want, and therefore we have become clearer and clearer that this is a public and ideal responsibility with a certain supplement. But the commercial listed companies need to have a clear view of, because otherwise there will be less diversity and even fewer opportunities for the ideals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9879	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 22nd@item: inlistbox Vooting reference
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9897	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, there will be up to three lines with replies from members of the Government. Those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9904	I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation on an important matter that concerns us, even when it is beginning to be late in the evening. Many industries have faced challenges under the pandemic, and agriculture in particular is now experiencing major challenges in obtaining labour from abroad. Infectiveness and strict border control have priority, and there is broad political agreement on the need to reduce imports. Several measures are in place to address the shortage of labour in industry: A separate application-based regime has been established for exemptions from the restrictions on the entry of non-residents which are strictly necessary to maintain the proper functioning of establishments producing vegetables, fruit and berries. Temporary changes to the foreign regulation have also been made so that seasonal workers from non-EEA countries already in Norway may receive a residence permit for seasonal work beyond six months. In addition, temporary changes have been introduced to the legislation on day-to-day pay, which means that beneficiaries who take a job in agriculture are less curtailed in the day-to-day payments. Furthermore, the crop damage compensation scheme has been extended to include crops that cannot be harvested because of labour shortages. Furthermore, a new labour market measure of 2021 with grants for summer jobs for employers taking on young jobseekers in need of labour-oriented assistance has been introduced in a summer job. This scheme may also be used in the agricultural industry. The government has recently set aside $40 million. kr in the revised national budget for farmers in the green economy who employ Norwegian labour. This shall compensate for the costs of training through the season. The majority of the Committee emphasises that farmers must increasingly seek to replace the labour force with many of those now out of work. Closer dialogue between Nav and the industry has been arranged to find Norwegian labour force, and each county has its own contact person in Nav. Employers who contact the department will be helped to find the relevant candidates. In this work, Nav may assist with the organisation, follow-up and qualification of job seekers. However, the Nav notification is that there are still few farmers who have reported their labour needs. It's important that they do it. The mentoring system and other measures, such as: wages and salaries subsidies can be used when the unemployed are put into work through the Nav. It's important that Nav follow this up. A majority of the Committee therefore calls on the Government to ensure that establishments employing jobseekers associated with Nav who are employed in agricultural holdings are guaranteed equal access to other establishments for the use of mentoring systems, wage subsidies and other measures that contribute to the rapid return of people to work. We have historically high unemployment, and it is essential that this unemployment does not break down. Therefore, it is now necessary to recruit as much Norwegian labour as possible, at the same time as a continuous job to solve other challenges for industry. It is all in order for Nav to be able to assist in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9936	There is no doubt that agriculture is dependent on foreign labour and that the situation of the corona has made it apparent that there is a vulnerable situation. Therefore, it is important for Nav to have a more active role as a public employment service. Many young people need to be connected to the industry if the recruitment process is to succeed. If the recruitment process is to be speedy enough to ensure food production and many young people have summer jobs, Nav must be able to play an active role in recruiting at secondary schools and places of study. Among other things, the Farmers have taken positive initiatives aimed at students in the agricultural schools. But a much larger number of hands are needed in work this season than there are students in the natural sciences schools. Usually it is up to 18,000 foreign seasonal workers working in agriculture during a season. The total number of students in the agricultural schools in the whole country is well above 4,000, some of whom have summer jobs or work at home. We in the Labour Party are therefore concerned when we see examples of very few jobs in agriculture and the lack of domestic labour. Therefore, we believe that the government needs to engage in an active dialogue with the parties and Nav in order to address the acute manning challenges in seasonally fluctuated industries. We therefore support the idea that we should ensure that agricultural establishments can make use of the same schemes as other enterprises that employ jobseekers associated with Nav.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9945	First, I'd like to address the proposal of the Center Party. Agriculture has become dependent on guest workers over the year. This is what we are talking about here – guest workers who do not live in Norway. It is organized by the Stortinget, and the background is that the majority of the Stortinge people have always wanted to get cheaper food, and it gets one and more guest workers who are in Norway. This has become very vulnerable, and we have found it in today's situation. The centre party has then said that we need to solve the labour demand through diversity, by bringing in a number of guest workers, but that one also has more people living in Norway. That is why the proposal on the mentoring system came up. This means that those who are employed receive a better salary and that those who are trained are paid for it. According to a public tariff agreement – and I stress: a public tariff agreement – for agriculture and horticulture, the minimum hourly salary for adults unskilled over 18 years is 129 kroner and 40 cents, and the daily allowance for a person with a daily allowance of 300000 kroner is approximately 125 kroner. There we have the realities. In the General Agreement on Tariffs for Construction, the rate for unskilled workers without professional experience is DKK 198 and 30 øre. Here we see the reality. Thus, a number of those who have now entered the farm as guest workers go quite directly from agriculture to construction and to construction because the profitability is different there. It is regrettable to learn that there is no willingness to do anything about this, sail in this situation. The Central Party has received the strongest support for the proposal from the Jørn Eggum of the Joint Confederation. But even though the Jørn Eggum of the Joint Confederation is the strongest supporter of it, there is clearly no impression in this case of the Workers' Party, and they then vote against the proposal. It is not good for the red-green alliance in the future if it is still to be such that the payment for food production – what is called critically important labour in many contexts – is not a willingness to do anything about, other than to continue on the same track. One cannot be surprised that one does not get a job among those who live in Norway, when the payment is as it is, because this is quite hard work, it is demanding work. But there's no gene error on those who live in Norway that makes one not working here, that's profitability. Here we are talking about improving the profitability of employees, and it is also seaworthy to improve the profitability of farmers in order to ensure food production. But I experience that there's no willingness to do anything about it. The discussion is continuing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9960	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9965	Let me first say that it is a matter of course that the schemes that Nav has, including the mentoring system, also apply to agricultural activities. I also fully agree with the rapporteurs — and it is quite obvious to everyone who can see the situation — that there is a very difficult situation for many who are active both in the green industry and in other parts of agriculture, linked to the restrictions on entry. Then the allowances and arrangements that have been granted to obtain some foreign labour force have been mentioned. An important scheme is also the changes in the day-to-day pay legislation, because although Nav has had the opportunity to help people again, it would have been very difficult to get people who went on a day-to-day basis if you didn't also make an adjustment to the day-to-day pay legislation. The mentoring system is also relevant if you want to include jobseekers and have training for them. But I thought I would end by saying that it is the destiny of a representative proposal that it often takes time to deal with it. So this proposal for a representative, as in particular: The representative Lundtigen promoted on 8 April, only came to consideration at the end of June, and it is clear that then much of the situation has at least become more precarious. What's my point with this muttering presentation, is to say that when this proposal came, we were in the middle of a discussion about exactly what measures we need. Then the representative Lundtigen and the others who have promoted it must know that this was one of the things we were looking at – whether or not we should grant a block exemption for the mentoring system. Then it was simply assessed that it is more quirky to do so than to do what we ended up doing, namely, a separate grant scheme for the training of workers in seasonal work in the green industry, through the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. Forty million. kr was allocated to it in the revised national budget. It was a faster and more efficient way, also because the Directorate of Agriculture manages the funds and in that way is likely to get them out faster than if we were to start converting Nav's systems. So, although the representative Lundtigen has not received support for his very specific proposal, it has been dealt with in practice. The government has also looked at that, but ended up at a slightly different solution to address the same problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9978	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9983	We've had a lot of things, and what's been going on from the Right and the Advance Party is that it's going to pay off to work. The representative Dale and the Council of State have been champions in order to make work pay off. I referred to what was the daily allowance in relation to the collective agreement. In a previous debate, the Council of State said that Norwegian agriculture is among the lowest-paid. The tariff agreement for horticulture and agriculture has been published. And my question to the Council of State is, which tariff agreement has a lower payment than horticultural and agricultural businesses?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9990	I don't think I can think of anyone, but that's possible. If it's not the lowest generalized rate, it's probably among the very lowest.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e9995	That's the lowest one. And that's not the work that's easiest in the sense that it's least tiring. The Council of State refers to a number of schemes within the Nav system. The industry is gradually so tired of hearing this, because reality is another. Nav's ability to do something doesn't work. So one has to have powerful measures. The situation is so serious that Fäder municipality, for example, has said that they are unable to assist in this area. How long should critically important labour be paid in this way because industry profitability is so weak? That's the big question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e10005	It is not the Stortinget that puts wages in this country. It's the parties that do. And a generalized tariff is just that -- it's a generalized tariff. In practice, it involves — not just in practice, which means that it is the statutory minimum wage. But that doesn't mean that the Storting has set the statutory minimum wage, it's the parties that do. It is possible to make other government councils think about the pay level, but there is nothing a government council should think about. So I want to say that some of those who have that tough party right now, of course, are the green industry, because there's a lot of foreign labour. They've got a lot of nerve. The measures for the protection of infectious diseases are being taken hard. I am probably not sure whether the policy of Per Olaf Lundtägen with unforeseeable political quotas each year for how many are going to enter will make the predictability of a profitable part of the agricultural industry better in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e10012	I can assure the Council of State that Per Olaf Lundtägen's agricultural policy is about keeping to work with the workers who are going to secure us the food seam, and they are going to live in Norway, and then we are going to have a supplement. I respect collective agreements, and therefore the proposal was that the mentor agreement should provide an opportunity for income for the person who took the job, and an income for the person who provided the training, which was so interesting. That's what was at the heart of it all. But what is the big challenge now is that the government, with the Prime Minister at the head, has said that it is critically important labour, it was so essential to get this in place, and then it is not willing in an offensive way to change the situation, so that we can get more residents in Norway, along with the guest workers, to solve the mission.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e10017	It is quite right that the government believes that the risk of infectious imports has made it necessary to limit labour force immigration to Norway. This applies to everyone. In practice, it has not been possible to enter the labour force. That was the starting point for the introduction of restrictions on entry. I think that was necessary, and I think it was important in a situation where import infection posed a major threat. Furthermore, there is still a major threat, and it is still such that when infection rates are lower in Norway, and have gone down, the threat of import infection suggests that we should have entry restrictions for a long time in the future. My point was simply that the representative Lundtigen repeatedly calls for political-driven quotas for foreign labour every year, and then it is not the representative Lundtigen who can decide on the only sector that will receive it every year. It must be a paradox when one of the profitable parts of agriculture then requires predictability and experience a lack of predictability this year due to infection protection restrictions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e10024	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e10031	The centre party has always been behind the rules on infectious diseases introduced by the government. They have led to a critical shortage of labour. We have taken it seriously and tried to make proposals that would improve access to labour in Norway. There has been no special will from the government to do so. It now has e.g. as a result of which the suppliers of cucumbers to the canning industry have had to withdraw from their contracts, which has led to too low deliveries to the canning industry because the canning industry has kept the prices of the canning contracts down. Thus, a number of farmers have seen that the high costs and risks are not profitable. Then we come in the situation that the same companies then want to import raw materials without customs duties. What's happening is not a surprise. It's something you could predict a long time ago. Here we have a system that is such that the prices of raw materials are to be kept down, wages are to be kept down, it is not going to be attractive for people living in Norway, production goes down, and the degree of maritime supply and food security goes down all the time. This is one of the most important questions a new government has to solve, because it cannot continue that way. At least one cannot then talk about improving food security and thinking that one can do it with a payment that is among the lowest in Norway in terms of paid labour and is also the lowest for those who are farmers. I am very grateful that we have now received a peasant revolt that has led us to get attention around this, so that we can get the actual number material and get a discussion around the line that has been conducted for quite a number of years, which means that cheap, cheap, cheap has been overall in terms of food. As I said, very many of those who have entered into these quotas that the government has set for guest workers for agriculture have, once they have arrived, gone away from their contracts with farmers and took work in the construction sector and have then been able to obtain a payment that is approximately 60-70 kroner higher compared to the general agreement on tariffs. This is quite critical, but I see that there is no willingness to do anything about this, but we get another big deal, and that we get a center party that dares to put power behind the demands, so that there will be a balance between agricultural work and other work in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e10044	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 23rd Last@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-10.ana.ud521e10059	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
