ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e28	For the sake of infection prevention, the President will propose that the public gallery be closed even during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e44	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office saying that Prime Minister Erna Solberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. The first main question is from the representative Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e53	I have just visited Subterranean Secondary School, and it was a fine building, but an empty building and an expression of shut-down and a quite depressing status of a closed capital for many, many weeks. A week ago, the Prime Minister announced the plan for opening up, and she then highlighted three important criteria for moving towards a more normal society: the infection situation out there, the insertions, etc. capacity of the healthcare system, in particular intensive capacity; the availability of vaccines; The vulnerability we have had in this time has been linked to the import infection. It was important for the first wave, the second wave, and the third wave. It's proven that we haven't had enough control. The aim is not to close Norway but to control access to Norway. The consequence of not getting the AstraZeneca vaccine and not getting the Johnson & Johnson vaccine as planned is that this one of three important criteria for opening is weakened. After all, we are left with the thematics of strong measures, strict measures to prevent infection, or also the need to look at the vaccine strategy with new eyes. The vaccines we have, should they be distributed in other ways? There have been votes on the issue of vulnerable groups in the world of work, teachers, those in the front line – a different emphasis on where there is a high risk of infection. It's one week after a plan where the prime minister said you had four phases. The first phase was initiated yesterday, as we understand it – then it would normally be three weeks to the next phase. The question is, after one week and what we now know about the vaccines, what we know about the vulnerability to infection: does the Prime Minister have a plan B with regard to what she launched last week – for vaccine distribution, for the need to strengthen and escalate the intensive capacity of hospitals that can handle it, possibly more stringent measures to regulate the infection?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e76	Yesterday's news about the Janssen vaccine, that is, Johnson & Johnson's vaccine, was of course negative news, because this is a one-dose vaccine that would have made us pre-vaccinated at a much earlier time. We still have very good results. There's some positive news in the last few days, too, and that's the results of the vaccines we now have, that they actually give even less spread of infection, as it looks, than you've thought they'd do in the past. There is always an ongoing discussion of the time intervals between the first and second doses. One of the things the Institute of Public Health is now doing is looking at the time between the first and second doses, precisely because giving many first doses will give us a significantly higher level of protection in the population. However, we will follow the technical advice on such a clear medical question as that – how long is tolerable. We're also constantly looking at changes in distribution. What we did a few weeks before Easter, from a population of over 65 to population size, has given a significantly larger distribution of vaccines to the Central East region, since it is much more populous. What we're also doing is we have a certain degree of bias to those neighborhoods and places in the Gulf that have had persistent infection the longest. On the issue of action, we have an action fan. And there is probably an error in the reasoning for the representative Gahr Støre, namely that it would take three weeks from the first step in the opening. It didn't. So it was from the second/third to the third and the fourth, because we said that the first step was a preparatory step. We didn't think we were going to be able to get into the second step of this before in the second half of May. So it'll mean over a month away, even in what was said last week.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e89	It has to be understood that if the Janssen vaccine doesn't come, we get a postponement, it can be up to three months. This means that the measures we have in this region and in some other regions of Norway will last. So the question is, what do we do in the meantime with that? What do we do with what must be a fair crisis policy, in a situation where the crisis strikes socially crooked and unfair? There are some who are particularly vulnerable, while others of us can live more normal lives. I want to challenge the Prime Minister in the 12 additional weeks that may come in relation to this – it can happen: what is required to meet it with a crisis policy in the case of companies that may be at risk of going beyond the end, in the case of those who lose a job, get out of work, do not come back to work – and not least the young people now experience with closed schools, and the challenge we face in the area of mental health and stress? What does the Prime Minister think? Is there a need to think new and more actively about it as a result of the possibility of a postponement in view of when the opening comes?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e96	It is important to remember that the majority of the Janssen vaccine would have arrived in June. We have foreseen that before we had a major share of the Janssen vaccine within our vaccine program, we would already be able to open up more in the Norwegian economy. So there's another type of vaccine distribution and strategy that might be able to open up more. But we have to focus clearly and clearly on the protection of infection. It is also such that, in all likelihood, warmer weather – and we all hope that soon will – will contribute to dampening some of the spread of infection, it is suggested that it can be so. But it is clear that we will keep up with the fact that, as long as we have strict measures to protect the disease, we must also have good follow-up measures, both for groups exposed to infectious diseases that restrict them in their activities and for businesses that do. We have always said that as long as we have strict measures, we must also follow up with good measures for both people and business.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e101	There will be follow-up questions – first Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e106	As this is also a commodity, there is reason to dwell on the issue of import infection, which has been the vulnerable. The Prime Minister says that all infectious diseases are actually infectious to imports. Yeah, it might have started with Adam and Eve, but we're living now. The import infection was important for the first wave, when leisure travellers arrived, for labour immigration which was poorly controlled last summer, and for the test capacity that was missing. We also saw it as a consequence when the third wave came. For a long time, the Prime Minister and the government replied that we had the strictest rules in Europe, this was in charge, there was no need to do so, and the professional authorities did not recommend it. Now I see a slightly larger willingness to see that you might not be there, even from the Directorate of Health, and that there is a need for improvement. My question is, What lessons has the Prime Minister drawn from this? The point is not to close the limits, but to have control at the limits. What lessons has the Prime Minister learned, and what is there a need to do in order for us to have better control over the coming time?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e113	At the moment, we have a very strict control at the border with Norway. We've had the strictest rules all along, we've had the lowest threshold to get into Norway without being quarantined. But what I've said before is that we were too long based on trust in quarantine. The fact that we assumed that people were able to keep the infection protection throughout the quarantine period when they could take quarantine at home – in the same house, on a cabin or elsewhere, that they then held the two-meter, that they had their own bath – has proved not to work. It has also been shown that not all migrant workers have been under the type of conditions that enable them to maintain their protection against infection. That is why we have tightened up, we tightened up in the autumn, and we tightened up – and the recommendation came clearly from the professional authorities that we should introduce testing systems – when the mutations came. That's why there are now very strict rules for who can come, and it's mandatory quarantine hotels for anyone who comes. We treat people as equals. So as long as it hasn't been a work trip, you have to go to a quarantine hotel.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e118	Jonas Gahr Støre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e123	It's kind of like the Prime Minister here somehow blames people -- she trusted them, but they weren't worthy of trust. It's the responsibility of the authorities to rig a control system, which means that we have control, and that we can communicate it out to the authorities. However, I would say that on every occasion when we address these questions, the answer has been: we are the most stringent in Europe – we have control. In retrospect, we know that this was crucial for the first wave, and for the second wave. It was also crucial for the third wave. The infection came after the Prime Minister said that Norway was closed for all practical purposes. I just want to ask the question: now we're in the middle of April. There's going to be persistent challenges with the infection pressure. Vaccines may be delayed. Does the Prime Minister see any challenge with regard to the phenomenon of ‘import infection’ in the coming period?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e131	The import challenge means that we have to be strict in the future. But the last reports we've received are that 1 pst. the infection in Oslo is linked to import infection. Then it's limited to what's measured at the limit. The rest is infection that spreads in the population. So it's a pretty low proportion that's infected by import infection. It is clear that we are now demanding everyone to be at a quarantine hotel, which is very intrusive. It's discussed. But that's what will be necessary if we can't rely on a trust-based system. The working party has never at any time suggested that we place everyone in the quarantine hotel. The working party believed until November that we should not have compulsory testing at the border. Then they agreed to the proposal of the Progress Party. We followed the professional authorities, and the majority of Storting agreed, until we got the mutations. Then we introduced testing on the border and larger control systems. We saw that it was not just labour immigration that caused the spread to Norway – it was, in fact, the second import infection. That is why we introduced a compulsory quarantine hotel.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e138	Jonas Gahr Støre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e143	This post is an expression of how wrong this has been. Now the Prime Minister says that the Labour Party has never proposed this. The working party has never been invited to propose or evaluate this. It is the Prime Minister who at monthly and weekly press conferences announces what she has concluded after listening to the professional authorities. When it comes to critical questions from the Storting, they say, you didn't have any other alternatives. I haven't been in meetings with the Health Directorate or the Public Health Institute. These are powers that the Prime Minister has taken, and which she has unilaterally communicated abroad. So if there is to be a division of responsibility as to what measures have been taken on infectious diseases, the Prime Minister will have to take the decisions of the Stortinget. Then she gets to think as the Danish Prime Minister has done, so that in Stortinget it is also anchored by a strategy for the protection of infectious diseases – not just emergency measures. It's a strategy that she has to implement. She cannot come back afterwards and say that there is almost an alternative out there, which has not been tested against the professional authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e148	The representative Jonas Gahr Støre keeps repeating that the Workers' Party has been critical, and that the Workers' Party has had other alternatives in various debates. And then you also have to bear in mind that those options are not what is actually the solution now. It is also part of the political debate. Then I would like to remind the representative Jonas Gahr Støre that I have invited the Stortinget to participate in this. I wrote a letter to the presidency and the parliamentary leaders of the autumn, inviting you to a discussion on how the Stortinget wanted to be orientated and participate in this discussion. The answer was that when the Prime Minister thought it was something new to come with or something else he wanted to inform the Storting about, one would do so in presentations. We have followed that recommendation since it was wanted. We were open to other ways of dealing with things with the Storting, because we felt that the cooperation we had in ours, with the Corona selection, where we were informing about different things, was an important way of having an informal discussion, even though it was not formally for the Storting. So there's probably more parts of this story than that Jonas Gahr Støre spends a lot of time telling.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e155	Tuva Moflag – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e160	I live at Langhus in the municipality of Nordre Follo. We were the epicenter of the first outbreak of the British mutation in Norway, with the outbreak that started at Langhus residence and service centre. At the Birdeåsen at Langhus you will also find Norway's largest daily rest area for long-distance transport drivers. That is why I asked the Minister for Transport a question about the protection of infection and the safety here at the end of January. When the local viewer called at the daily rest area in the eastern part of the country, there were about 100 foreign and one Norwegian car parked there. This gives cause for concern. The concern was no less when the NRK announced this weekend that up to 120 infected foreign drivers could enter Norway every week, estimated by the Health Directorate. Everyone has a derogation from the limit test requirement. They're getting rid of quarantine, too. My question is, why is mandatory testing of long-distance drivers not implemented at the border, as recommended by the FHI?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e169	This is one of the really big challenges we've been facing, the question of whether we're going to introduce testing and the importance it will have for the security of supply of Norway, for the transport companies' willingness to transport to Norway, and for our ability to get all the necessary supplies. The reason why we have what is called recreational quarantine, which means that you have to stay in the car, not visit accommodation, not be anywhere else when you are in Norway, is that yes, we see that there is a concern about infection, but we have to weigh it against the consequences this would have for the supply of vaccines to Norway, the supply of food to Norway, the supply of medicines to Norway, because it is such a big part of it. A trailer that is stopped at the border due to a positive test could lead to significant delays and could result in a threat to the entire security of supply. That's the assessment behind this. So you can imagine that that assessment could be different, but we have not wanted to take the chance of rocking Norway's security of supply.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e178	Tuva Moflag – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e183	Yes, then the Prime Minister takes the chance that foreign drivers with infection can enter my local environment. I do not quite understand, because in previous answers to the representative Gahr Støre, the emphasis has been on following professional advice, and here FHI has recommended that these drivers be tested at the border since January. This is not about putting them in a ten-day quarantine. We understand that fresh goods must enter the country. But we've got the fastest here on Stortinget. It takes 15-20 minutes to get tested until the answer is clear. When we had the discussion about testing into the maternity wards, the health minister said that access to rapid tests was not a problem. Why is it not possible to use rapid tests at the border and to test long-distance drivers, as recommended by the FHI? Why does the Prime Minister want to take that risk of getting infected into the country every week?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e188	It's because if you test positive and the transport stays standing, it's important – it's very important. The risk of positive testing will have a bearing on whether or not to undertake transport operations. It's like what's the main reason. That's the assessment we've made, that this could stop the supply lines into Norway and the transport lines out of Norway. That's why we've chosen to have mouthbands when you're out of the trailer and that you have to have leisure quarantines by not looking elsewhere to limit it. I say this is a difficult assessment, but the assessment has been that this can stop our security of supply. Thus, there is no lack of testing, but the consequence of a positive test can help to prevent fish from entering the market or not to enter Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e195	Erlend Wiborg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e201	It's uncertain times, and our job as politicians is to create as much predictability as we can in these unpredictable times. Recently, the Centre Party and the Workers' Party were able to press the government to introduce their own compensation scheme for residents of Romania, Poland, Latvia, Spain, Sweden and other EEA countries. The government then chooses to add over a billion dollars per month. At the same time, the government refuses to participate in and secure jobs in Norway by improving the rules of leave. Does the Prime Minister think it is the right priority to spend more than a billion dollars on non-residents in Norway, while saying no to strengthen the rules on leave, which can secure jobs in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e206	The non-nationals receiving support are people who have a form of permanent employment, permanent commuting with Norway. There are people who also pay taxes to Norway but because of these rules have not earned the same rights to day money in Norway. They are entitled to a daily allowance if they had become normally unemployed, but since this is an exclusion from being allowed to go to work, they do not receive a daily allowance, because it does not cover that legislation. That we've made such an arrangement, we've meant to be right. We also believe that it would be difficult in view of the EEA Agreement when we have decided that they should not be allowed to come to Norway, not to give them compensation. And to put it that way: it would have been a significant burden on our relationship with our neighbouring country, especially with Sweden, which has many citizens who are in Norway and pay taxes to Norway, but which has been excluded from being able to work because of the entry rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e211	Erlend Wiborg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e216	Then it might be interesting to ask the Prime Minister to explain to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs which other EEA countries have similar arrangements for the Nordics working there. The Prime Minister gives the impression that this primarily applies to residents in Sweden. There are over 80 000 people who benefit from these schemes. The large majority live in Eastern Europe – in Romania, in Latvia, in Poland, in Lithuania – and, as I said, it costs over a billion dollars. The government implements this so that they will receive sick pay even if they are healthy, but we know that the Nordics who receive sick pay or other Nav benefits are through a rather strict control regime that ensures that they do not, for example, receive sick pay. works alongside. What control regime does the Prime Minister see for these persons, those who receive these benefits? Or should the control regime only apply to Norwegian workers?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e223	I think it is important to stress that Norway now has exceptionally much stricter rules for getting in and working than most other European countries. I do not know whether there are cases where Norwegian citizens who have a permanent job in other countries are now excluded from the authorities of those countries. But not least the Party of Advances has been concerned that we should have control of the import virus. These are the measures to control the import centre. So the question is, should people who usually contribute to the creation of value in Norway, who usually contribute to the circulation of the wheels, who contribute to the construction of roads, who contribute to the operation of the Norwegian shipyards, who contribute to being an important labour force for Norwegian society, experience that because they do not fit into the day-to-day pay system – to which they are entitled – they will not receive some sort of compensation? So that's what we thought was unreasonable when it lasted as long as this. We really thought the day-to-day payment system would work for this. It doesn't, because it's not the way the legislation is. So we've created a different system, which isn't sick money, but is based on the disease money model, but with compensation on the level of the daily allowance.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e230	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e235	I understand the Prime Minister's arguments about getting goods into the country, that we need to have a flow of goods into the country, and that testing, of course, can have its challenges. Nevertheless, we believe that in the centre part it would have been right also in the case of truck drivers and trailer drivers. But then there's one more thing about this with truck transport. It's that you have the opportunity to drive a cabotage, i.e. you can drive on domestic missions. If you have a truck that comes with goods e.g. To Vestby, you can take domestic missions and drive from Vestby to Bergen, from Bergen to Trondheim, from Trondheim to Oslo again and looked like – three missions domestic. There's no testing either. The Norwegian Freight Car Association has taken up several rounds with the government that one should at least have a system in which those who are going to have domestic driving should be tested. Then my question to the Prime Minister is: Isn't it a reasonable requirement that those who are going to run cabotage, i.e. take domestic missions, should be tested, and that the contracting entity has a responsibility for the trailer drivers to take a test in the future? Will the Prime Minister do anything about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e242	The Institute of Public Health has now gone through this and made a report. They're working with the Ministry of Transport, we're getting it to the government, and we're going to look at these questions. I've been talking about the dilemma we have. I do not disagree with the Battle of Vedum that there may be types of restrictions that can be introduced into such a system without jeopardising security of supply. There will be some EEA legal challenges, since the possibility of taking on this kind of mission is regulated against the free movement of services in our society, but I do not disagree that it is possible to look at other and restrictive rules on how to enter without testing. But we just have to be aware that it can have a downside, all of it, and the downside is that what we've been able to get since day one of this pandemic, that the security of supply in Norway has not been threatened, and things have worked, can become more difficult if we, not least as the only country in Europe, impose other restrictions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e249	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e254	The health service has made a formidable effort under the pandemic, redistributing resources and addressing the major challenge posed by the pandemic. But waiting times and health cows have also arisen, which are increasing. More lives with pain, with uncertainty, and they're waiting for help. That is why the Progress Party has provided us with more money to make use of the capacity of private health care: 600 million. kr i revised last year and 250 mill. extra on the year's budget. The problem only seems to be that the money is not used for this. The Prime Minister answered questions from the representative, Siv Jensen, on 14 October 2020: ‘We signal more purchases, tenders and use of private goods.’ Unfortunately, the signals do not seem to help. Several private health professionals report free capacity in areas where waiting times have increased. Aleris in Bergen and Oslo have free capacity. The operating room in Bergen is empty, while there are long waiting times in Health Bergen. Nevertheless, there will be fewer referrals, patient failure, from the public health service. The progress party believes it is unsustainable that our citizens have to go around with pain and uncertainty even if money is granted, and even if there is free capacity. The Group of Advancers has been in contact with the Ministry of Health if they can explain the status of the use of the money, but they cannot. Does the Prime Minister think it acceptable that many in Norway live in pain and uncertainty when money is granted and there is no capacity in the private health service?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e263	It is quite right that money has been allocated to take down the queues both internally in the public health service and by private means. It was within the government's side also a good job this year to come back again in shorter waiting times. It has been important for the government to reduce the waiting time in the healthcare system, and we have very good results over the years before the pandemic at which the waiting time went down, not least for the most vulnerable groups in mental health and drug care. So I don't have an overview right now of why there might be no available capacity for some private ones and it's not being exploited. It is also the case that the health professionals they have are now using towards the work where there is the greatest pressure from the pandemic, to use the personnel there to repair the public health system. But we agree with the Progress Party that we should use the capacity we have. People should not go unnecessarily and wait for surgery in Norway. We need to ensure that where there is capacity, it should be implemented. But we have to assume that when we have high pressure, and we are at a yellow level on health services in several parts of the country, resources are also transferred from the treatment of non-time-critical operations – often especially those when some treatments are stopped – to intensive work and covid-19 work. It's part of the plan we have to be able to rust up to take more pressure from the health care system.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e271	Then I hope it gets caught up in, because while private people have failed to make referrals from the public health service, they're going to laugh. It's because there's strong growth in the private paying market, i.e. patients who pay off their own pocket, and health insurance. The Progress Party believes that it is a very unfortunate development that those with a thick wallet do not queue, that those with a thick wallet are given access to medicines and treatments that are rejected in the public health system. Without a thick wallet, we see that more and more bulls are pushing for collection actions, such as us. have seen that the parents of little Ulrik in 4 years, who have an eye disease that can make him blind, must start with. Without own money and without collection action, many are referred to at the end of the queue, even if the capacity is in the private health service. Does the Prime Minister think it is acceptable that people should pay for collection actions themselves or for collecting them in order to release pain, uncertainty and months and years in line to get help?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e278	I believe that we should have a good, publicly funded healthcare system in Norway, that the healthcare system should provide good services, and that it should be pragmatic in the use of private providers in areas where private individuals can contribute to the better functioning of the public sector, or better and wider provision of services. That is the goal we have, and that therefore it must be unnecessary to have a private insurance policy in order to be able to get the usual types of treatment, treatments that the public provides. However, there will be some testing treatments and treatments that the public does not provide, because we have a prioritisation system for what is public responsibility and how to treat it. There will always be someone who wants to push to collect money, spend their own money to try out drugs and treatments that the public doesn't deliver today. We're trying to expand, and we've expanded, the tried-and-tested treatments from the government so that more people can participate in new research studies, but we're not going to fully achieve that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e283	It opens for follow-up questions – first Sylvi Listhaug.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e288	The account for society that people are sick to wait up for a year and more for treatment is simply cruel. Let's take a nurse with a back brace. There's a lot of pain for the person in question. Oslo University Hospital has a waiting time for this operation of 53 weeks. Let's say that this nurse has an income of approx. 500,000 kroner a year. The treatment at Aleris to take this back prolapse is NOK 62000. In other words, society will save over 400,000 kroner. And not just that: the one that matters will be saved for great pain. Does the Prime Minister think it makes sense to have people on foot sick when it costs a lot of money to buy treatment from private actors, so that you can reduce pain and get back to work faster?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e295	I fully agree that it sounds very logical, a reasoning of this kind, that then we spend money getting people back faster. However, it is contrary to the prioritisation of the government which has informed the Storting that we have, as the Storting has helped to deal with, and as the Progress Party, when they are in government, stood behind, that it is not how profitable one is in society, which is crucial for getting treatment. People are equivalent in our society, so a calculation based on what society is doing to get back to work is not a control parameter for the treatment we provide in our health care system. A home-working woman who is prolapsed shall be treated in the same way as one who is active. A 70-year-old woman who has become a pensioner, who may then have less socio-economic value, is to be treated in the same way as a 25-year-old who has been prolapsed. That's our system. That was the rules of priority we laid down. That's why I'm here for private work, but the reasoning that it pays for society to get the individual back, we didn't choose to lay the foundations in the government – which was also a member of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e302	Sylvi Listhaug - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e307	Whether they work or not, at least the pain is great, the treatment capacity is there, and it's about will. Children and young people pay a very high price under the pandemic. Over a year is gone – precious time in a young life. Much of what they've been looking forward to, highlights, is either amputated or canceled, whether it's confirmation, rush hour, school ball or other events. There is a call for warnings about the mental health of children and young people. There has been a three-fold increase in the number of people seeking help for eating disorders. There are more requests, they're healthier than before, and they're younger than before. The number of suicidal thoughts is also increasing. Children and young people who have had a hard time in the past have got worse, and they spend more time with violent perpetrators and perpetrators. The delayed effects of the pandemic can be very serious. What will the Prime Minister do to help children and young people in desperate need of help to deal with eating disorders and other mental challenges resulting from the pandemic?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e316	These are the same themes I presented in the reopening strategy we had last week, where I pointed out five key areas for follow-up, and which the government will also come back to in the revised national budget. The big and obvious thing is to get people back to work, but we also have these more medical and child-related challenges, which are education, the consequences of being ill with covid-19, violence and abuse in homes and mental health. All those things we've done a lot on. We've spent 2.8 billion. More recently, the pandemic started to respond to vulnerable groups, but we need to do even more in the future. Clearly, to the extent that we can start reopening, there will be new measures that will be easier to implement. We've been concerned that there should be low-threshold facilities, and we're going to use more resources to build up specialist health services. In January, the Progress Party agreed with the government parties to spend 100 million. SEK more for the specialist health service and SEK 100 million. I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Work is now in progress on building more capacity, including: on eating disorders.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e325	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e330	The Right Party and the Progressive Party have had a major influence in all their reforms, and it has been magnificence and centralisation. When it came to centralizing the police, it was called the near-police reform, but it was the centralisation of the times. When it came to merging municipalities, it was called the reform of democracy. It was coerced. They've centralized the tax administration, Nav, District Courts, colleges. It has been like a single big joint project – economies of scale have been the answer. We have received and had the most centralizing government of the time, and politics has consequences. In our northernmost part of the country, 7 746 people have been lost in the last two years. There's 7,746 more people who moved out of the country than they moved in. Last autumn, the district industry commission, which was to go through district policy, saw the causes and the importance of business for housing and development throughout Norway — a very interesting selection. If you read what's written, it's very clear speech, and I want to quote: «Public sector places of work, and in particular in the country, are more centralised than in the business community.» Thus, the fact that employment in the country is more centralised than in the business community is one of the conclusions of the district industry committee. Then my question to the Prime Minister is: Does the Prime Minister agree with the district industry committee that it is the state that has centralised the most?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e344	I disagree with the Battle of Vedum's description of what has been the government's main strategy. Our main strategy has been better services for people. It has been moving money and people from moving paper, through digitisation, to transferring them to providing services in municipalities and countries. We think that's the right way to go. That means that there are some jobs in the state that are no longer there, no place, because we have transferred this to digital solutions. It gives open 24 hours a day for people. It gives services closer. The second thing we've been busy about is the quality of those services, and of course the room for the community sector to grow with the needs we have in the future in the health and care sector. The care sector for the municipal sector and the health sector are for the country. It's been a wild policy. Some of it means that there are fewer bureaucrats from the state sitting around doing these tasks, and there are more assistants, nurses, university teachers and others working with teaching. It is a wild modernisation of the public sector, and it also means that there are some government jobs disappearing, but then there are other types of government jobs coming after it. The type of solutions also means that some of these state jobs are less widespread, but our objective is quality. Our goal is to use digitization to modernise, provide better services to people wherever they live. Now, when we put an important and active strategy for much lower costs than ever before to make sure that we actually get both broadband and 5G around the country, it also means that we look at the strategy for moving more of the ordinary jobs we have in the country, out to other places, like, for example. The Ministry of Industry, which now has independent ministerial members for the first time, is an exciting new project.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e358	It was a creative answer and a creative storywriting. Then I realize that the Prime Minister does not want to answer what is the conclusion of the district committee, that it is the state that centralizes the most. That's the conclusion of the district committee, and it's probably a little uncomfortable for the prime minister to read, because it's also a verdict on her policy. This is how the state has increased – from Prime Minister Erna Solberg came in and for the first six years she joined the Progress Party, the state increased by 21,259 employees. But it's just that there are some municipalities that have gone negative. The 261 municipalities that have lost have lost 9,192 jobs. So there has been a massive centralisation with the Prime Minister’s policy – more and more jobs are concentrated in fewer and fewer places. My political question to the Prime Minister is: Does not the Prime Minister find it a problem that the state is withdrawing from large parts of District Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e367	The state does not withdraw from large parts. We're here with the services, we're there to work, we're here digitally, but we're doing good services differently. I think it's a little bit interesting with these numbers that the Center Party has now used in the media, because they know, among other things. that more than 3000 of those jobs are actually the result of a decision by the red-green government, namely that the hospital in Østfold was moved, by building new ones, from Fredrikstad to Sarpsborg. More than 3,000 of the jobs that the representative now mentions are due to the fact that a hospital has moved, not very far, but between two municipalities that are almost assembled, which was done by the red-green government. Then it'll be fixed with numbers when you use that type of number. This could be thought of if you had not known it in advance, but the representative of the Battle of Vedum knew it, for it was in the response from the department. But he hasn't mentioned it every time he's talked about these numbers in the media.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e374	It opens for follow-up questions – first Tryful Battle Force Vedum.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e379	The Prime Minister and I just disagree on how to organise the Norwegian state. Looking at the list of the 260 – to cut out Fredrikstad, if it is a problem to worry about developments in Fredrikstad – you can see that there are classically small and medium-sized places around Norway that have lost jobs. So the prime minister says yes, but then we can solve things digitally. Let me give you a specific example. Let's do the Salang. There's a big look in today's World Gang on the centralization of the police. Of course, those who live in Salangen will probably come to the police at the police.no, but the problem is that when the crisis is there, the police will not come. Let me quote the local fireman: ‘We haven’t police here, so the fire department is called out and is in the past in most cases. So we act as an alternate. At least that's how we experience it." The fireman estimates that it will usually take one to two hours before the police arrive at the scene. Does Prime Minister Erna Solberg think it is a step forward that the police are not getting there? Is that part of the so-called modernisation to the Right?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e389	We can take different quotations. I can use one from the rapporteur in Lyngen, whom we from the government have used many times before from the Parliamentary Chair. He pointed out that he now sees more police, faster than before. He said something like that before they really just made up because it took so long before the police came, but with more police on wheels it actually comes more. Then I want to say one thing: we see that in the fight against crime, there have been important reinforcements, not least when it comes to child abuse – and other things. Then we see that we need even more police in the districts. That is why there is an important message in the communication we presented on the further development of the police, that once we have achieved the major objectives of better preparedness, with the provision of two per thousand inhabitants, we also need to have more capacity out in the police districts, and that it means more on wheels and more that can get out. We want to build that up in the future. In the future, we believe that this is where the priority must be, even more presence. But police reform has given us better quality, better systems, more legal certainty in Norway, and not least where crime and crime are happening today, and it is online.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e396	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e401	Looking at the statistics – which is probably uncomfortable for the prime minister – as far as the police are concerned, it can be seen that the number of times they arrive later at a place of injury is higher and higher. In 2016 they were first to repair 68 pst. At times, now they're 61 pst. at times. There is a consequence that the police are withdrawing, and then it is the part-time fireman and others who have to take the job instead. But let's move on to one of the government's great prestige reforms. Erna Solberg forced through the coup d'état and created the strange Viken region. I have sometimes wondered why it was done when the people were so opposed. Why coercion Troms and Finnmark reach 87 p.m. Did the population say no to aggregation? Erna Solberg gave to the Left in the morning – it was called – that you should lay down a legal district food, fur animal nutrition. There was no investigation, you just put it down. Was it the concern of the Left that forced the Vikings and the Troms and Finnmarks, or was it for the sake of a better offer for the country's population?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e410	We carried out a regional reform because the Christian People's Party and the Left in the context of the work on the municipal reform in 2014-2015 wanted it to be seen in the context that we should do it at the same time. That is why it is a regional reform. It was not initially part of the platform of the then government from the Right and the Advance Party – not so abnormal or strange since both parties are really to lower this level of the region. For 20 years, we've been discussing what they're going to do. Everyone in the opposition has intended to do much more, and no one – once they have come into government – has been able to carry out particularly many new tasks at regional level. We then agreed that it was important perhaps to try – if we are to add more tasks – to have some larger units, so that the quality of the services improved. We've also done more problems. Someone probably wanted them to get even more problems. But this is the background for us having this reform. In the case of Viken, the starting point is that Buskerud wanted, and the majority of the politicians in Buskerud thought that they should hang out with Akershus and Østfold, not with Westfold and Telemark.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e417	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e422	I understand that the Prime Minister does not want so much to defend the coercion she chose to do, or that the Right Party and the Advance Party chose to do. Yesterday, a new poll was presented by NRK Oslo and Viken, which Infact had taken up. That's what 73 pst said. by those living in Eastfold, that they wish to return to Akershus, Buskerud and Eastfold. 18.6 p.m. continued to support the Viken as one state. I listened to the entry, and there was one of the Viking’s “mothers” with them. It was Ingjerd Schou, she sat in the room where you drew the new map. She also said that the Viken was really a bad idea, that Eastfold County was a better idea. Is that how to understand that the Right has coerced the states, right-wing representatives think it's a bad idea, everyone thinks it's a bad idea, the Prime Minister won't defend it, and the only reason is that you wanted to have power and would give a victory to the Left?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e427	I would like to defend that we have got the structure we have, but when the representative asks me what caused us to have a regional reform, I honestly answer what caused the regional reform. I assume that the purpose is for the Prime Minister to answer questions honestly. And this is not so strange, because it's obviously a decision in Stortinget, not something that was in the government platform. On the other hand, I would like to say that I come from the county of Westland. I come from the party that was most opposed to the establishment of the county of Westland, namely Bergen Right. We're very pleased with how Westland works. We are satisfied and believe that this was a good idea. I feel that the drones think it is good, I feel that Agder states think it is good, and I really feel that in the Inland this is seen as a good thing. In fact, many parts of the regional reform are important. And the reason that Buskerud joined Eastfold and Akershus was a wish of the Bushers. Instead of coming together with Vestfold and Telemark, they thought this was the right direction for the housing and labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e435	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e440	I then realize that it is not the Prime Minister, the Right Party and the Progress Party here in the Grand Duchy who are responsible, it is the Bushers who are responsible for the coercion of the states. I think that's a little weird, but I guess that's the way it is. It's probably one of the things Erna Solberg hopes that we can change, I think, when she leaves the offices, because she even thinks it was a bad solution. Another thing the government has done: there's a lot of talk about taxes and taxes, but when you look at tax measures that have been about those who have a long way to go, it's always been a sharpening, for example. The country's commuters have experienced a strong tax consolidation under Prime Minister Erna Solberg. Those who depend on the short-haul network have experienced that charges have increased so much that the flight offer has become worse around Norway. And when you were going to make the ferries more green, the state didn't take the bill, the ferry prices have gone up and hit those that are most dependent on transport in Norway. The government has now announced a triple of the CO 2 fee. Has the government made any calculations on what district impact it might have?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e450	We are going to do, for each step, in the follow-up to the increase in the CO 2 tax, to do what is the basis, as is also stated in the Climate Communication, that we are going to bring back to the consumers or industries the same financial resources that are being absorbed through this. We can do this through general tax reliefs, targeted tax reliefs or other types of schemes linked to industries. For us, the starting point is that this should not add to the burden in the districts, but that we should be able to bring money back to people. So maybe the representative Battle Force Vedum knows well that those who run the most and e.g. have been most used for the commuting allowance, living in Akershus – as has always been the case in general. It's not that it's the most in District Norway, it's the most in Akershus. Also in Finnmark you run a lot, but it's always been like this in relation to the statistics. So I think it's possible to find good and targeted solutions, but the whole principle that's in our message is that we should return, precisely because we're going to take care of the distribution effects and the district effects of the measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e462	Stein Erik Lauvås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e467	'The Member States have left us' is just one of the statements we have heard from rapporteurs to describe the government's regional policy. We are told that ordinary people experience the strongest policy of centralization in several decades, and the Prime Minister proposes to remove and centralize traffic stations, remove and centralize tax offices, remove and shut down local police, coercion states to regions people have no relation to, commuter deduction cutters, increase the tax on ordinary people, but cuts in taxes to the richest. People are increasingly experiencing differences between city and country, and the flow of migration from districts is only increasing, and the government refuses to do so. So I want to ask the Prime Minister, why is there such a gap in the understanding between ordinary people out there and the government? What are people not understanding?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e474	The government is concerned that we should deliver good district policies and that we should deliver good solutions for the future. Good solutions for the future are that we're doing something with distance drawbacks. That is why we are building a lot more in transport. That's why we're building a lot more digital infrastructure. That's why we make public services more digital, which means that we're actually stretching out more places than they used to be. That is why we have looked at areas where we need particularly good support schemes. We know that the teaching shortage in parts of North Norway has been a challenge. That is why we have also given more and better scholarship schemes to train teachers in North Norway, so that they can stay in the jobs there afterwards. We have taken a number of measures, but at the bottom of it, perhaps the most important measure is a good financial framework for setting up businesses. Before the pandemic hit, there was a shortage of labour in large parts of North Norway. Then we have to have an active policy to recruit the labour force, but it also shows that the economy went well, and it does so in many parts of District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e481	Stein Erik Lauvås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e486	So it was this people who didn't understand. When we launched the Workers' Party's new district bet for some time back with 60 points for a better district policy, the government's own district minister met in Stortinget to answer the government's own job with this. Then, suddenly, we were told that the government would immediately launch a new two-part district policy, and that it was high on the government's table. Now this is a while ago, and we have heard nothing more about this new two-part district policy and what it should contain. So can the Council of State give us – call it – a looping message about what this two-way division of district policy really is? What is going to be twofold in the government's district policy, as the Prime Minister's own Council of State warned?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e493	I understand that you always think that reality is drifting around your own belly button. It is not that we, and our district minister, launched the question of a separate domestic strategy and a separate coastal strategy because the Labour Party had presented something. It was a work that had been done for a while. Of course, it is sad that the representative has not discovered that there are now recording meetings over a low shoe for these. I think a lot of the Labour Party politicians around the country have discovered that, because they've been invited to make recordings. And it's just about understanding that the challenges are different in District Norway. There is a difference between a coastal industry where there is a great deal of economic development that comes from the development of marine food, the development of all the life we have in the sea, and the need for other instruments than the inland, and especially the mountain areas, will be needed. That's the concreteness of the work that it's now working on, and that we're going to post after all the sunmarks before the summer. There it is, among others. green bio-resources, large land use and renewable energy for all of the key themes, such as: domestic.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e498	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e503	SV has submitted a plan to show how we can cut Norwegian CO 2 emissions, greenhouse gas emissions, by over 60 pst. – measures for measures, tonnes per tonne, krone for krone – a revised climate budget for the years up to 2030. We have also put forward a plan for a fair green shift with the food and industrial policy needed to implement a transition that can get us away from oil dependence, through massive efforts on green tasks for industry and through fair solutions, where we combine, for example. making it more expensive to pollute with measures to distribute that money, so that we can keep both the emissions and the differences down. Now that we have taken on ourselves, all parties, offensive climate targets for 2030, all serious parties must have a plan for achieving that goal. Last Thursday dealt with the Stortinget government's climate announcement. At best, it eliminates about half of the emissions that the government has committed us to eliminate through the Paris Agreement — at best, if all of the measures mentioned there are implemented. Yesterday afternoon, the government parties voted against all the opposition proposals that could have given greater cutbacks. In addition, they voted against a number of proposals that provided concrete details of the government's own proposals and commitments to implement them. Does this mean that the Prime Minister and the government are pleased to come halfway to the goal in 2030?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e520	We've put forward a plan to cut what we've promised, 45 pst. in the non-quota sector. The plan presented to the Storting with the measures we have will ensure that we achieve that goal. In addition, the second big piece that we have still depends on the EU quota system. We are actively working on, and the EU itself is also actively working on, tightening up the quota system, so that it will always be more expensive for those within the quota system to have emissions. It will make new technologies and other ways of operating more efficiently. However, in addition to having a slightly passive view of what measures have been targeted at the industry, as former governments have done, we have also had an active attitude by using Enova climate-friendly to trigger new technologies in these sectors. We are working on the framework conditions for this, and we have said that the CO 2 tax will also apply in the areas subject to quota in order to help stimulate extra incentives to release new technologies. I therefore disagree with the representative's claim that we only have a climate policy for half the emissions. However, there is a different climate policy from that of the Centre Party, namely that we are emphasising that we should achieve the Kyoto target with the EU. It has been since the red-green government introduced this into the climate work earlier. There has been an important and stable framework condition for Norwegian business. And we're adding national measures at the top of it to make sure to realize new technology. But we have said before: we can increase CO 2 emissions in Norway if we become the most successful industrial country. If we have the lowest intensity of our emissions in some areas, but still get emissions because we have the best technology, some industries could actually have greater CO 2 emissions in the future. It's quite natural if we actually manage to win in any of these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e540	Now I guess I don't think it's the Center Party's climate policy you're going to stretch and measure up to. My challenge was, of course, the SV's climate policy as the alternative to the government. I would say that although it is absolutely right that the government can show that we have a quota-free sector, and that industry and the oil sector come under it, I don't think anyone in the framework seriously believes that the targets will be achieved in those sectors without an active policy to achieve it. That means we have to have a plan for the industry, and we have to have a plan for the oil sector. That's why I initially said it, quite correctly – the government has only put forward a plan to get halfway to the Paris goals. Then the Prime Minister must also accept a clear challenge to the elections. We have a plan. Will we see the government's plan also for industry and the oil sector, the government's plan to target 2030?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e549	It is a fundamental breach of the way we have dealt with the climate challenges, if we believe that we should not assume the non-discrimination of the allowances system on emissions permits. I think that's fundamental. However, in some areas, action in Norway will be intensified. The other thing we're going to do is we're going to spend a lot of resources -- and we're going to spend a lot of resources. Long-distance shipping is a major lever as a single contribution to this. It probably also triggers more optimism associated with hydrogen. The Minister of Oil and Energy will, on behalf of the Government, present a big message about the energy resources in the future that also shows more of the road map related to it. There's a lot of industrial policy related to the energy solutions that come there. In addition, we are now actively using Enova to implement new climate policies. I disagree with the SV representative that you have an answer from SV. We're busy cutting emissions, but don't cut development. I'm probably afraid SV's policy will cut development. Emissions may decrease, but there may also be less well-being in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e558	There will be follow-up questions – first the Audun Light Bin.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e563	The Prime Minister's response actually shows what is increasingly going to be the dividing lines of climate policy. As fewer and fewer – fortunately – believe that we can not do anything, there will be a larger and larger debate on how to reach the goal. What the government's climate announcement and the Prime Minister's response here show is a blind market belief that will not take us to the goal. The quota market will not resolve the climate crisis. We need, if we are to have a successful transition, to have a much more active business and industrial policy, one that, through strong state involvement, can ensure that we become world leaders on green shipping, can ensure that we get speed on carbon capture and storage, the battery industry, the hydrogen industry, the bio industry – all the great opportunities Norway has. Hasn't the Prime Minister ever seen a single new issue to come before the voters say theirs in September?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e570	I think there's going to be a lot of emissions cut that's going to be advertised from different companies and elsewhere because of the tools we have. We have a number of companies that because of, for example, has significantly increased funds to Enova, now has technology installed to actually reduce emissions. In green shipping, we're leading the world. It's because we've had a green shipping program that's first worked on competence, knowledge, in the decisions with the industry, which now leads to the realization of new technology because we have a focus on hydrogen and its development, and the PILOT-E system related to it, develops new technology. We get the first tenders. We see a pretty interesting picture only in the past six months, when Road Deck will have two hydrogen or zero-emission solutions along the coast of trucks, when we see ASKO's bet on Oslofjord. We see several shipping companies that have it, and the Shipowners' Association has followed closely up. There will be many measures that will show that we are going to bring down different emissions because we are technology optimizations, because we are working on technology development.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e577	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e582	Many of these proposals are good, but it's not useful just to be a technology optimist, you have to have a technology policy that actively contributes to getting more of this. But let's go a little further, because when the government parties were to vote on the climate announcement, 140 proposals from the red-green opposition were voted down that could contribute to significant emissions cuts. It was consistently chosen not to vote in favour of opposition proposals, with a few exceptions. There was one proposal by the government parties to vote in favour, namely to say no to the meat fee. What was just a little strange about that proposal was that no one has suggested introducing a meat fee. It's an example that we get such an imaginary cultural war instead of real climate action and real disagreements about things that someone has suggested. That's a pretty funny way of running politics, especially for government parties. Is that what the government's new climate strategy is, to go against proposals that don't exist? And in that case, did you count on the emission effect of that?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e589	I realized that it was a rhetorical question, since we have made a big message – we have a big climate cure report, worked on all the measures that are actually the recipe. It's the most concrete thing ever put forward by some government to cut, because we're in the phase where action is necessary. So I disagree with saying that these are just words and actions. All I said is the real results of actions that we are implementing, which means that each investor has credibility, that they will receive help, support and framework conditions in the future. The main challenge for the SV in climate policy is that all that SV wants business to do is they won't be able to do if we take SV's business policy at the top. It's not like red numbers give better climate solutions. Increased tax burden and small investment resources in individual enterprises are not compensated for by the need to transfer more from other different types of aid schemes. On the contrary, the ability to solve the climate challenges, because job creation is climate-related, will be limited by the fact that the business policy of SV will actually make less investment dry.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e598	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e603	It is tempting to remind the government that they never manage to prove that government tax policy has that kind of positive effect on employment and business. But that debate will give us plenty of opportunity to press ahead with the elections. The sum of the government's climate policy looks dark. So there are only half-way measures to achieve the objective, and there is no attempt to pursue a more active business and industrial policy to speed up climate change, including in the quota sector. Let me mention one thing that is hardly affected in the climate communication. It's solar. Norway has enormous opportunities to invest in the sun. We can build a powerful photovoltaic industry, and we can pick up a lot of electricity from the sun. Nevertheless, the government parties are voting against a number of proposals that could ensure a more offensive focus on solar energy in Norway. Even if it looks dark, it should be possible to let in some sunlight. So my question is what's the reason why the government has so little to say about solar bets. When will the government see the light?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e613	I agree that solar energy is one of several forms of energy that are going to be important. Even in Bergen, solar energy is going to be a real bet for many. Very much focused on building is going to be solar energy, but it can also give net more energy into it. Then we don't choose each industry with our own actions. When we choose to use e.g. Enova as the main instrument, it's technology-neutral, it's effort-neutral. One is concerned about the impact on the climate of the measures it has. That means that we don't pick each industry and make our own policy, or each form of energy, and make our own policy. That's actually the sum -- using the best minds that's been working on this for a long time, and seeing what's like "breaker" new technology and giving us reductions in CO 2 emissions. In that form also solar energy will be. So I just want to say that I agree with the representative Lightbaking in that the voting over red meat can be hip as luck because it seems a little strange. I just want to say that it is sometimes also in debates that you are accused of being against something, but where you really agree with the representative who has proposed it. [[President clubs]] Then it's sometimes easiest to just vote for.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e625	The President reminds us that there are no separate speaking times for mountain people! They must stick to Storting's Rules of Procedure. Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e632	Perhaps the presidency should take a round on that, President! I just want to finish where I started, because what the Prime Minister is saying now, I think I'm actually discovering what's a major dividing line in climate policy right now. The Prime Minister sees the possibility within the sun, but wants the market to do the job. We just want an active state commitment, where we put strategies to trigger the potential that we see exists and that the market is not going to be able to do alone. I started by saying that any serious party must have a plan at this election to achieve the 2030 goal, and that that government has put forward, only takes us halfway to the goal. That is why there is an important question about whether the Right and Government parties are going to make something more before the elections, or whether what was voted on yesterday is the climate plan that Erna Solberg is going to vote on.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e641	We have our own programme work, so there may well be new actions in our programme work and with different fields of activity. We're going to have the country meeting in the middle of May, so we'll get back to that. So I have already said that the use of energy resources is closely linked to precisely the issues of climate change in industry and business in the ETS sector. Then there's a big message of its own related to the further development of what will affect many of the important technologies. We don't think the market will solve everything. We use a lot of rules, regulations and other things. We have orders and new phases that lie in this plan. We put new regulations in place in the future, and have fixed it on a date-by-date basis. We've made sure that we spend a lot of money on research and development to make sure that technologies are there, and we say that we should always strive for the best possible technology. So the fact that it's just the market: no, we're kind of heading into the market, but we're technology neutral in many ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e650	Åsmund Aukrust – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e655	What distinguishes the climate issue from all other political issues is that this is something we're going to be doing for very many years to come. There is no one size period or two size periods. This applies in all years to 2050. That's why what's been the most important requirement from, among other things. business, not exactly how we do it, but that they should have predictability, that they know that something goes beyond one majority period. When the government presented its climate report, the Prime Minister stood in the Questionnaire and said that she wanted to reach the broadest possible consensus, but that they should first start with the Progress Party, because it was their preferred partner in climate policy. What those discussions with the Progress Party led to, I do not know, because they hardly agreed on a single comment and not a single proposal. What we saw later was a government that was not willing to listen to anyone else either – not to the opposition, not to the climate-stripping young people, not to the industry, not to the farmers, not to the fishing industry. Yesterday the Stortinget sat for one hour and voted down 500 proposals. The government's batches all voted down, except for the one that no meat fee should be imposed. Why is the government not willing to change any of its policies? And does the Prime Minister think that there would have been an advantage to a wider expansion of climate policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e664	I agree that a broad consensus on climate policy would be fine. Our main challenge was that it would lower the ambitions of the government if we were to go into part of the proposals that, among other things, The working party has joined up. The assessment was also, and I really think that the red-green side of Norwegian policy should think about, that what was the advantage both in 2008 when we negotiated climate settlements, and in 2012 when we negotiated climate settlements, was that they – the opposition – sat down and agreed on what to demand, and set a common agenda for the government at the time. We haven't seen that now. We have seen a completely breaking agenda from the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party. They hardly agree on anything in this context — different ambitions, different actions. So what Norwegian policy really needs now is to know what the red-green side means about climate policy. It is those who create instability as to what framework conditions to have in the future for Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e669	Åsmund Aukrust – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e674	There the Prime Minister revealed that she has not read the climate situation that was dealt with in Stortinget yesterday. There were 150 proposals on which the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre were united – in addition to a number of other proposals that the parties had. Common to all of them was the need to have clearer objectives, more active industrial policies and more socially fair climate policies. In the past, reference has been made to how the Prime Minister in Norway is not so willing to listen to the opposition — in clear contrast to Mette Frederiksen in Denmark. We have seen the same thing in climate policy. Mette Frederiksen has achieved Europe's most ambitious climate goals because she has cooperated across the blocks. She's got business with her because she's started a partnership with the business community. It is part of what the Workers' Party wanted in Stortinget, but to which the government parties said no. What is the reason why the Prime Minister has said no to a committed partnership with the business community, which could provide large emissions cuts and create a lot of jobs in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e683	This government has worked closely with industry throughout the work on both climate communication and industrial policy in the future. When the process21 is presented, with many important drivers for industrial development and also for climate policy in the future, it is because it is done in cooperation with and after government missions – in order to provide a basis for it, for a good partnership around the road choices in the future and to identify where the challenges are coming from. In the follow-up to the climate committee that we set up in 2015, all business organisations in Norway have submitted road maps for their areas, and the way to do so has been worked out. This is a good basis for the work we have. We have a lot of cooperation on these issues. What is perhaps the most decisive instrument, namely the issue of the CO 2 tax in the future, is the area where the opposition splits most. The centre batch shall not have a CO 2 increment. The working party shall have a second phase of the CO 2 increase. And SV has a stronger CO 2 focus on paying the polluters.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e702	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e708	I want to open up with a big hurray to the government, to NBIM and the tangent, because last week we got our very first investment in renewable energy, in so-called unlisted infrastructure. Finally – I danced on the table of joy! Did the Prime Minister do the same? But it's a cut in joy. It follows from the State Pension Fund Act that the objective of the investments is to achieve the highest possible return, with an acceptable risk. This is an objective that is often promoted as an argument against allowing the fund to invest more in environmentally oriented shares and green infrastructure. But today, the fund cannot invest more than 120 billion. kr in environmentally related shares. The limitations on the Fund's ability to invest in these and unlisted infrastructure while allowing the Fund to invest in oil and gas help to reduce the Fund's returns. For now the speech of the numbers is clear: last year the fund had a negative return of 25 pst. oil and gas investments. At the same time, we had a positive return of over 34 pst. on environmental investments. In other words, environmental investment stood at 60 pst. higher returns than oil and gas investments. Also in 2019, fossil investment had the lowest return, at 13 p.m., while environmental investment had a return of over 35 p.m. I can continue – the figures show exactly the same for 2017 and 2018, i.e. four years with a significantly higher return than the fund's average over the last four years, but only a very small environmental share. So how does the prime minister think that continuing to limit the fund's ability to invest in environmentally related shares contributes to achieving the fund's objectives of maximum returns, when the option is to dance even more on the table over real green growth?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e715	I just want to be allowed to nuance what's said. There is no limit on the proportion of the fund that can enter into climate and environmental investments as long as there are convertible shares that can be invested in. It's important, because that's what makes you able to break loose, have less political risk, in these own projects, and you can speed up the breakup and use the money in other ways. Therefore, there is a precautionary rule on how much you can invest in property, how much you can invest in unlisted shares and other areas, because there should also be the possibility of getting out, there should be a possibility of a transaction in the shares you have. In this way, climate investment and climate action will become more common in ordinary share companies as well, and probably use the fund much more than the mandate, into companies that are part of the big green shift in the world. Then they're going to follow the profitability principle, and as long as it's profitable to invest in those types of shares, the fund will do the same. But I'm concerned that these main principles of profitability and if not too much risk are taken into account, for this is the money to ensure our children's future, that they do not fall under the pension obligations of their parents, and that we have money to face crises like the pandemic we're up to, even in future crises that will come. We have a generation perspective on this. That is why we are concerned that the fund should not be a political instrument, but it should be an instrument to ensure good returns. So I agree with the representative Stoknes that green investments may seem much more profitable in the future. Then it's quite natural that the fund is going to invest in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e722	The return over a long number of years now indicates that investments appear to have a very acceptable risk, unlike the oil and gas investments, which have suffered losses or have been significantly lower than the average of the portfolio. Both the EU, the United States and China are now accelerating the green shift and have set net zero emission targets for all three. This is the very largest part of the world economy, and it's a whole new situation in the world. The problem is that there are too few good projects under development. My question is: Will the government open up the pension fund to help finance new renewable infrastructure projects in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e729	We believe that we need to move forward step by step, precisely because we need security for these pension funds. So that money is going to be there for the possibilities of future generations, they're going to be there to be the buffer of our economy. We have a society with a pay as you go pension system, where it is not saved in funds, as is done in many other countries. For the post-employment benefit obligations, this is how we have to have it in order to be able to secure ourselves in the future. That means we can't take a big risk. Therefore, I believe that making major changes quickly to achieve other goals is wrong. We have to be within the range that we have to have low risk and contribute to high returns. Then you have to take those risk assessments when you go in, but not when you're political in order to take even greater risks in individual areas. It may be that the room is going to increase somewhat, you can evaluate it every year in the future, but we may also experience a setback. I hope that the setback does not mean that the next generation is losing money.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e736	There will be follow-up questions – first Per Espen Stoknes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e741	I am grateful and happy to hear that the Prime Minister sees that the risk of renewables is lower and that profitability is higher. Then I would like to stress that getting things Norway is doing can be as important to the world in the future as how we invest in the State pension fund abroad in the future. My question is then: Is the government ready to step up this considerably from today's message 120 billion. kr – the nice thing is that 120 bn. kr becomes a smaller and smaller share of the fund – with e.g. The 30-timer, i.e. 3 600 B.C.E. kr or approx. one third of the oil fund? Where should that be, as the oil fund grows in the years ahead? I'd like to hear if the Prime Minister is in a step up to a third.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e748	I think we should have a risk diversification for this fund. That means we don't have to have a fund that suddenly gets a significant decrease because one industry or one area has a setback. I think that is the responsibility we have in the future. It is clear that at the moment of much more profitability, many of the climate investments being made are likely to be made through companies that have full normal participation in the stock exchange. The fact that many more companies are involved, that infrastructure companies are placed there will be a natural part of the development. But this political governance and plucking of in a way one sector in a large monn can lead to a high degree of risk. This could mean that we have less money in the future for our next generations, and I think we have to do that gradually and gradually. It's actually been a little bit of the success model for the oil fund, that all the changes we've made in angles related to this are going step by step and step, we're trying to make sure that the cost of operating the fund doesn't get too high.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e755	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e760	Difference Norway is reinforced by the fact that hundreds of thousands have fallen in income, lost their jobs or had their life's work destroyed. At the same time, according to Capital, many billionaires have become even richer in 2020. Reopening may take some time. It's not just about phasing out infectious disease prevention measures, it's about doing it fairly. And the crisis has shown that the welfare state is our main emergency centre. So the repatriation of the economy must go hand in hand with a repatriation – and strengthening – of our welfare systems. Then we see from surveys that people who have low incomes also have far worse dental health than those who can afford better. Unemployment, disability and students are above average among those who have unmet needs for treatment. Before the pandemic showed the numbers of one of three delay the dental visit for financial reasons. Now we have over 200,000 unemployed, and we can assume that even more people can't afford it. When teeth are not treated as part of the body, the differences in society are expressed also in people's dental health. People who have bad advice can't meet their health needs, and they have to take the bill for this. Then, in 2018, Stortinget decided that the government had to strengthen Norwegian dental health and smooth the inequality here. This has been announced by the government to follow up in a prioritisation notice. It should have come last year, but as far as we know, nothing has happened. It's human to get holes in your teeth, but big holes in the welfare state we should be able to do something about it. When will the government's follow-up to the Storting's decision come, and how can it be defended that the teeth are not treated as part of our health care system today?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e771	In Norway, we have good dental health. We have better dental health than in many of the countries that have a greater public funding of dental health. That means our systems are working. That probably means that people's information about polishing their teeth when you're little, making sure you use fluorine and everything else, has given many good results. So we have a good dental health in general. The government has been busy protecting special users. One of the great grips of the then health minister Ansgar Gabrielsen, who returned to the civil government from 2001–2005, was to establish very low levels of dental care for drug users, on the basis of the principle that they must also be allowed to chew the food. So there's been targeted action on this. We still have as our main approach that we go in and help those who have the greatest challenges, those who have the greatest costs, so that's the government's priority. We have offered both psychological and dental care to people who have suffered torture and abuse. It has been strengthened, for example. in the budget for the current year. So we have an approach where maybe it's most important to help those who get the most expenses, and those who have very special reasons why they get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e778	Thanks for the answer. Speaking of chewing his food: We could read at NRK earlier this year about Nikolai, who was hit by an electric bike, so the jaw cracks and teeth were destroyed. He initially got covered with the jaw treatment, he got it, but not his teeth. So he lived on the potato nut and soup and was prepared to pay dearly for this. But Nikolai had accident insurance through work. Then he said the following: ‘It’s amazing to think that it may have been crucial for me that the accident happened on the way home from work.’ What is the logical, or perhaps medical, difference between jaw and teeth? And does Erna Solberg think that only those who can afford or have luck – as Nikolai had in a way – are going to have their teeth covered?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e791	We're also concerned that people with dental diseases and large dental expenses and other things are going to cover it. It's always good to have an extra insurance in life, whether it's private or through work, which means that when accidents and accidents occur and you get a lot of costs associated with it, you're insured. So we haven't found the room to give general dental care to everyone – but that might be the case – in our budgets. It doesn't have any other of the larger batches either – at any time. There are many who have had it as a proposal and talked about it in election campaigns, but I have found that over the years I have been a magnificent representative, there is, in the discussion about the dental health and the role of teeth in the body, no government has actually promoted proposals to make some profound changes in this. They have followed the same strategy as we do, look at the groups related to this more focused. Then I want to stress that we have good dental health. It could be that our way of organizing dental services also makes people prepare well for not getting holes in their teeth.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e800	It opens for follow-up questions – first Bears Moxnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e805	Fortunately, Red has come to the Stortinget, and we have a plan in our budgets to phase in free dental care for everyone. We do this, of course, by collecting some money from those who have more than enough per day – large wealth, large incomes. Then you can afford to expand the welfare state and introduce new reforms to ensure that everyone, regardless of income and what you have to travel with, can get a good dental health. According to the DNB, some people take up consumption loans to deal with unforeseen expenses, and there may also be – we know – large dental bills. When it is that some people who may have unhappiness, perhaps have bad advice, have to take up consumption loans to cover dental bills, does Prime Minister Solberg see that there is perhaps a major defect, or perhaps a gaping hole, in the welfare state that should also be sealed through political decisions and measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e812	It is important to work to ensure that people have a living income and that they actually have income to pay unforeseen expenses. It's part of the strategy that the government is using when we're working a lot to get more people included in the world of work. The largest difference in income in Norway is between those who are out of work and those who are in the labour market. If you are outside the labour market, you are much less likely to master unforeseen expenses. So there's room for social services to give help to those kinds of bills if you're in an economic situation where you need help for dental treatment and unforeseen expenses, but many won't be in the situation that they qualify for supplementary help or other. We must always discuss the extent of reform and what we can afford in terms of general treatment. But we believe that this direction, that those who have extra large costs of dental treatment, perhaps justified by illness or accident, should be a more correct and targeted way of improving dental health than general schemes, such as: one or two dental sessions per year are covered.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e819	With that, the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e833	There will be some changes to the configured question list. The changes were as follows: Question no. 7, from the representative Arne Nävra to the Minister for Climate and Environment, has been transferred to the Minister for Agriculture and Food to direct him. However, the question has to be postponed until the next Question Time when the Minister for Agriculture and Food has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e847	‘There has been an increase in the number of outpatient schools during this ageing period. The school year 2019–2020 closed entire 53 primary schools. The causes of school dropouts are complex. Lack of access to qualified teachers is one reason. The transition period for new skills requirements expires in 2025 and newly-trained teachers are a shortcoming and they have teaching skills in fewer subjects than the former general teachers. This is likely to lead to further centralisation. Is such centralisation of school provision comfortable by the Council of State?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e860	As the representative himself said, there are usually complex reasons why schools are laid down, and often low student numbers are the starting point. The figures published last year by the Education Directorate show that in the last ten years, the average school leaving had 69 students in the last year they were in service. Half of the schools had fewer than 40 students. Today, we have little knowledge that points to the lack of qualification of teachers alone as a cause of closure, although there may be one of several factors taken into account when assessing the school structure of municipalities. In municipalities' assessments, there are many considerations that need to be balanced against each other, including: the school's student base, the burden of a longer school route, the quality of training provision, the social community of pupils and the possibility of recruiting qualified teachers. Norway has become more centralised in recent years, and the trend is towards fewer and larger schools. Under the current government, however, there have been on average fewer school dropouts each year than in the previous years. Based on the principle of municipal autonomy, I think it should be up to the municipalities themselves to find good solutions to the school structure, to the best of the municipality's inhabitants. The most important thing to get a good school where students master and learn more is in any case teachers with solid skills. I believe it must be a goal for all students to meet a qualified teacher with professional depression. A particularly important contribution to improving training is therefore the great effort we have made to continuing training. Since 2014, we have offered some 40,000 teachers further training, and more and more people now meet the requirements for teaching in Norwegian, math and English. From participant studies, we know that the teachers who have taken on further education are satisfied and experience that they have a good return on education. They think they've become better at teaching, and that the students are learning more. One result of continuing training is that both the number and the proportion of teachers who lack adequate skills have declined for each year. Compared to 2015, we today have 12,000 fewer teachers who teach without meeting the competence requirements of the priority subjects English, mathematics, Norwegian, Norwegian and Sami. The decline continues, and many municipalities state that they have plans to reach the target in the autumn of 2025. But even though development is going the right way and the schools and municipalities are doing their job to achieve the goals, it's still a good job, and we have to keep up the pressure towards 2025. It is the local school owners who are responsible for teachers having the necessary skills. This year we're going to spend $1.6 billion. to provide teachers with further training. All applicants in the subjects of Norwegian, math and English, who receive the application approved by the school owner, will be offered further training. I will, of course, follow developments carefully and will assess whether action is necessary to ensure that the school owners meet the qualifications requirements by 2025. I would also like to point out that there are several state initiatives in place for initial training that have been recruited for the teaching profession as one of their objectives, including: the continuing training effort, the PPU scholarship scheme, the teacher-specialist scheme and the cancellation of student loans, in particular for GLU 1-7 and those taking up employment in North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e883	Thank you for your answer. Good schools in the local environment, with qualified teachers where people live, are of great value, and besides the professional, maintaining schools in many places is a matter of maintaining the countryside, the branch and the community. School structure is a theme of several places, e.g. in Ringing matters. The school structure is determined locally, rightly, but national policies set the framework and challenge the space for action of local democracy. The centre party is concerned about the impact of government policy on the possibility of maintaining secondary schools. The centre party doesn't think any students or parents are going to go to the municipality's or the country's largest primary school, but as the schools get bigger, this can be the school day for more students. Can the Council of State refer to professional evidence that large schools are of better quality than smaller, or does the Council of State see that secondary schools have qualities that it is important to maintain?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e892	There's no doubt that close school means a lot to a community, and I understand very well that a lot of people are fighting to keep high school, because it means something about what kind of life base you feel you have in a village. At the same time, I think what the representative is suggesting is that we might then need four little bit of our skills requirements to ensure that it is possible to run schools in each and every building, and I think that is also wrong. I believe that children who grow up in small places with small schools also have the right to have exactly the same expectations and exactly the same requirements for the training they are to be given. I myself grew up in a small village and went to a school with less than 100 students. I'm very happy that these are the same requirements for teachers who work at that school, as they are in large schools. I still believe that these are assessments you have to make locally. The government is doing what we can to set up and ensure that there are enough qualified teachers, and we're going to ensure qualified teachers for children in both town and town.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e899	The centre party feels that there is a lack of professional evidence to defend the centralisation of schools, and if there is a requirement to four, it is definitely a demand for competence with retroactive effect, because it just fails to recognise experience and previous education. The centre party wishes to develop and invest in preference to winding-up and closure. The coronary apathy has shown us how vulnerable we are where there is high infection pressure with many people gathered. Minor groups of people are the only solution to control the infection. It has also reminded us how important it is with good relations, how important the school is to the children. Learning is an important part of school life, but most importantly, social association with friends and classmates is of course. A secure everyday life is a prerequisite for learning and living. Does the Council see that there are many good things by having a decentralised school structure with several secondary schools, and that there is a point to bet on both small and large secondary schools throughout the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e906	It's really interesting this concept of primary school and what you put in it. I myself may live 20 meters away from the school I hope my children will go to. It's a secondary school for me – with 800 students, so it's a difficult school. It's quite right, as the representative says, that we don't really have any clear scientific evidence to say either one or another, neither that small schools do it better than big, or vice versa, that the big schools do it better. What we know is that small schools can often be quite vulnerable, precisely because you have a lot fewer employees, it gets fewer to play on, it gets much more vulnerable and much more up to the individual. But I want to keep in mind that it is important that the municipalities themselves are allowed to decide what kind of school structure they can have. In areas where the population structure changes, that is, when people move on, we actually have to make sure that welfare offers are where people live. So there's going to be a balance in each municipality about the importance of maintaining a smaller school for other reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e918	‘According to the Brønnøsund Registers, in former Asker and Bærum police districts there were 402 employees in 2015. At the Røken and Hurum Lensmannskontoret, which was then in the South-East police district, there were 37 employees in 2015. As of today there are 342 employees in Asker and Bærum, while there are no employees in Smoke and Hurum. Why is it, despite population growth and ambition, a presence, competent and effective near-police where the population lives, centralized away close to 1⁄4 of all police personnel from the municipalities of Asker and Bærum through the near-police reform?»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e925	Let me start by saying that the police of course not only do their job in an office. On the contrary, one of the objectives of police reform is to have a visible police force in the population. Therefore, it is a bit surprising that the Centre Party is constantly choosing to use the office address or meeting place as the starting point for the debate instead of discussing the job actually done. The municipality of Søken and Hurum chose to carry out a municipal merger and became part of the municipality of Asker on 1 January 2020. Therefore, there are no manning requirements for the smoking industry and Hurum for 2020. For 2015, on the other hand, the Police Directorate can inform us that the Røken and Hurum Länsmannskontor had 25 permanent employees, of whom 17 were police officers. At the merger on 1 January 2020, all police posts at the Røken and Hurum Lensmannskontor were transferred to Asker Police Station, located in the West Unit of Oslo Police District. In addition to these posts, the West Unit established separate sections for crime prevention and local investigation and a 24-hour patrol section in Asker. Our assessment is that it has resulted in a significant strengthening of the service in Asker, including Smoke and Hurum. According to the Police Directorate, in 2015 there were a total of 360 annual works, including 223 police officers and 19 prosecutors, in Asker and Bærum police districts. This includes everything from functions such as the Police Security Service, the Express Police, the Namsman and the Operation Centre to the police chief's administration, etc. Today, these services are covered by the PST and joint functions in the Oslo Police District. Several of these units also have staff in Asker and Bærum. The Directorate of Police reports that the West Unit today, i.e. in 2021, has approx. 390 employees, 320 of whom are police officers and 30 are prosecutors. They are in addition to the annual works I mentioned related to the common functions, which are very important to all residents throughout the district. The main emphasis of police officers is on patrol services, investigation and crime prevention. I therefore believe that this is not a cover to say that there has been a centralisation of police personnel away from Asker and Bærum. On the contrary, Asker and Bærum are well covered with patrol services, investigation and crime prevention, as well as through joint functions in the police district, which have been strengthened as a result of police reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e938	I thank you for the answer, but the reality description given by the Council of State describes a completely different reality than the people who live in Asker and Bærum, for example in Hurumland, experience. They do not feel that the changes that have been made have made to a more present police force. On the contrary, opening times have been reduced. The smoke and Hurum Länsmannskontoret are not open as of today, and what happens to it is still unsolved. In Asker, a municipality with almost 100,000 inhabitants, the police office is open two days a week from noon. From 09 a.m. to 09 a.m. 14th @item: inlistbox Those patrols who now serve Hurumland are told that we lack local knowledge. They come either from Sandvika or even from Stovner. One lacks the local presence that one had with the local policemen in the past, who knew their local environments. It's gone. People lose security, they lose their presence. How does the Council of State feel that it has helped to strengthen police services for people in Asker and Bærum?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e943	There were many opening hours here. The most important thing to ask is perhaps how it goes about preventing crime in Oslo police districts, and in the West Unit, and how it goes about fighting crime. As regards the claim of minor security, the investigations conducted by the Directorate of Police are not consistent. When the representative refers to the opening hours, it's worth noting that crime doesn't happen between hours. 09 a.m. and a.m. 14th @item: inlistbox It happens seven days a week, 24 hours a day. That's why it's so incredibly important that we have a police officer who's just been shot for crime that's happening independently of the police opening hours. It is no longer the case that you meet with the police to provide reports, for example. Much of that is now done online. Witness statements are taken up in a crime scene. So we have set up the police in a new, forward-looking way – with strong geographical units, with operating centres, with joint functions, which in all things also strengthen the police in Hurumland, which the representative asks for.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e952	What the police themselves writes on their websites is that if you are to provide a notification, whether it is violence, fraud, threats or data crime, it is to be done at personal presence. That's right, crime happens in the evening, it happens in the weekends. If it happens after 8:00 p.m. 14 a working day, and if it happens on the weekend, people in Asker and Bærum have to go to the police station in Greenland to deliver a police report. To strengthen the important areas: We just had a case in the VG that demonstrates a sadly negative trend in juvenile delinquency – 40 pst. increase in reports of violence among young people under 18 years of age. In Bærum they have one dedicated investigator for juvenile delinquency, in Asker they have none. In the Police Directorate, they have 15 communication staff. Does the Council of State think it is a right priority to ensure the security of people and a more present police force in Asker and Bærum?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e959	I am very pleased that we carried out the police reform. I'm very pleased that we've got stronger police districts, strong operating centres, strong joint functions. We now have preventive units in all police districts. We have analysis units and investigation units in all police districts. It is not linked to office addresses. This is about the job done to all residents in a district. Overall, there has been a historical commitment to police in Norway. You can't get away with the fact that it's strengthened with record people. There are 3,600 more people working in the police today than they did in 2013. We've strengthened the budgets by over 4 billion. kr. We've strengthened material, we've modernised the police, so the quality is quite different today from what it was a few years ago. I think that's important for residents in all parts of the country, whether you live in Asker or in Alta. You can't get past the fact that we have a completely different police force today than you had before. That's very good, because the crime scene today is completely different than it was before.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e969	‘I Prop. 92 L the Government proposes the following strict thresholds for drug supply: Heroin: 2 grams. [[2020-2021]] Cocaine: 2 grams. Amphetamine: 2 grams. Cannabis: 10 grams. According to Rustelefon.no, which is a public guidance service aimed at young people, the proposed thresholds correspond to 80 user doses of cocaine, approx. 20 user doses of amphetamine, 10 user doses of heroin and 50 user doses of cannabis. Does the State Council mean that drug phone.no specifies wrong user doses, as he gave the impression during the debate on the NRK?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e976	Yes, it is a recurring problem in the debate on drug reform that there is confusion about the proposed thresholds. The background appears to be a combination of the terms ‘user-dose’ and ‘drug-dose’. Rusdoze is an expression such as: used by the Institute for Public Health to indicate the amount of a psychoactive substance which, in its pure form, gives an impact equivalent to an alcohol pro-mille of 1.0 for an adult normal person. An unexpected user will need far more to get the drug’s drug effect. Street matter will rarely occur in pure form, but is often significantly mixed out. For example, amphetamines had been seized in 2020 at an average purity of 28 p.p. Thus, an intoxicating user can be much larger than a drug. If the threshold values of the drug reform are uncritically translated into drug doses, they will appear to be disproportionately high for that reason. The Russian phone does not always distinguish between drug doses and user doses in its mention of the different substances. The department has been in contact with section manager Sturla Naas Johansen at the RUStelefon. He cannot immediately identify where on their website the representative has retrieved his information from, and he is also unsure of how to count himself to the user doses specified by the representative. He does not, however, consider it unthinkable that someone has misunderstood, or has not come to understand that the RUS telephone sometimes refers to user doses in pure matter. Noise doses are an appropriate measure, e.g. with regard to drug-induced driving. However, it is neither meaningful nor appropriate to convert quantitative restrictions on the possession of drugs without penalty into either drug doses or user doses. The thresholds are only a practical tool for the police — on the ground — to distinguish between the issues of civil law response and the issues to be followed up in the criminal justice chain. To the extent that the RUS phone uses the term user box where they should actually use the drug box, it's a short answer to the representative's question: Yes, then they're wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e989	Last week I had a good meeting with a police officer and a police officer who worked on preventive work at Manglerud and Stovner police station respectively. They could tell that already, because of the new thresholds, it was more difficult to do police work. This week they had stopped someone who stood and smoked a joint, and said he could not stand here and smoke. He was wearing user doses equivalent to what was the threshold. They knew he was a dealer, and he said, "Yes, but this is now allowed." Is the Council of State Höie concerned that the police are now saying, with so many clear feedbacks, that it becomes more difficult to break down negotiations and action, and on the gangs? Does the Council of State Höie see that concern, or does he think that those who work operationally in their everyday lives in Oslo or elsewhere are wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e996	They've obviously been wrong here, because if the police had clear assumptions that this was a drive and a deal, it's not something in today's law or in the law that comes after a drug reform, which will prevent the police from reacting to that person in the way that you should do to people who sell drugs. It is important to get that information out to the police so that the police do not misunderstand what are the rules, or what are the rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e1001	Of course, the police are fully aware of what are the rules – we have a very skilled police force in Norway with skilled servants and officials, well trained. However, they refer to the fact that the thresholds are already being used in the street and that those who sell and trade drugs are making sure that those who trade are wearing those user doses and that the grey areas are becoming more difficult all the way. But until now in this reform, the Council of State Höie has not managed to defend Norwegian police almost once. In its opinion on this reform, Kripos said: ‘We perceive decriminalisation as an experiment with a highly uncertain outcome.’ The State Council’s own professional body, the Swedish Institute of Public Health, says in its opinion, repeated in a chronicle in the evening post, that there is insufficient scientific justification. Does the Council of State Höie disagree with the Institute of Public Health and Kripos, or does he agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e1008	The representative Schlagsvold Vedum has his own ability to reproduce the Institute of Public Health in such a way that he draws it far too far, and it has also provided the basis for the necessity of the article in the Evening Post to which the representative himself refers – which does not provide a basis for using the Institute of Public Health in the way the representative and the Central Party do. It is they — including the representative himself — who now claim and believe that Norway should continue to penalise drug use in the way we do today, which has the burden of proof, because the weight of evidence indicates that it has no positive effect, but on the contrary many negative effects. And when it comes to punishing people without it having a documented effect: they are the ones who want to keep doing it, who should find the scientific evidence to continue with something that has proved to be unworkable.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e1018	‘I refer to the answer to my written question no. 1277 on property tax for historic hotels, which I believe is in vain. Will the Council of State take the initiative to make the exemptions more known, so that several historic hotels can avoid paying property taxes?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e1025	I thank you for the question from the representative of Njåstad. This follow-up question has made me more familiar with the prevalence of municipal property tax in the districts, the extent to which buildings of historical value are exempted, and whether the districts differ from the cities. The property tax is the only local tax option for municipalities, which the representative knows well, and the law gives municipalities great freedom to design and adapt the property tax to local conditions. This also includes the possibility to exempt specified types of property, such as buildings of historical value. Since property tax is a municipal tax, exemptions should also be granted to municipalities. Therefore, it has been important for the government that municipalities that do not impose property taxes should not be penalised financially by the state either. The government, also with the Progress Party in recent years, has provided good municipal economy, so that municipalities can provide good services to citizens even without property taxes. We've done a great job. There are fewer municipalities than ever on the ROBEK list. The Property Tax Act allows municipalities to exempt both peaceful and other buildings from property tax. Of the 318 municipalities with property taxes in 2021, 219 municipalities report that they have taken decisions on such exemptions. This suggests that most municipalities are familiar with the possibilities of granting exemptions. This may include, inter alia: This is because there are actors who are actively making known the possibilities for exemption, inter alia. The Riksantikvar, who, for example, has encouraged municipalities to take advantage of the possibility of the Property Tax Act to exempt buildings of historical value. The survey also shows that district municipalities make use of exemptions to at least the same extent as urban municipalities. In fact, at central level 2, in the most central parts of the country outside the Oslo area, the possibility of exemption is being used at least. Municipalities such as Sarpsborg, Sandnes and Trondheim are among the cities with property taxes that state that they do not grant exemptions for buildings of historical value. So it doesn't seem to be a specific district-related issue. Initially, I do not see myself as a district minister that I am going to take the initiative to take concrete action against the district municipalities. The most important thing is to support the good work done by the Riksantikvaren to strengthen the framework conditions of hotels and other businesses in historic buildings, and, in particular, to make the scheme known to the representative. It helps the representative Njåstad by addressing this issue in Stortinget, which I think is fine.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e1040	I started by saying that I thought the answer to the written question was a little useless, and then I got to read about the exact same answer one more time. I don't get any easier because we have to distinguish between historical buildings like this in generality. I think there are a lot of municipalities that have given exemptions from historical buildings, but still charge property taxes on these historic hotels, which are not at peace, but which still have great historical value, which has great maintenance costs, and one in addition, as the Council of State knows, must pay property taxes because one owns these hotels. That's what's at the core, and if the council or the government had gone in and assessed how many municipalities have given such types of hotel exemptions, the answer would be something quite different than 219. Then the answer would be very few municipalities, because that scheme is not well known. That's where I don't have an engagement to make it known that an actually can make sure that Norwegian family-owned hotels can get rid of the property tax. Then you want to go over one more round and figure out how many municipalities have given them an exemption?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e1045	The government is concerned with municipal autonomy, and the municipalities themselves decide what the taxpayer should be, setting the framework for the exemption within the law. As I see it, the scheme is well known among the municipalities when we look at how many people are opening up this derogation, so it would also be useful to hear from the representative what actions he sees might have to be taken to make the scheme better known.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e1050	It is interesting that I get questions back, but I should like to answer them. Had I been a district minister, I would have been more busy with district hotels than with local self-government, to be completely united. I had gone high on the track and said that I encourage all municipalities to exempt these historic hotels, because they are important for District Norway, they are important for jobs, and they are important for history in the local cities. I had gone high on the track and made sure that it had been known and almost expected that one would have good tax and framework conditions for these hotels. They pay taxes on wealth, as I said, they have a disadvantage compared to the Swedish-owned and other foreign-owned hotels, and then they would have benefited from a district minister who called on them and who took the initiative, went out in the media and said that now they have to take a vow for these district hotels. It's my answer to the counterquestion, that I had been far more offensive. So the question is, is this a little inspiration for the district minister, maybe thinking more about district hotels and less about local self-government?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e1055	Now it is not Njåstad who is the district minister, so the councillor of Hofstad Helleland will be able to answer this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e1060	But I'm recording a great commitment to the historic hotels. I think that's very good, especially in the time we're in now, because now the entire Norwegian travel life, including the district travel life, has experienced a very difficult time, including the historic hotels. The number of municipalities exempted from historical buildings is increasing year by year, and it is up to the municipalities themselves. They're 100 pst. responsible for granting this exemption, and I believe it is wrong that I, as the Council of State, should intervene and go very far in suggesting that the municipalities have to make changes, precisely because of the respect for local self-government. That doesn't mean I don't pay tribute and want to support under and make this system known. I would like to believe that the hotels that want such an exemption, as business operators contact their municipality and make sure to look at the possibilities and see if the municipality wants to contribute to this. I record that there are 99 municipalities that do not choose to have an exemption, but I cannot ignore the fact that it will be possible if they are also presented with the situation that many of the historic hotels are in, and how you believe that this situation can be facilitated by getting this exemption.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e1072	My question to the Minister for Culture and Gender Equality is as follows: ‘The cultural sector has suffered severe loss of income during the year of the coronary artery. The government’s remedial measures have not been effective and sufficient during this period. The case-handling time of the Culture Council is a recurring theme. The same applies to replies to complaints for those who have not received support. The long duration of treatment is now dramatic for many, who have still not received a response after several months. When can we expect the Culture Council to be up-to-date with both applications and complaints, and how will the Council of State follow up this work?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e1081	The cultural sector is among the sectors most affected by the covid-19 crisis. There's no doubt about it. In order to help the cultural sector through the crisis, the government has set up a variety of support schemes to compensate for both losses and stimulate activity. The first cultural compensation scheme was established on 3 April last year. The scheme was largely continued by 2020 but has been amended and adjusted in different stages. The compensation mechanism for the first half of 2021 has just been consulted in the sector. The system must be approved by ESA before it can be implemented. The first incentive scheme for the cultural sector was established in October last year and this scheme has continued, with some adjustments, in the first half of 2021. Actors in the cultural sector who have not been taken by the compensation and incentive schemes have been assisted by incentives through the established instrument, including, inter alia,: Norwegian Cultural Council, Cultural Fund, Norwegian Film Institute and KORO. Ever since the pandemic hit Norway last March, I believe we have listened to the cultural sector, and we have adjusted and adapted the support schemes in order to help the sector the best possible way. I also believe that the aid schemes have been largely accurate and, in many cases, sufficient. The high application rates of the schemes reflect the certainty of performance. In the Ministry of Culture's budget for 2020 and 2021, 8.7 billion was allocated. kr to various corona support schemes for culture, volunteering and sport. The incentive and compensation schemes for the cultural sector are managed by the Norwegian Cultural Council. The Culture Council has so far received and dealt with more than 6000 applications for these schemes. This work has been, and is, very resource-intensive. The duration of the proceedings of the Culture Council depends on the complexity of the applications. For the compensation mechanism between May and August 2020, 1100 of the 1500 applications were completed on the same day as the scheme was approved by ESA. The remaining 300 applications, all of which were over 1 million. NOK, took a longer time to finish. The reason for this was that in the fall I asked the Swedish Culture Council to carry out a thorough check on all applications for the compensation scheme that was over 1 million. kr. Acquiring and reviewing additional documentation from applicants is time-consuming work. The additional checks were carried out to prevent abuse of the schemes and to ensure that applicants were paid compensation from the country on an incorrect basis. For the September compensation scheme, 250 of the 570 applications received were completed three days after the deadline for application, and this round is now close to completion. However, the decisions of the October-December compensation scheme are unfortunately delayed. This is due to a lack of clarity in the interpretation of the regulation, which has now been cleared up. The clarification will lead to higher compensation for many applicants. I think that's good. For the incentive scheme 2020, most applicants received responses within a few days, so it is not that the procedure has been long in all areas. The first decisions of the 2021 incentive scheme are already clear and published, and several decisions will come after the next deadline for application beyond spring. There is no doubt that the capacity of the Culture Council has been challenged during this crisis. At the same time, I believe that everyone has done their best to deal with the applications that have been made in the most thorough and timely manner possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e1104	Thanks for the answer. Many have waited over ten months for answers. It really appears quite clear that a good enough job has not been done to ensure sufficient capacity for the proceedings. I think that is critical given the critical economic situation of many in the cultural sector now, and their ability to plan their future and activities for 2021. On top of this, the Culture Council has now rejected more than half of the applicants for the incentive scheme for the first half of 2021, a scheme which was initially not searchable before 5 March, and which has suddenly changed criteria without the applicants being made aware of it. Many of those who have been rejected have already held their events because they thought the incentive scheme would be the way it was before Christmas. How long will it take for these people to complain about their case and get an answer to it? And can the Minister already assure them that they will receive a positive response to their complaint, since they have held events in good faith, as the Minister said no later than 19 January that it would be worthwhile to organise events rather than cancel?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e1115	Let me be the first to say that the situation we are in right now is a desperate situation for those cultural actors who are affected, who have been denied. I understand that very well. I know their frustration, and I understand that you want a solution in place immediately. For our part, we became aware of the final figures for this on Friday, which was last week, a few days ago. I've already said, on Monday, that we're working intensively trying to find a solution to this. What is important is that when we set the framework for this in the context of the state budget in December 2020, the infection situation was different. So the infection situation has changed and worsened, so that the number that can be at the events has changed. It's also made the economy of this different. I can assure the representative and President and Stortinget that we are working on this, and as soon as we have some good solutions to this, I will come back with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e1122	There have been very strong reactions to changes in the criteria of the incentive scheme after the application deadline, and to rejection even if the criteria are met. If the applicants had known that the scheme was to be based on such random discretion, they would not have chosen to travel on a tour, to withdraw the permit, to book subcontractors or to get the audience to buy tickets. Many people now cancel because they have lost faith in this scheme. This is largely about the fact that the minister himself has repeatedly called for activity and promised that he and the government will be setting up financially. Many who chose to believe it now bitterly regret it. In the media, the minister has probably also received headlines such as ‘A knife in the back of the Minister of Culture!’ and ‘The Minister of Culture has taken cultural life away’. And yet the compensation scheme for 2021 is not ready, even the money for the longest is granted from Stortinget. Is the Minister of Culture going to clean up this chaos, so that the cultural industry with all its jobs gets the money they're supposed to get, in time?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e1131	I just want to clear up a little misunderstanding, because I am a little uncertain about where the representative has it from that we have changed the criteria after the application portal was opened, and after you had applied. At least I'm not aware of that at this point, because you're laying out regulations, you're creating a system, and then you're applying for it. What has happened in this case is that the framework that we thought should follow the estimates we had has become smaller, simply because the infection situation has also changed. If we just looked back a little bit, it would be about 660 million. kr awarded in that incentive scheme before January. Everyone who fulfilled the conditions was given an undertaking, because it was set off considerably with funds. So the infection situation changed in January – I think everyone has got the mutated virus, changed rules, etc. I assure the representative that this I am working on bombing with, and as soon as we have some good solutions in place, I will come back with them. Right at this point, today – since this occurred on Friday – I do not have a solution, but we have clear ideas about what the solutions should be, and we are sitting and calculating this now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e1143	‘The cultural organisations are concerned that the new compensation scheme for cultural life is a restriction of the existing schemes and that artists and subcontractors will have to bear the risk of cancellation and loss of income. In addition, examples from the Ministry of Culture show that restrictions are proposed to make a subcontractor with 5 million. SEK in lost income is paid only 1,5 million. kroner in compensation. Will the Council of State listen to the cultural field and reconsider the restriction of the regime for a cultural field in crisis?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e1150	The cultural sector compensation scheme, which has just been consulted, has a device which in many areas is similar to the scheme in force in the last quarter of 2020. The scheme distinguishes slightly more between organisers and subcontractors than was the case in the past. The distinction has been made to make the best possible use of the entire sector. For subcontractors, the scheme has been set up mainly in the same way as in the last quarter of 2020. So we're not talking about any restriction compared to this compensation scheme before New Year's. I experience that this scheme mostly hit the sector well. For the organisers, the scheme has been amended in comparison with the last quarter of 2020. Organizers shall no longer be compensated for lost ticket revenue. Instead, compensation is granted based on the avoidable financial obligations of the organisers. There are several reasons for this. The most important thing is that there is now a better interconnection between the incentive system and the compensation system, and we avoid the cost of cancelling rather than implementing it. In addition, coordination will facilitate the sector's approach to the schemes and facilitate the process, not least in the Council of Culture. The Government wants as many events as possible to be organised where they can be implemented and the change in the compensation scheme for organisers facilitates this. Nor is it such that the scheme merely involves restrictions compared to the 2020 scheme. For example, organisers can now apply for the compensation scheme on the basis of scaled-down events, not just cancelled events. It reduces the risk by implementing the events significantly. I therefore do not agree that organisers must bear a disproportionate risk by planning and implementing covid-friendly events. But as I also think the representative will recognize, there is always a certain risk associated with organizing cultural events, even in normal times. Of course, I will continue to listen to the cultural sector. The Ministry of Culture has now received a number of consultations, the consultation deadline expired just before the weekend. We're now working on those recordings. We're going to go over the recordings that have been made at the hearing, and of course all the recordings will be carefully evaluated by the ministry and the government. Let me stress that if it turns out that the compensation scheme would not be successful enough, we have so far taken the necessary steps to adjust the scheme, so that we can ensure that this sector can get through this pandemic, and that we have a cultural sector to find great joy in, both personally, as participants, and as an industry and important cultural carrier in Norway, even after the pandemic.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e1167	I thank you for your answer. In the proposal at the hearing, the organisers are condemned to go negative, as it stands. Only 95 pst should be given. compensation for avoidable costs incurred by the Council of State. There's a much smaller basis than before. A maximum compensation of 3,5 million is also introduced. kr for the entire period. It will be further affected. In addition, compensation does not come until now, in April, and the incentives have only recently arrived, half way out in the period of compensation. Combined with the restrictions, many festivals and organizers are quite clear that they are at risk of going on big bangs this six months. So my question is again whether the Council of State will remove these restrictions, why are the arrangements coming so late, and not least: When will the government learn to set up schemes that last as long as there are infectious diseases restrictions? In a hurry, cultural life remains in the same situation, when these arrangements expire in the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e1176	Not only I, but also the Minister of Finance and other members of the Government have communicated on a number of occasions that as long as we have coronary restraints, we will also set up different arrangements. Then it's unclear what kind of device different arrangements should have, because it's based on the infection situation. It's right, as the representative says, that we have arrangements now. In the first instance, the government has outlined arrangements until August. So we've said that in the case of July and August, the final calculation is not ready. As the Prime Minister explained last Wednesday in Stortinget, we come up with a plan also for the summer, early in May. It's in this context that we also want to know what the number limit will be for the summer, and based on the number that will apply, you could also have the exact numbers. But we have set up some funds for the two months to create some predictability. And to the main question: I want to listen, of course, to the recordings that have come in writing, and we're going to go through this thoroughly and see what is possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e1185	I thank you again for the answer. Last October, the Minister of Culture said at a press conference: "I as Minister of Culture, we as Government, we want you not to cancel." On 19 January of this year he followed up and said, "It will be worthwhile to organise events rather than cancel." Today, many organizers, artists and subcontractors who listened to the Minister of Culture, proud of the Minister of Culture, say that they feel stabbed in the back. NEMAA says, among other things: in an e-mail that has arrived at the Committee, that they feel betrayed and deceived. Before Christmas, all the applications that met the criteria received the money, but not now. Around half of the applications for the incentive scheme have been rejected, amounting to about 300 million. kr, also for events that have already been organised. That's why I ask what the Council of State's message is to those cultural organizers who are now left with the bill and may have to give up because they listened to what the Minister of Culture said, but now feel cheated.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e1194	The representative is quite right that last year there were enough funds in the scheme, so that everyone who met the conditions for it was given a commitment, and it was not shortened because there was little money in the scheme. Then I have said that when we made the arrangements and arrangements for this in connection with the state budget last year, the infection situation was somewhat different from what it turned out to be after the mutated virus arose. You've scaled down the number limit from 200 to 100, and also down to zero in some cases. This means that the pressure on the system has been different. It is true that the representative is concerned that approx. half of the applicants have been rejected. I have already said, even to the previous question, that we are working on bombs in my department, we have been doing that since Friday. The numbers were also done for us only on Friday, there have not been many days. I can assure the representative that both I and the government are working on this, and once we have done calculations and the different solutions are possible to communicate, we will come back to this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e1210	This issue has been transferred to the Minister of Agriculture and Food as appropriate, but has been postponed to the next Question Time, when the Minister of Agriculture and Food has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e1215	That being the case, it is no. 2, regular question time, end.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-14.ana.ud334e1229	There is no record available. Thus, the map for today is finished. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - Then nothing has happened, and the meeting has been cancelled.
