ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e64	For the sake of infection prevention, the President will propose that the public gallery be closed even during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representatives Jonny Finstad and Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e79	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Council this week, and considers it to be adopted. The President will propose Svein Harberg. – Other proposals are not available, and Svein Harberg is unanimously elected president of this week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e92	The representative of Mona Fagerås will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e97	I would like, on behalf of the representatives of the big business Karin Andersen, Torgeira Knag Fylkesnes, Freddy André Øvstegård, Lars Haltbrecken, Nicholas Wilkinson and myself to present a proposal for a representative to cancel the centrally awarded exam in the spring of 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e102	The representative, Arne Nävra, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e107	I am delighted to make proposals on behalf of the representatives of Nicholas Wilkinson, Freddy André Øvstegård, Karin Andersen, Lars Haltbrecken and myself to develop a KVU for the new Oslo–Stockholm railway and to develop new state funding models for railway development in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e113	The representative of Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e118	On behalf of the representatives of Sandra Borch, Ole André Myhrvold, Willfred Nordlund, Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen and myself, I am delighted to present proposals for less use and casting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e123	It was the one hundred proposals made by representatives in this session. There is still no premium! The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters are dealt with today, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e145	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e152	As the rapporteur, I would like to begin by thanking the Committee for the work on the proposal for a representative to strengthen the law in order to ensure Norwegian ownership of the forest. Strict concession laws for agricultural property, forestry property, hydropower, etc. have long and strong traditions in Norway. In the Left we are proud of our own history, where Gunnar Knudsen and Johan Castberg were among the foremost champions of strong concession laws in the early 1900s. The fact that natural resources should be a common asset, that not too much power should be collected on few hands, and that Norwegian nature should be mainly owned by the Nordics, are principles that remain strong today. For the Left, the distribution of power, the principle of common good and Norwegian ownership of Norwegian nature are important in order to ensure future generations the same access to nature as previous generations have had. The freedom of free movement in nature and opportunities for the individual are important principles that we stand by, today as 100 years ago. Fortunately, Norwegian and personal ownership of agricultural property remains the main rule in Norway. This applies to both agricultural and forestry properties. Of the rural agricultural properties we have in Norway, only 0.8 pst. owned by a holding company, such as the property of Namdalen that was sold to the German company LAM. The rest is owned by state, region, municipality and private individuals. People live on 80 p.m. of all the properties. It shows that agricultural property is an important driver of employment and housing in rural areas throughout the country, and that should be the case. A total increase was made in 2003 to the proposal that the acquisition of shares or limited liability companies were unnecessary. It was stated that some properties, such as the property in Namdalen, were of considerable size, but the Stortinget chose to change the law, also with that knowledge in mind, because there were few companies. I would like to see that the property in Namdalen could not be freely transferred to LAM, as it is today, but a unanimous increase opened up for it in 2003. The background for the change was, among other things, Norway’s relationship with the EEA, where the free movement of capital is a guiding principle. It is important for me to stress that the sale of forest property in Namdalen could also be done with a red-green as a blue-green government, because the rules have been the same since 2003, and the proposers also voted in favour of the changes in the law. It is also true that for eight years the central party proposers had the Minister of Agriculture in a majority government, without taking any action to change this. It is also important to include and stress that fortunately few properties of this size can be traded freely. There are strict rules that the AS can get concessions, and there are many cases in which concessions for an AS are applied for. I have noticed that the Workers' Party, the Centre's Party and SV in their comments on this matter claim that the Solberg Government has made several proposals that attack the concession law several times. It is important for me to stress that there is a difference between a government made up of the Progress Party and the Right, which stands for a more liberal approach to the concession law, and one consisting of the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Right. The Left and Christian People's Party has helped to stop several of the proposed changes in the Storting, and we are the followers of a strong and good concession system – the tradition of belief, for it has fought since the concession laws of the early 1900s.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e169	We have a lot to be proud of as our democracy has done on behalf of ordinary peoples and families. In Norway, we have a great deal of pride in how we have managed our natural resources for the benefit of the people from the north to the south, and in creating jobs and hope for the future. It's part of what we've managed to create together democratically to rig a strong welfare state. Unfortunately, our forest is under pressure for privatisation. It is interesting to hear the case rapporteur and the spokesman from the Left, who admits that the cooperation partners Right and the Advance Party are in charge of a liberal economic policy in this crucial area of our country. That's why we have the debate today, because a large part of the land area in Trøndelag has been sold to German buyers. What's important to bring with it when we debate this matter is that you can claim that there are few properties involved, but a property of 600,000 dean is such a big part of our country that it itself has great consequences, even if it's just one property. Therefore, the Storting must take this matter very seriously, and we obviously need reinforcements of politics and the law. When we hear the case rapporteur, it sounds as if he agrees that we need improvements, but his party is basked and bound by the Right in government, so there's nothing to pick up. What's needed is a new growth rate. Then we're going to ensure that we have democratic control of prices, which ensures that ownership can be divided into several hands, and that large-scale capital does not enter and take over an increasingly large part of our natural resources. In the current economic crisis in Norway, and the international economic uncertainty, we will be able to see more purchases of the type made by German buyers in Trøndelag, for the crown price is weak, and investing in real estate for an uncertain period is very lucrative. It is therefore urgent to make improvements in this field, and it is alarming that the right-wing parties together are in the process of voting down completely necessary and grass-root-oriented proposals from a whole red-green side. These are the proposals, of which the Workers' Party is part, which I am addressing now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e182	The representative of Nils Kristen Sandrøen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e187	Norway is a good country to live in. Norway is a country with small differences. Norway is a country where trust between people is high. One of the reasons we've historically had a spread of ownership. Most people have property. It also applies to ownership of land and forest – it has spread on many hands. We have had limitations in private ownership, precisely to ensure social development and to spread ownership. There is also today a political plurality for ownership of land and forests of a certain size not to be freely transferable but to require concession. The question we're dealing with today, actually, applies if we think it should apply regardless of how well to organise ownership. There may be reasons to own forest via an AS, but there are no reasons to exempt forest and forest hall from control because it is sold as part of a limited liability company. When one listens to the case spokesman, a little bit of an impression that this is a question that everyone is a few about, but then it is important to draw out what Trond Helleland, the parliamentary leader in the right, said in the debate on the throne on 5 October. He said, ‘But in terms of forest management and forest property management – which is where they are – I’m not so much afraid or think it has so much to say if it’s Norwegian or foreign owners.’ So the logic of the Right is that because you can't move it out of the country, it's not that dangerous – it doesn't have much to say if it's Norwegian or foreign owners. Yes, that principle can be applied to the forest, to our hydropower, to our fish, and to our soil. It shows that there are political differences here, and that is what they are about today. The Government Party and the Advance Party are very busy with the time when Bondevik was Prime Minister in Norway, and so are they in this setting. To this it is said that when we in the Centerpartie assess the concession law, we do not assume what the world looked like in 2003. We're starting from the political challenges that are in 2021, and I think the rest of the Storting should do as well. Then a question should be asked: does there have anything to say if there are Norwegian or foreign owners of the forest, and should it be free to sell the forest abroad because he is in a limited partnership? That is what is at issue today, and the Central Party is quite clear in its conclusion and in its proposals: the concession law should also apply in these cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e203	I think the Norwegian biological resources are going to be very decisive for the future of Norway, when one is going to replace what are input factors in batteries, in industrial processes, etc. with renewable, resilient resources. The bio-resources will be even more topical. We know that there is a project to develop a bio-based battery based on lignin from Norwegian forest. The like has rental properties and can be used in theory in a battery. Think about what can happen if, instead of taking it out of mines – which are not renewable resources, and which will of course end at some point – you can replace the entire industrialisation with efforts on bioresources. Thus, bioresources become fundamental for the future — perhaps not in 10 years, but in 20 years, 30 years, 40 years. That's what we're dealing with today: ownership. We know that there is a considerable interest around the world in acquiring access to land and forests, just for strategic, long-term reasons. The Chinese have always had a hundred-year perspective in what they're doing, and here, too, we see how they organize their policy internationally with establishing ownership, whether it's in Canada or in Africa, etc. There are largely strategic reasons for this, but bioresources are fundamental. We have to impregnate ourselves against foreign raids of Norwegian land and important Norwegian values, because we know that there is the power of the seventh and last comes to lie – it's going to lie in ownership. This discussion about forest is something we know well about. We had a round of constitutional proposals last year. Every four years there will be a new discussion about removing the odels. Right-hand side – with Left, which is now on the opposite side than what they were early in the 1900s, when Left was another type of party – points out that we have strict rules in the concession law. But what we are proposing here is the liberalisation of concession law, that it should be more translatable. The Odel Act was designed to spread power and secure ownership of land resources. The concession law has a lot of the same arrangements, but when a softens this, it opens up a completely different way of thinking. This is a classic debate we're now moving into as big, but I believe the debate has more topicality now, because it's about something as decisive as what is going to be the input into the future way of organizing industry and industry in Norway. It is a great loss to believe that liberalist models and capitalism should only organize this for us. That's not the world. She's never been like that. She'll never be like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e214	The forest and our land are an important resource – for each landowner, for the industry and for us as a society. We want forests and land to be as personal as possible and not owned by a limited liability company. In order to achieve this, the concession law is absolutely essential. That's why it was important for the Christian People's Party when we went into the government to get confirmation on the Granavolden platform that there would be no further liberalisation in soil and concession law. Local personal ownership of land, forest and land is the main rule in Norway, especially for traditional agricultural land and forest properties. The figures clearly show that municipalities have been restrictive in granting concessions to limited liability companies. That's good, and so should it continue to be. I trust that the municipalities will continue to contribute to a personal ownership structure. The concession law was adopted, as several have said here, in 2003 by a broad majority in this Chamber, including from the red-green parties. The concession obligation was then removed by the purchase of shares in companies that own agricultural property. So this is not a rule that this government has put in place, it has been like this for many years, even in the eight years before 2013 when the Senter party was in the agricultural minister's chair. The room for action to impose the concession obligation on the purchase of shares is limited, as I now assess the case. The instruments we have in today's law, at the same time, contribute to the fact that there are few limited liability companies that become owners of agricultural property. We have rules in the law on agriculture and forestry that act as the operation of the properties. These rules are central to ensuring the production, employment and raw materials of the industry and apply independently of ownership. It is the municipalities that decide matters under the concession law, the soil law and the forestry law. In the spring, I want to send out updated circulars to the municipalities on the practice of the law of the land and the law of the concession. In these up-to-date circulars, I intend to clarify how practices should be put in place for agriculture's own degradation and soil protection purposes, but also on issues relating to the concession of limited liability companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e225	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e230	Sometimes I have to say I am a little surprised at the debate in this Chamber, because it is claimed that one agrees with the goal, but nevertheless disagrees with making legal improvements. It refers to times when Lars Sponheim was Minister of Agriculture, but if we're going to rule a country, it's kind of not just to lie down many, many years back in time, we have to think about what's need here and now. Then we clearly see that here is a hole in the law, and some of the holes are deliberately created by the Right Party and the Advance Party of Government, among others. by removing the concession for clean forest properties, as is price control. Is it not a little time for the Minister of Agriculture to attend a progressive and forward-looking assembly here in Stortinget and adopt some improvements instead of talking about the time of former Minister of Agriculture Lars Sponheim?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e235	Firstly, I would like to remind the representative that I am not talking about Lars Sponheim's time; I am actually talking about the time when the representative's own party was in government. The center party, which was their co-player, also put in the government and had the opportunity to change this if they wanted to. So to the question of what the representative really thinks is a loophole for limited liability companies: I notice that there is an experience that the dirt hole is very, very large. I would like to say that the number of limited liability companies that own properties of the size we are talking about, for example. the forest property in Namdal is similar to that in 2010. It is also true that of the number of forest properties with a productive forest area of more than 1000 dekar there are 0.2 pst. owned as limited liability companies, the other are owned by private operators and personal owners.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e243	This is probably not an experience of a loophole, it's a hole that German buyers have used for themselves. It's a fact, so there's no question of contention. If we were to steer politics this way and just refer to what happened far back, it would probably have been a very weak reconstruction of the country after the war, we had never had any popular fear, and we couldn't possibly imagine the progressive management of our properties that we have today in the North Sea, and in the same way of the hydropower. Those advances have been made because people have the courage to look at what is needed in time, and you make wise choices after that. We must, of course, also do that on behalf of such an important Community resource as our forest is. As the representative Knag Fylkesnes was in, this is just becoming an increasingly topical theme because of the values that the forest will represent in the years to come. Does the Minister of Agriculture not think that there is a need for legal improvements?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e254	If I had seen a big slide out of who owns, and the stock companies that exist – but we don't do that in numbers, they're equal since 2010. At the same time, I want to say that the municipalities are also doing a crazy good job, because they are the ones who manage it to grant concession. What's bothered me the most about areas and forests, is that there's been a lot of land tied up because it's been years before you've settled dead. We did something about that last year because it's also area that's important for business, for activity and for productivity. There I have made changes, but in what is now, we also have a duty to do this job properly. If it had been an easy way to do this, I think the government before we did the job, but here's a lot of complicated questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e261	The right parliamentary leader believes, on behalf of the largest government party, that it doesn't matter who owns the forest, because it stays where it is – according to Greece. That's what's historically completely wrong, because if we were to run the same line, the Right would in their time, when they fought for French and German buyers to take over our feet, said it didn't matter, because the foxes remained wherever they were. Our oil fields would also be lying where they were, even though Carl I. Hagen had a majority in the Storting to let large American groups take over them. Does the Minister of Agriculture see that the Right is on the road on these issues of our natural resources – and in proposals for the Right Party Programme, where liberalisation is proposed precisely in concession laws?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e268	When we went into cooperation with this government, with the Right and Left, no liberalisation of the concession laws was an important point in the Granavolden platform. It itself tells something about where I am as Minister of Agriculture, and where the Christian People's Party stands. Having said that, although I am too much personal ownership in Norway, I would like to raise my eyes a little bit and say that it is not a desired situation that most foreigners should own in Norway, but we must also think about this in the opposite direction for our citizens. Would that mean that we cannot own a torpedoes with forest property in Sweden – if others were to take advantage of the same opportunity as the Workers' Party now shows?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e273	I would first like to thank the Council of State for actually making contributions to the debate, as opposed to the Right, the Advancement Party and the Christian People's Party, which excels in their absence. I would like to ask questions to hear a little about what is the Council of State's view of the matter we are discussing today. Does the Council of State agree with the Right that it does not mean so much whether there are Norwegian or foreign owners of the forest, or does the Council of State agree with the Centre in that it is an objective to have the most possible Norwegian ownership of the Norwegian forest? In the debate it has been referred to in 2003 and 2013, and now we are in 2021. If the Council of State agrees with the Central Party that there is a need to do something, I understand that 2021 is too early, but what time is it possible to improve the policy in place in 2003 and 2013?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e282	I replied to the previous representative in the reply that I believe and stand for the fact that we want the highest possible Norwegian ownership. That's what I answered him, and that's what I'm going to answer to the representative, Pollestad. At the same time, I believe that the law and the regulations we have are capable of ensuring that as much as possible. When 0.2 pst. I believe that the productive forest area is owned by limited liability companies – everything else has to be subject to concession treatment – that it is stable and has done so in recent years. That's why I don't see any reason to change what works now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e287	The red-green government did something. When the Borregaard forest was sold in 2010, the red-green government ensured that it was not sold abroad, but that it was purchased by State forest and partly distributed to private, small forest owners in Norway. That's the way you can do it if you want to secure Norwegian ownership and Norwegian interests. Now this government has allowed 590,000 targets of the forest in Namdalen to go to German interests. Then a new investor, from Oslo, just bought up new 70,000 targets in Namdalen and got it converted into a corporation because it's going to be more valuable and marketable. What will the Council of State do if the 70,000 targets are sold to Russian, Chinese or German interests?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e294	I have sometimes said that I would like to see that the forest in Namdalen had gone to Norwegian owners. Point 2: State forest made a thorough assessment of both the value and use of the property and, if the Storting approved it, also received a back cover to buy, but then had to take an assessment based on the value of what was to be purchased. Unfortunately, one did not achieve the same result as the red-green government did with Borregaard. We used the exact same rule, we used the exact same lawyer, we did the exact same thing, but the result was different. State forest was in, but did not see the same value as those that the bid eventually did.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e299	But my question was, what does the Council of State do next time it's about a sale to foreign interests? What does the Council of State do if the Oslo investor who has now bought up 70 000 targets in Namdalen – and has been converted into a limited liability company because it is intended to be marketable – chooses to sell to Russian, Chinese or German interests, when the Council of State so categorically rejects an opportunity to actually impose the concession obligation on AS? What will the Council of State do?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e304	First of all, an investor from Oslo who invests in a forest in Namdalen, I will at first not suspect that I have a thought that this place should go to owners from abroad. In fact, the investor must answer for that in case. In the case of the other, I want to deal with the law that is in place. And so will we, as far as possible, let Statskog join the bidding rounds that apply, but initially I will deal with the law that is now in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e311	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e319	This is a very interesting debate. It's interesting if the Right and Advance Party's starting point here is that because the forest is located there, it doesn't matter very much whether it's Norwegian or German owners – or Chinese owners, for that matter. That's interesting because, as the representative Pollestad said, if one had founded it on all the Norwegian natural resources, we would have had an incredibly big challenge. Then we would not have been able to develop the hydropower in the way we have done in this country. And that's what this is really about: how are we going to develop our natural resources in the years to come if we can't put a framework around them? So you're hiding behind the fact that this was adopted in 2003, and that we agreed to adopt it, and that's why we can't do anything, so it's actually almost premature for us to take up the question again. But it is clear that the issue is being updated, and it must be possible to re-examine and re-evaluate the question of whether it should also be the concession obligation for an AS. I fully agree that AS is a very small part of Norwegian forest properties. But they make up an important part, because they make up a few very large forest properties, which are just of interest to foreign owners. It is quite remarkable that the bulk of the population is not willing to attend and consider a change in the concession law at that point. I do not know what has happened internally in the government now, but I know very well what happened in 2010, when the Borregaard forest was sold, and it was not such that a just let Statskog join in on a race – one was a driving force to ensure that that forest was not sold abroad. But now 590,000 targets are sold right out of the country I'm from, and it's important whether it's Norwegian or foreign owners. It also provides an opportunity for new investors to think the same way, think in the same paths, and that's probably what happened when an investor just bought up 70,000 new targets in Namdalen and was threatened to remodel part of the properties and reassemble them so that they became an AS, so that they would be easier to translate in the next round. This development is not very good with either our view of the management of natural resources or the ownership of many hands. I have to say that I find it sad to see that there is no more reflection on it in the parties, even in the Christian People's Party. The Christian People's Party also changes between saying that the concession law is important, and at the same time saying that we also want to buy abroad. What is the logic of that kind of thinking? If the concession law is important, it is important because of Norwegian ownership, and Norwegian ownership is exposed and threatened because of these purchases. I think it is quite remarkable that the majority of the government parties do not even participate in today's debate, either the Right Party or the Christian People's Party – nor the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e330	Actually, this matter should be very simple, for the three proposals promoted by, among others. The centre party, it should be easy to join, if one initially believes that the forest should be owned locally and by Norwegian actors. Then you should just join it. One should return to the Stortinget with amendments to the concession law that just supported what the proposal is all about. It is quite incredible to hear that the right parties are opposed to that proposal – completely incomprehensible – especially as long as the Minister of Agriculture says that she would like to see this forest taken over by Norwegian owners. She would like to see it taken over by Norwegian owners, President! Then you have to do something about it. It is then necessary to ensure that the openings in the law are sealed and that, in principle, what appears to be the views of the Minister of Agriculture should be safeguarded by the law she administers. She wouldn't. It's completely incomprehensible. It should be relatively easy to do that. There's nothing big -- let's say -- using this opening now, but what about five years, what about ten years? What about today's government's attitude to other natural resources in preserving the most of this in Norwegian hands, to Norwegian value creation, to support Norwegian jobs? Is the will ever present? Where are the limits of this going? We have no idea about today's government. Selling large forest properties to large foreign players with perhaps very different interests than local forest owners or local environments – given the potential for value creation – testifies that it is parked. The government doesn't care. The government only believes that the general rule is that it is subject to the concession rules and that they have not seen a great glare. But this is the beginning of large foreign companies wanting to buy large forest properties in Norway. We don't know anything about the continuation, but if you don't want it to continue, you have to close the law. And then it can't be very difficult for the government to review this and present a bill to the Stortinget, unless you're basically forced not to be for it. And that's what the Minister of Agriculture seems to be expressing. She is forced to kneel and has one opinion that goes beyond what the government tells her to do. If what the Minister of Agriculture said had been followed up, the Minister of Agriculture would have returned to Stortinget with a change in the concession law that would take care of Norwegian interests, Norwegian jobs and Norwegian forest industry. But it doesn't happen, and it's a little awkward to look at how a single party in this case is suppressed by another majority in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e337	It's interesting to get a part of what the Workers' Party in particular says, because in the case of this Namdals property transferred to Lukas Stiftung, so-called LAM, it was the Nams Forest that was the concession provider at the time. The working party was clearly in power in Namskogan. It may seem that this is not well informed for the representatives of the Workers' Party. The figures for the number of properties owned by AS from 2010 to 2019 are stable – completely stable. It is not the drama that not least the representative of Aasland and the representative of Sandtrøen are trying to paint a picture but are not matching the terrain. I agree with the Minister of Agriculture: Yes, I want Norwegian ownership in general, but there are some challenges that we also need to address in this Chamber regarding Norwegian ownership around. Obviously, it is quite unproblematic for many in the opposition. We agree that framework conditions are important in this, and we also want the natural resources to be mainly on Norwegian hands. There can be no doubt about it, even though some people are trying to doubt whether the Minister of Agriculture actually responds in a row. When the representative Sandtrøen points out that the law of nodel gives widespread ownership, some might think that it might be the opposite in some contexts. Anyway, in this case we also have to remember the story: the concessionaire of the property that we have mentioned many, many times today, was an Arbeiderparti-steered municipality, Namskogan, and before that SV-steered. It has been socialist driven as long as I can remember, with a little exception in recent times. There's a little bit of the history behind this. So you can take with you, as a previous speaker was saying, that you really want this to be owned locally. Yeah, who doesn't, but who's going to raise capital to buy 600,000 dean? Shouldn't that give a simplification too? In addition, there is no doubt that the rooms have not set up and gone by train so that there should not be a new change of ownership. They have been satisfied with that ownership – if one then manages to read the local newspapers. But there must be no doubt that I mainly want Norwegian ownership of both forest and hydropower resources, and so does the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e354	This is a very important matter. Who is it that owns the agricultural property? This means who owns land in Norway. I'm very much in favour of the setting. Why am I? Yes, because it is a platform, at a possible new government change, from the Senterpartiet, the Arbeiderpartiet and SV, and I expect the Red Party and the Green Party to support it. That is a good basis to continue working on. It is not incomprehensible that the Right disagrees. The right has kept its path clean all along; they have systematically opposed such limitations in private ownership. For them, it's exactly who owns, whether it's individuals or companies, in Norway or abroad, it doesn't matter. Here we have one of the big political dividing lines between the Right and the Center Party. The party of progress has more trouble with the legs they're going to be on. They don't like the concession law, but they don't like Chinese or Russians or Germans buying up Norway, so they have problems. But liberalism is the strongest, and they then promote proposals according to the Right. The proposals are necessary and correct: strengthening local Norwegian ownership, obtaining concessions in the sale of shares in limited liability companies and price controls on pure forest properties. This is absolutely necessary. It was wrong that there was a waiver from the concession for the sale of shares in limited liability companies in 2003, and that the central party was involved, at least that is my particular opinion. It should never have been done. Here we have to close the holes, because we're in a new situation. And what situation are we in? Well, in troubled economic times, it becomes more interesting to invest in real estate. It's not going to be real estate anymore. There are more people who have money to invest. The interest will be greater, and there will then be an investment object, not an object for forestry. That's what's at the heart of this: we don't have an investor mindset, such a tradition and culture in Norway. It's a tradition that we have to stay far, far away. We're going to have a forestry culture, a forest use that involves both a good social economy and a good private economy. It is said that the economy of forestry needs to be improved, and that we can manage to get education, interest, activity in the forest. Here we have a lot, a lot to go on. So the Council of State says that the EEA agreement with the free movement of capital limits. We heard nothing about it before 1994. But then it also comes in this area that the EEA Agreement will interfere with who will own Norway. This shows that the EEA Agreement is a coercion for Stortinget, a coercion against ensuring the necessary laws and instruments in Norway. Governments say it's hard to separate. Well, then we just take the same rules: personal ownership, living in Norway, and if someone has some ethnicity, doesn't mean anything. One lives in Norway, one runs the property. Everyone can own it. It's a very important platform, what's set up here, and I'm grateful that the Workers' Party and SV are together with the Center Party on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e369	I would like to see that it was Norwegian owners, I hear several sayings. However, if we want Norwegian ownership and believe that it is important in the future, we as a government must ensure it in the best possible way, and that is what this proposal is trying to do. It's not because we've now seen a huge race in the number of purchases. It's used as an argument that it's been stable now. Yes, it has been. But we have to make sure of the future and what can happen then. There are several representatives who have been up and talked well about what could happen. I come from the forest county of Hedmark, which I choose to say still, but now it's called the Inland, after this majority in Stortinget has forced a strange state. But then we get even bigger and have even more forest, and that's some of what we're going to create jobs in Norway in the future. It's renewable carbon that can help create jobs that we can make money on, that we can live together, that can be part of the circular economy. We know that's the future of the whole world now. That's why SV has presented a project that we call Green New Deal, where this is one of the important things. It is crucial that we ensure ownership of these resources, both forest and country, in Norwegian hands, for Norwegian owners, of course, have a greater interest in developing jobs in Norway – I hope so. There are some people who think it is good to drive their timber to Sweden now too, only they get paid well enough. There's a lot of things that need to be done here, but this is about looking forward. What we can look back on is how the concession laws in Norway guaranteed ownership of important resources. We can learn from that. Then all parties have probably made some wrong decisions on the way in this matter as well, and not so clearly in the future – that these are resources that are absolutely crucial for our future when we are going to cut greenhouse gas emissions, create jobs and make money in the future. It is SV's goal that we should achieve this, and then we must guarantee ownership of these crucial resources. Well, we might have to look at Statskog, too. If they don't find this profitable, we have to look at how it's rigged, so we're sure that that kind of constraint doesn't make important properties end up on foreign hands. Because that can't be in anyone's interest. We see what happens in other countries where someone strategically buys up important resources because they look into the future. It doesn't seem like this government is doing it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e382	I'm not going to extend the debate. I guess the case rapporteur said a lot of what this is all about. He said, "Who's going to bring up the capital?" If there are not large foreign – German, Chinese or Russian – companies, as others have mentioned here – who should raise the capital? To a large extent, we have seen that important local, large properties have been subject to owners who have no interest whatsoever in the vicinity, not to develop them as a recreational property, for hunting and fishing, or within the possibilities of creating added value, as in this case, for example. letting the forest become an important part of an industrial effort. With today's government's lack of willingness to close holes, it's still the capital, the big capital owners, who decide how we position ourselves and handle important Norwegian agricultural properties – unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e391	I'm going to be a little more honest than the previous speaker, so I'm going to say that I'm going to prolong the debate. I noticed and realized that the Council of State said that 0.2 pst. of the forested area of Norway was owned by a limited liability company. It was shaken on the head, and then I take it as if I've been listening wrong, because this is about 4 million pieces that are owned by private people, who are not private people, so it's a significant volume. I note that the debate is now on its way to the end. There is no one from the Right Party who has spoken against Trond Helleland that it does not seem to have so much to say whether there are Norwegian or foreign owners of the forest. I take that as a sign that it's actually the policy and the hold right has on this question. It's a very important clarification to get before we go into the election campaign, because this is not just about the view of the forest, it's about the view of the earth, it's about the view of the water force, it's about the view of the fish – and it's important to get the clear political divides. Even if we don't seem to have multiples for an important proposal today, I think this debate has contributed to an important principleal clarification of where the political parties stand. And what I think is important is that people in Norway have the opportunity to make their decisions through elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e402	I didn't really intend to extend this, but the last speakers make it absolutely necessary to say a little bit, because now the representative Pollestad and the representative Arnstad have pointed out for several rounds that I am the only one, in addition to the council, who participates from the government parties. Yes, that's right, because we have a position that we're in the situation we are, and we're going to take it into account, although of course it's a very interesting matter to debate. Of course, we could continue to talk about this for a long time, with so-called free debate, but it is not. I must also be allowed to say that I am quite surprised, not least by the representative of Aasland, because the property that has been up here, which in many ways has also triggered the representative proposal from the Central Party, is located in a municipality which, after the war, has largely been run by the Workers' Party, with some exceptions to SV and once with a building list. There has been no resistance from that area either when this was once sold from Norwegian Forest to Mäle and Ulvig Kiär, and now to Lukas Stiftung. The locals are so excited about it. I am critical, and I also stated that the Norwegian ownership is confusing, but I am extremely critical of what Mr Lundtägen came along with, which in my view is pure egoism in many ways. You don't build a nation like that. A nation is also based on the fact that when we have the opportunity to trade abroad, there must be room for it in this country – although it is given clear and unambiguous expression, both from me and the Council of State, that we want Norwegian ownership of Norwegian properties in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e411	I just want to give an explanation to the representative Pollestad. First, I would like to say that we do not weaken Norwegian ownership. First, there are very few properties with more than 1000 forest covers owned by a limited company today. Of the total number of properties with productive forest land, we're talking about less than 0.2 pst. Most properties are personal property and they require concession. I think that's good. Secondly, the company that bought in the Namdalen forest has to comply with some other laws and regulations – they have to comply with the soil law, and they have to comply with the forestry law on operation in any case. That means they have the responsibility to drive the forest that other owners in Norwegian hands had.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e418	As I said, this is a very important debate – an incredibly important debate. There is nothing more important in agricultural policy and in the use of Norway than who is to own Norway and the obligations to do so. That the Right keeps its path clean, I'm the first to say, because they've always been against such interference in private ownership. So the right-hand side is in a separate category. What's interesting is the Progress Party. I remember meeting in Copenhagen in the Norwegian-Chinese Chamber of Commerce. Then the Chinese told how they were interested in Norwegian natural resources. I do not know if the Progress Party representative sitting next to me was shocked that one should not have the concession law, but after the post he drowned in me and said: Lundtegen, the concession law has its clear advantages. That is what we are discussing here. The most interesting thing I have heard now in this discussion is the article by the representative of Skkelstad. The representative of Skkelstad says that what I said was egoism – it was egoism that we should have a law in Norway that ensured that the land was on Norwegian hands, was on Norwegian private hands, because that is what we are essentially discussing, and that there should be obligations to it. This is how far the Left Party has now gone. So the Left Party, which is really an honorary name, an honorary name, in my history, as followers of the concession laws and with Johan Castberg, now has a figure here in the Chamber who says it's egoism to stand for such a position. It shows the glide flight left by the Left Party into economic liberalism, and where there is no sloppy argument that is different from the Right Party. I have to say that I have not received any stronger proof that the Left Party is a completely unnecessary party in the future. I don't like to say it that often, but it has to be said in the case of the Left Party, because here we are at the very core of the social organization, and I can repeat it once again: I'm glad that the Christian People's Party is in government, because it's the Christian People's Party that has ensured that this isn't going completely wrong. That one is now in bad company, gets as much as it is, but the council does as best she can, and I want to be the first to thank the council for it: thank you!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e433	I took the floor now because of an important matter for the debate and the Stortinget now, both in this matter and generally in the time we are in. It was claimed by the representative of Skkelstad that the reason why the Right did not participate in the debate was that there should be few people in the room, and it was thus produced as if it were not the largest government party in terms of infection protection. But the right is represented in the Chamber by two representatives who could have made a fine speech on the matter in question, so we cannot have this as a rule at all for the debates in Stortinget on matters ahead. These are serious issues that we are dealing with, for too long, for a long time in the future, and when there is debate, of course, all parties must have the full opportunity to participate and say what they think. It is probably more in what the representative Pollestad pointed out, that it is simply that the parliamentary leader Trond Helleland has said what is being said from the Right. It was, of course, a very clear position, even though we in the Workers' Party disagree entirely with the view of the Right, that it does not matter whether it is German owners or local owners of forest areas in Trendelag and otherwise in our country. So a comment to the representative of Skkelstad, who almost claims that there should be something wrong in making sure that there is local ownership. Of course, we must also respect democracy, whether it is in Sweden or in Brazil or other countries, as to how they have wanted to manage their rural areas – that is an important principle. And many people look to Norway to learn from the progressive and social laws we have on how natural resources and land are distributed. Many countries just want better distribution and see how bad things have gone, for example. in Scotland, how large goods are collected in a few hands. Therefore, we should rather be proud and say that this is a social model that other countries are, of course, fully entitled to introduce into their democracies.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e441	I don't think the representative Lundteg is heavy-heard. But he breaks it out of a context. The context is: Shouldn't our solidarity also apply to the other way? It's a little like this when you pull up the story – and I think it's a little interesting: I don't remember it, but I got told by my grandmother when the Farmers' Association would go over to the Farmers' Party around 1920, that they walked around the farms to get engaged to those who were left-wing members. My grandmother was clear that time. She said, "We have to have a vision that's a little outside both agriculture and this -- we have to see a whole. We don't join a party of pure egoism. I have been – and still am – a clear no to EU vessels. I've been for a long time, and I'm going to be – probably – as long as I have the opportunity to think something about it. But I'm for EEA. I understand quite clearly – and I have never been in doubt about this – that the representative Lundtigen has also been opposed to it, even though things indicate in this world that Norway has great advantages of it, even though the representative Lundtigen obviously disagrees with it, and I respect that. But I also have to be allowed to say when we break out parts of a context, also the same as the Sandtrøen representative came in here, that I am difficult for a local ownership, I am difficult for us to have a diverse ownership, but it is not certain that in Namdalen we see such a big difference in whether that ownership is Lukas Stiftung or whether it is in Holmenkollen. I'm a little bit uncertain about it. I'm in any case for a Norwegian ownership that gives a diversity around our properties throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e448	The representative of Terje Aasland has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e453	If one is for Norwegian ownership and Norwegian diversity, one must vote for the proposals. Then one cannot cover himself behind that it is covering what is now. It's not even possible to argue that way, because it's opened up. We see how the law actually works. We see that it facilitates foreign owners – in large numbers. It's quite possible, it's just organizing the forest and the property so that it actually adds up to that kind of business. If one believes that one is too local diversity and Norwegian ownership, one must vote for the proposals. If not one is essentially opposite. But what's perhaps the most difficult right now is that the government parties cover themselves behind the infectious disease law, and then we get neither participation from the Christian People's Party nor from the Right. We have heard the Minister of Agriculture, but she defends the government's clear position. I am interested to know whether the representative Steinar Reiten is in charge of the regulation and the argument that the government has put forward in this matter. Is this the view of the Christian People's Party? It could have been nice to know. And then it could be nice to also know what the Right actually meant in this case, because it's those that are tone-indicating and leading.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e460	I want to reflect a little bit on the point of not participating in important debates because there's a pandemic going on. I'm assuming that neither the presidency nor any of the people responsible here in the house mean it, that now we're going to put a lid on all the important things in the country and be quiet in the hall, as much as possible – just let it tune through, write some notes and then finish it. I can't imagine that there's been a back room talk where one has concluded with it. Now I wasn't there, in that back room talk, but it can't happen. When all the attention in society is directed towards the pandemic, it's especially crucial that we focus on the important issues, at least in this room, and that we try to do it. Now we've debated for a little over an hour. Right has not yet taken the word. I would believe that the cooperation climate is not particularly favourable when a pusher of the Christian People's Party and the Left in front of itself, while the great party that supposedly has a significant influence on the position of the government in this matter is not willing to take the floor. They're pushing ahead of themselves, in everything that's unpopular. This is a case that has many dimensions and historical parallels. Obviously, if you move far too far from the tradition of your own party, you have an abandoned tradition. Then one can no longer claim that one is part of that tradition, calling on old values, old heroes in Norwegian history and haste laws from the early 1900s, etc. If you move too far away from it, you can no longer take it to your own income. It's just like that. There are many parties that are drifting away from their own tradition – obviously – but then an unopportunistic one can call on him in a case like this, where one so emphatically takes a completely different position from what Castberg would have done, to say it that way. This is Norway doomed to own. It is clear that in the case of sausages, pizza, car tires and the kind of things that can market raw. But there are some floor planks where one has to ensure local, national ownership, and there has been a long tradition in this process, for at least 100 years, to ensure national ownership of natural resources. Later, important companies came to secure important industrial processes. The right side was strongly critical of the legislation that led to the construction of a Norwegian offshore industry in Norway, but now is a sure very happy one to lose them. It's the same way now: Who should own decisive resources for Norway in the future? We record that Right does not take the word into account, presumably because there is an unpopular case and one wants to push the other party under the bus.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e473	I didn't really intend to speak in the matter, but at the direct request of the representative of Aasland, I would like to do so. In the Christian People's Party, we naturally support what is government policy in this matter. We record, as the Council of State has been involved, that the red-greens over eight years in government did not find any reason to change the law at this point. I also record that the red-greens later as if there was a touching consensus on their side of the line on how to manage the forest in Norway, and that is not true. Just before the summer, the Stortinget examined a proposal for a representative to stop the sale of our common Norwegian forests, which was promoted by representatives from the Workers' Party, where it turned out that there was a significant difference in the approach of the Workers' Party and the Centre's party on the one hand. While the parties on the left of the Centre Party – the farther out one comes, the clearer it becomes – want to carry out massive buying-up of forest that the State is to manage, the Centre Party has never been in favour of it. The centre party had very low shoulders when former Minister of Agriculture and Food, Jon Georg Dale, wanted to conduct a second round of arrondering sales, which the centre party did not allow to have anything against. At least there were no protests from that edge then. It would have been interesting, if the red-green parties have left some speaking time, if they could tell the Norwegian people how to pursue forest policy at a government shift. Will large state purchases be made where there is a country that is to be a forest owner, or will one after such a state purchase sell it to private forest owners?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e484	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e489	It's right, as the representative of Skkelstad says, in the different parts of the country there are different traditions of how to behave, and that in Namdalen there is a different culture than elsewhere. I am reasonably sure that people in Namdalen want the personal private ownership, but people living in Namdalen have had to accept Holmenkollen, and they protest against Germany. The center party sees the whole thing. As a representative of labour policy today, it shows – I would like to repeat to the Left – that we represent a whole in what we stand for. The EEA has become a coercive street, Brussels is crossing Stortinget. The center party will make the Storting much more important to capture the will of the people. And to conclude, the central party is rock-fenced by a private personal ownership with rights and duties, and there is broad, broad support in the Workers' Party, in SV and even in Red. Red is now more patentable on these issues than the lot Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e498	The representative of Geir Pollestad has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e503	I'm glad that it has come to light that there are no limits in the debate, that there is the possibility of taking the floor for all parties. I want to thank the Christian People's Party for taking the floor in the debate, and I want to answer what they said. In cooperation between the Centre Party, the Workers' Party and the SV, it is certain that one will create security around the concession law, and one will strengthen the concession law and preserve the Norwegian and local ownership. The other thing that is absolutely certain is that one will be willing to use Statskog as a traveler to secure Norwegian ownership. That's the thing about the Borregaard forests. Then we have a slightly different approach to the arrondissement hall, but the big and important questions are the consensus, and there will be a change if the voters want to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e512	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e529	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e536	Today, we have legislative changes based on the Storting decision in relation to the quota notification, and I would like to thank the Committee on Cooperation in the matter. The change in relation to the proposal originally sent at the hearing is that some proposals have been taken out as a result of the review of the notification, and the remaining proposals are quality-proof and impact-examined through the NOU in 2015 and Notifying. St. 32 for 2018-2019, continue in consultations and technical consultations. From the point of view of the majority, no process is left for the adoption of these proposals. As the majority assesses, neither does the removal of the main legislative proposals relating to proposals for state allowances with surrounding glory, in that sense, give any reason to amend the present proposals. Initially, I would like to say that the legal rules we are debating today are important rules of play for fisheries management, but they are not the ones that determine the specific allocation of quotas between vessels and ship groups or parts of the country. Rather, they determine the amount of allowances or how relapse should occur. Therefore, there will be room for both debate and policy whether or not this is now being adopted. I'm going to go through some of the most important aspects of the proposal that the majority is promoting here. When the authority to lay down rules is added to the ministry, it is in line with current practice. It makes sense in itself to ensure that maps and terrain are as consistent as possible. The transition from concession and annual participant access to common fishing permits means that large and small are treated equally and that a person does not technically renew participant access each year. This is in line with how the system currently operates in practice. Although participant access is routinely renewed every year, there is no controversy in it. It's also unusual, very unusual, that these aren't being renewed, and it's hard to find examples of that. Quota factors in any form or heading or any other name are currently in practice the way in which allowances are allocated between vessels, within groups of vessels – whether called jet share or whether it is called quota factor in the coastal fleet. This practice is now written into the law. There is in itself no change from today. In this context, replacement awards are also addressed without any changes in the current regulatory practice being made. The use of allowance factors relating to the length of the base partly combined with the actual length has given a relatively large number of combinations for the calculation of the individual vessel's quota, especially in the smaller coastal fleet. In some cases, changes in length of approx. one metre on the physical vessel within the limits of the longitudinal group, e.g. in the eleven-meter group, the allocation of allowances to the vessel in question could be permanently affected in practice. The transition to fixed quota factors does not change the current allocation of resources or the ability to change it in the future for real or political reasons, but significantly simplifies the system and makes it easier for each vessel to calculate its quota and becomes clearer. The area of today's legislative proposals that may be the greatest practical change is the new quota exchange scheme. This is a simplification that replaces several such schemes today. I assume that the scheme is limited in line with the quota notification proposal. It will set a ceiling on renting and renting, as well as a limit in the form of a quota cap, making this a flexible system for adapting fishing to local resources and fishing patterns without challenging other fisheries policy considerations. Renting and rental can only be made between active fishermen within the quota ceiling. In sum and in individual proposals, this is in line with the decision in the quota notification and quality assurance through a long process. It involves both simplifying practices and codifying practices such as those at present, and making it more clear from the overall regulatory framework that they are. So it'll be important to simplify and make it a little easier to navigate and operate in this business.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e555	First, I must welcome you to the Chamber and to the Chair of the Right. It's good to see them here. What is important for the Workers' Party when it comes to fisheries policy is to develop coastal communities. It is to ensure that you have the resources to live and live along the coast, and that you have stable framework conditions, so that you can bet in this industry. But it has become a problem, a problem for the whole industry, because predictability is not there. These are not stable framework conditions. The coast deserves better than what they now get. This case is not just a technicality, which you might try to make that, because this is a result of what we did in May, when we dealt with the quota notification. Now we're going to change the laws based on something we don't yet know the consequences of. That's pretty demanding. One thing is that it is demanding for us who are sitting here in the hall, but for those who are going to deal with this, it is very demanding. The National Auditorate, which we've talked about many times, has also come up with very clear criticism. One of the most serious concerns is how we process and how we get the consequences of the decisions taken in this room. We have been criticised for that. It should be important when dealing with the notification of allowances, and then it should obviously be important now. There is a reason why the opposition is voting against this matter. It is also true that the opposition was very critical when this matter came. I believe former fisheries minister Harald Tom Nesvik thought that handling the quota notification in Stortinget was plank driving. Therefore he could send this matter out at the hearing before we knew the consequences of the quota notification. We all know what the result of that was. The large organisations and industry also criticised this very clearly in the hearing. The fishing team, the coastal fishing team, Seafood Norway, Pelagic Association, LO and Sametinget, to name a few, have been critical. They've been critical because we don't know the consequences. What will the consequences be in this case? What authority do we transfer? What further powers does the ministry now have? It should be time with a foot in the ground. The Workers' Party has said that several times. The size should now know the consequences of the quota notification. I guess the coast should, the industry should, but you don't – and we're dealing with a case of law here. The frustration is great. Let me read up what the fisherman wrote just before Christmas: Fisheries policy has become an arena where it is everyone's fight against everyone. The contradictions between the groups have been reinforced. This is because one of the major conflicts now is that the government does not relate to the intentions, what was at the heart of the allowance notification – open group and allocation of resources. This is very important, this is big politics. It's about justice. Two of the things that the government itself put in the quota notification is about that. One is to remove the dynamic beam path to which the Workers' Party was strongly critical. In addition, a percentage distribution was set for the benefit of the largest. Then another action was taken: it was that the open group should be taken from the top. That means the trawls were to be with and pay resources to the open group as well. That's what the Minister for Fisheries has chosen to ignore. But there's no good reason for that, because if you opened that ball, you should have put forward a bigger and more complete case than what you've done. Let me tell you what the government of the Fiskers decided a few days ago. They are very critical and now mention the treatment of the allowance message as the problem ahead of the solution. They are particularly critical. The Minister for Fisheries should take that on board. You also ask that the parts of Stortinget now sit together, take a foot in the ground and see if you can agree. There is something the Workers' Party wants very welcome – we can do that – but then there are a lot of confessions that have to be on the table first.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e583	The layout of the allowance message and work with it are a pattern recipe for how policies should not be designed. One guess at the time, when one saw the dense change of fisheries ministers, where this was going to go. I had even agreed to a meeting on this matter with Minister of Fisheries Per Sandberg – he sent a State Secretary who put in my office and towed gum. I guess this wasn't going to be a happy process. Nor has it been, because what was to clean up the situation in the fishing industry has created more chaos than for a long time. What was supposed to create foresight has created insecurity, and that about one of our most important industries. For an important district industry – with large investments – that needs security and security, the government party and the Progress Party have created insecurity. One did a lot of grappling in this process. Because the first one was out there selling out more to the coastal fleet. But then one was also out and said: The distribution between the large and the small boats is fixed. The two things don't go together. One would remove the historical distribution between the different quotas and replace it with some average numbers, and one would deny that one made a change. One said, "This doesn't mean anything, we're just going to switch to a new system." But one has tossed on the boat the system that has been using the industry for a long time, and that has ensured that the smallest fleet has got a relatively larger share of the quotas for bad years. So, at the point after point, a failure has occurred, and one has created a non-coherent fisheries policy. In the middle of this, there was a national audit report that said that the fisheries policy is characterised by poor spending and poor preparation. The majority at Stortinget ended up. But what did the Stortinget and the Storing majority choose to do? Well, they made a decision asking the government to sort out the proposals they had made that were not settled. It's driving legislation and industrial policy in reverses, and it's completely wrong. Then comes this promise that we now have, which in a way is going to cost the chaos that lies. There is a rather strong cost when the government of the Fiskarlag says that the ‘quota notification and the treatment of it by the Stortinge has put the whole fishing industry in an almost impossible situation where important framework conditions for the future appear to be very unclear’. That's what you've done to deliver after spending so many years working on this. Now, I think it's time to take a foot in the ground and say, "This is not the best we could do, but here we don't just have to go on, we have to take a stop before this goes seriously wrong." For the course is wrong, and then one must fix this. I believe that the four fisheries policy spokespersons responsible for this, Bengt Rune Strifeldt, Steinar Reiten, Tom-Christer Nilsen and André N. Skkelstad, together with Minister for Fisheries Odd Emil Ingebrichtsen, should use the debate today to excuse the fishing industry for the situation in which one has seen the industry, because the fishing industry is so much stronger, much better than they have. They're fasting things that are well done, where we know the consequences, not where they have to sit and tip: what was the Big One meant by this? Did they mean one decision, or did they mean the other? What should happen to these structure quotas? Are we or are they the ones to get them? Here's the people and they're going to make investments. One has had a long-standing political process that would even get clarity, and the only one that has been given is ambiguity. Then I think an apology is in place. And maybe an outstretched hand to the other parties as well – if we are going to try again and see if we can achieve a broader consensus on the fisheries policy, where one puts away the ideology, and where the government does not start the process of making some political proposals that no one has asked for and which solves problems that no one has. There was also something wrong, because one brought new taxes, one brought new taxes, one brought allowances banks here and allowances banks there. All the focus was on stopping it, and then everything went out, and one of them got what can only be described as chaos. That, I think, is an important industry for which the fishing industry is inexcusable.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e600	It's a little sad to see the situation we're currently in in the Norwegian fishing industry, where we have a policy that's run by the government, but that doesn't have support. The industry is strongly critical of the main line. You can't even imagine how this should happen in the future. We know that the level of conflict in the fishing industry itself is quite high, and then the policy comes to the top, creating a sea of uncertainty and thus contributing strongly to the conflict. So we're in a crisis where the government is contributing quite actively. The Land Government Decision of the Fishlayer should give you some impression. One might take off the wise face and admit that it actually makes a strong impression. A total slaughter of how a man manages politics. We are facing a regulatory crisis for the law we have now passed. No one knows what's going to happen. What is the review tone is that, in practice, the entire law empowers the ministry to lay down a regulation. The normal thing about such promises, and promises in general, is that the Storting gives some superiors, and then the government comes back and gives closer instructions through regulations. But what we're adding here, at point after point after point, is that the government can set regulations from the beginning of it. The law has been moved about out of the staging room and into the hands of the ministry. The distribution of competences between magnification and government is quite strange. I don't think there's a field that's so large and significant and with huge values in the hundreds of billionaires class, where one just overestimated this by setting the law completely and keeping it to the government. Let's take some of the named things from the allowance notification, for example. conversion. There's nothing in the law on conversion. It shall be determined by the Department. This with fishing licenses and the transition to fishing licenses shall also be determined by the Ministry. Whether or not to close a fishing operation, which is fundamental, should not be determined by the Size; it should be determined by the Department by regulation. Quota factors – which is a very central part of the criticism from the Fiskerlage – are not allowed to be included in the law either. It shall be determined by the Department. Again and again, one here sees that a person has actually moved responsibility from Stortinget to the government. This means that if you get a new multiple, you can almost only send some comments in the budget allocation can make huge changes in the fisheries policy. There is no need to change the laws, because the department's action space is infinite. I want to challenge the Storting to think a little bit about the consequences of this and what kind of situation we can get into. For my part, these are possibilities, but for industry, whether it's the industry or not, whether it's the law that's going to be what's building the country, which is going to lay down some rules, and that there's going to be extensive legislative processes ahead of big changes – when you move this whole room out of the law and into the regulation, you have a big problem. Everyone knows where SV contains these questions, but it's actually very difficult to find where we should be in disagreement in fact, because there's nothing the department suggests to fuck in law. It's very small. And then we have the processual part of this, which is very, very strange, where a suggested hearing of the law before the processing of the allowance message. So the allowance message came with its conclusions, where very, very significant changes, were made from the bulk of what was in the bill from the government. But it didn't lead to the ministry withdrawing the bill, not opening new rounds of consultation with Sametinget when the bill came. Here the government simply establishes a minefield for conflict and becomes the main player in creating conflict in Norwegian fisheries policy, and it has probably never happened before.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e625	The legislative proposal we are discussing today is a natural continuation of work on implementing a forward-looking quota system for fisheries in line with the decisions taken when the Stortinget dealt with the quota notification last June. The main change is that the annual approvals of participants in closed group coastal fishing vessels will now be terminated. Instead, a common system is established for all closed fishing vessels, whereby both sea-going fleets and coastal fishing fleets are allocated fishing authorisations and associated quota factors for each species. When the legislative proposal was sent to the hearing, concerns were expressed by several hearing bodies that new Section 12 of the Act of Participation included a wording that permits to fish for each vessel may be granted for a specific period of time. The concern concerned the predictability of operators in the industry by including such a time-limit clause in the law. The Christian People’s Party believes that there is no reason to worry about this wording in the legal text. Until now, existing law-enforcement practices have been in place in the closed group of coastal fleets through annual renewal of participant access, so there is no new principle in fisheries management. In addition, there is reason to recall Section 2 of the Marine Resource Act, which states that the wild marine resources are in the community in Norway. Legalising that fishing authorisation can be granted at a given time will be in line with the basic principle of Norwegian fisheries management. However, it is important for us to stress that annual allocation and admission of participants to closed group ships in the coastal fleet has followed a practice in which access has been renewed as long as the ship and the vessel owner comply at all times with the requirements imposed by participation in acquisition fishing in law and regulation. Similarly, it is the rule that concessions in the sea fishing fleet have been granted without time-limit clauses. Predictability is of particular importance for the actors involved in acquisition fishing. We would therefore like to stress that the majority of the joint submissions argue that the management continues a practice whereby fishing permits are granted according to the same administrative principle that has prevailed in the granting of concessions in the sea fishing fleet, i.e. without a defined time limit when allocation takes place. In the context of the processing of the allowance notification, the Storting agreed to the establishment of an allowance exchange scheme for the exchange and lease-in of allowances within one allowance year. The scheme was incorporated into new Section 14 of the Marine Resource Act, and it will be designed to limit 20 and 50 pst respectively. the values of the allowances allocated to the vessel. In this regard, we would like to stress that the majority of Storting's treatment of the quota notification concluded in a joint note that, as a general rule, the maximum net lease-in should be delimited by the quota ceiling in the fisheries covered by the structural quota system and for the vessel group in which each fishing operation is carried out. So the lease is not meant to be an additional structure. Here we also refer to the Granavolden platform, which states that no changes should be made to the ceilings for the structure of the different fleet groups. A practice of renting 50 pst. by the allowance values of an allowance exchange scheme irrespective of the structural quota cap of the fleet group would not have been consistent with the intention underlying that point in the Granavolden platform. We also have a few brief comments on the following wording in the proposal for a new Section 15 of the Participant Act: ‘Where there is a condition that, at a given future date, allowance factors shall no longer be allocated to the ship: [[time limit]] The Ministry must necessarily draw up a regulation on the application of time-limited allowance factors at the end of the time limit. It will always be, however, that at all times it is the Storting that gives the superior leaders in such fundamental questions. This was the last time the allowance notification was processed, when a unanimous increase asked the government not to establish a government allowance stock based on curtailment at the end of the time limit for structural allowances. Then we record that the opposition in its comments in the committee position and here in the Chamber today criticises the government for a fisheries policy that creates uncertainty and lack of predictability. It is a claim that we in the Christian People's Party find both strange and incomprehensible. It is precisely the opposition parties that contribute to uncertainty and unforeseeability, not least in dealing with this matter. Not only does it refuse to endorse legislative changes that are a natural consequence of clear decision-making, but if the opposition were given a majority in favour of such an approach, it would take a considerable longer time for the fishing industry to obtain the necessary clarifications on the framework conditions that are essential for predictability. In all cases, the opposition considers it appropriate to criticise the government for the implementation of a thorough consultation process on key issues to be addressed in the preparation of legislation, including: for the set-aside of structural quotas. When the opposition parties seriously state in their comments that there is uncertainty about the consequences of decisions because they are to be impact-examined, at least I have problems following the reasoning.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e654	The case rapporteur made it clear that we are being followed up on important rules for the future. The representative riding gave in many ways, in what else was a very good post, an explanatory piece of what this is. It's a natural follow-up to the quota notification we had up there. It also gives you a more flexible system. There is predictability of the annual participant access. So it's worth noting this, which we also had a few rounds in connection with the quota notification – I'm going to be a bit stunned when the only representative Pollestad takes up when he's invited by a former government council, is that he was so concerned with chewing gum certification, and does not mention that the case rapporteur with us fisheries policy spokespersons invited Pollestad's representative with several to many rounds to try to get a wider majority behind the quota notification. What I did after those meetings, even though the distance was great at the time, was that the representative Knag County actually worked hard and saw if there was any room for opportunity here, even if the policy was so far broken. I respect that. The representative, Knag Fylkesnes, was at that time clear about what was not possible for his party, but he saw the space of opportunity – could there be any chance of having that predictability? Predictability lies there, but when it comes to designing policies, it is about giving and taking. Then I'll be in a hurry when I get to this room today, because this is a follow-up to what we decided in ours. If the opposition had obtained a majority, as the representative Reiten aptly said, it would have really become unpredictable for an entire industry. It had really created waves and high water levels. The logic of the lines of argument is a little bit difficult for me to follow. The same representative Pollestad says in his post that now is the time to put away the ideology. Yeah, it's interesting if the Center Party has ever had an ideology -- I'm a little uncertain about that. I have much more respect for, for example, the representative Knag Fylkesnes, who says quite clearly where they want to go, his clarity on it. He also did so at the meetings we had when we were doing the quota notification. I think what we're doing today is just part of creating the necessary predictability, the necessary flexibility, which in turn makes this an industry that goes reasonably well. I even received some reports yesterday from the seismic fishery in the Outer Namdalen, but also from the north: the fisheries are going well. But it's clear that the general here is that we want a policy that works, so that we have a development on the coast all the time. Today it looks bright, but you can never predict in the crystal ball completely.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e669	When the Riksrevision ended Norwegian fisheries management, they concluded with what is the second most powerful category of criticism. They said that ‘established fisheries policy principles have been challenged’. In good Norwegian, this means that the Riksrevision states that the fisheries policy has gone in the wrong direction. And the big political question is whether the fish in the sea should again belong to the people, or whether a dozen creepy quota barons are going to run off with profit. The quota message, which was knocked through in the Government Party and the Advance Party last spring, takes us on a course that serves the quota barons, not the coastal population. The amendments we are voting on today were sent to the government's hearing before the new proposal for quota notification was dealt with in Stortinget. Neither would the government parties wait for the Riksrevisions review of the fisheries policy before dealing with the legislative changes. But they had to bow to the pressure. With the blessing of the Advance Party, the government was given a new policy that the whole coast and large parts of the industry are opposed to. A year ago, I was in Vardø, where people along the coast have stood up in protest because fishing resources are privatized and ports on increasingly fewer hands, coastal communities are being deprived of resources and a dozen families today own half of their quotas. Norway has huge sea areas with some of the world's richest fisheries, but Vardø, as many other communities along the Finnmark coast, which is closest to the most fishing areas in the world, are not given the opportunity to live on the fish. When a traditional fishing community like Vardø fails to achieve this, there is something fundamentally wrong with the country's fisheries management and its fisheries policy. What has happened, with the knowledge and will of the Greatness, with open eyes and ears, is a run of the community's resources. And it shall be said, It has enriched billionaires like Kjell Inge Smoke and Helge Mögster. They have done that, the bourgeois – they should. But it has thus deprived the coastal communities of the basis for much of the employment and housing in the future, and that is what we want to turn around. The fish must return to the community, and it must land, so that it ensures and creates activity along the whole coast and benefits the Norwegian people. Following strong pressure from the Red Sea, the Stortinget decided in spring that the government would impact on those parts of the fisheries policy that had not been investigated before the adoption of the quota notification decisions. We believe that the changes we are now making in the Participant Act and the Maritime Resource Act should be subject to all aspects of the fisheries policy, because it needs to be seen in a coherent way, and it needs to be seen in a comprehensive way. Under the corona pandemic, we also see how vulnerable Norway is when labour migration stops. We need a fisheries policy that ensures more all-year coastal workplaces and makes us less dependent on imported labour. In this way, we also ensure employment and housing in coastal communities. Recently, a letter came to the department of the Fiskerlag, where they said in sharp order that ‘The quota notification and its treatment by the Storting has put the whole fishing industry in an almost impossible situation where important framework conditions for the future appear to be very unclear’. This is a strong signal. It also strongly condemns the unprofessional treatment of the fisheries policy of the bourgeois parties in Stortinget. Red wants both a rich coastal fishing and the supply of fish to businesses in our coastal communities. Value creation in Norway is increasing when coastal communities are transformed into quality products. It provides livelihood for coastal fishermen and for people along the coast, while what the government and the Progress Party are in favour and doing is a sneak privatisation of the right to fish for the future, and it is a betrayal of the peoples of the coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e693	The Government has submitted a proposal for changes to the Participant Act and the Maritime Resource Act. The aim is to facilitate the fishing management to follow up the parts of the quota notification to which the size has already joined. The legislative proposal is therefore a technical follow-up to decisions already taken by the Stortinget in connection with the examination of the quota notification. The measures have already been discussed and evaluated in the quota notification and the Storting and have been the subject of public consultations. In-depth assessments of the administrative and economic consequences have been carried out. The Ministry has also carried out its own technical consultation on the legislative proposals themselves. The main thing here was to shed light on legal issues. The legislative proposal will contribute to a more modern and up-to-date regulatory framework. In this context, I would like to highlight in particular three measures in the quota notification that get new and good legislation. The measures are important for the future direction of Norwegian fisheries: The first measure is the new joint fishing permit, which replaces current concessions and participant access. They get their own law home in the Act of Participation § 12. Those Common Fisheries Permits will contribute to a significant simplification of the legislation by regulating all access regulated fisheries with the same type of authorisation and in accordance with harmonised rules. Another important advantage is that the new fishing authorisations do not have a predetermined time limit, so that one does not need to renew them annually, as one does today. This will mean resource savings and increase predictability for stakeholders and allow a more realistic time horizon. The other measure I would like to mention is the new fixed ratio factors, which are regulated in new section 15 of the participant law. Quota factors have been an important element of the annual allocation of allowances between vessels for a very long time. In other words, they are of great importance to the ship's operational base. Nevertheless, allowance factors have never been mentioned directly in the law and to a small extent in regulation, which unfortunately allows for uncertainty about the legal status. The bill fines this by referring directly to the ratios and their legal status in the law. This contributes to legal clarification and more widely available legislation and to greater predictability for actors. The third measure is the quota exchange mechanism. The quota exchange mechanism is completely new and will contribute to considerably greater flexibility for many shipowners: within a given framework, shipping companies will be able to exchange allowances for one year at a time to adapt their operations in the short term. It will be possible to design it without complex application procedures and to save management and industry from unnecessary expenditure. I am pleased that we now have the necessary legal frameworks in place to follow up the many good measures in the quota notification that Stortinget has already agreed to. So far, the management has been able to follow up only the relatively few measures in the notification of allowances that do not require legislative changes. With the new legal frameworks in place, the process could finally become more extensive. The next step for fisheries management will be to carry out necessary consultations on regulatory changes. This is how the final implementation of the Storting decision could take place, which I look forward to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e719	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e724	The Minister for Fisheries has probably also taken the decision on the National Government of the Fiskarlag. They say, among other things: the quota notification and its treatment by the Storting has put the entire fishing industry in an almost impossible situation, where important framework conditions for the future appear to be very unclear. That is quite harsh, but clear words. Does the Minister for Fisheries agree with the description of the Fiskerlage?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e729	It is only necessary to understand that the Fiskarlag always wanted to postpone the processing of the quota notification – it is in that context. The reality is that allocating a limited resource has always been a conflict and has always created uncertainty. It's been like this for generations in Fisheries Norway. The short answer to this is that it may not be the quota message that is the problem, but that the Fishlayer is unable to reach an internal agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e734	That's a pretty special statement, I'll say. I am not sure if the Minister for Fisheries really believes that. Although the Fishlayer disagrees, I am quite sure that the Fishlayer and the coast can deal with most as long as there are clear decisions to deal with. The problem here is that there are no clear decisions to deal with – the fishing industry does not know what to deal with. Criticism is all-round on just that. What the Fishlayer is actually asking for is a collective team of fishermen. It's a timeout, a foot in the ground, that the Minister of Fisheries probably knows that the Workers' Party has also asked to look at how to deal with what has been adopted. What are the consequences? What can be done to ensure predictability? Will the Minister for Fisheries be involved in such a job?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e743	I have to say that fisheries policy in Norway is very much pragmatism and finding good solutions. This is how I feel enough that the opposition has largely searched for conflicts and looked for problems in order to blow them up as much as possible. But I think it's very good that you stretch out a hand and are interested in compromises. I think there would be more uncertainty if you had not dealt with the allowance notification. The fisheries policy of the Workers' Party seems to have introduced something new, but it has actually been trying to address as much as possible, postponing the difficult issues – and now ‘a foot in the ground’. It's a challenge to manage to distribute resources. Now I have followed up the decision of the Grand Duchy as the Council of State. We have strengthened the conventional fleet, the small group of vessels, with approx. 4000 tonnes this year and taken from the sea-going fleet, in line with the decision of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e750	I think it's good that it's me and not the fisheries minister who's going to present the Labour Party's policy, because that was a bad attempt. But the description of the opposition in this case is kind of like the ostrich – it's like sticking your head in the sand and letting it stay there. It is not the opposition that comes with this criticism, it is actually an overall industry. It's the Fiskerblad, it's the Fiskerlag. It's just traveling along the coast, you hear the same criticism. When you stand here and say that you've strengthened the smallest part of the fleet, while you've done what you've done in an open group -- which is in contradiction to what the Great Government has said, to what the government actually put forward -- it's very special. Does the Minister for Fisheries think that the decision taken after the Great Government had split up in December, that trawls should not be allowed to contribute to an open group, is in line with the intentions laid down in the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e759	The government has followed up the majority decision of the Storing to point and point. We have also followed up the request decision on non-significant redistribution between ship groups, which is also government policy, because stability and predictability are important for all operators in the fishing industry regardless of the type of vessel they have. We're strengthening the open group, we're strengthening it especially considering the young fishermen who now get 4 more tons if they're less than 30 years old. What is happening now is that the small fleet is strengthened in line with the decision of the majority of the Storting. There are great opportunities to further develop the Norwegian fishing industry, which is profitable. That's a good starting point. We have a lot of success with sustainability. We still have challenges to get even more full-time jobs along our coast, but that's what it's working on. We also need people who are willing to take a roof and who want to invest in and get to more jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e768	I note that the criticism of the situation and the unincorporated doctor that the government has created is quite unison from both the fishing boats, the coastal fishing team and the fishing team. And so we're going to hear here that the Council of State is blaming the Fishlayer for what's happened in this. There is no doubt that there has been a lot of ambiguity and uncertainty in this matter, and I believe many of those who have participated in voting for what the government has done have had serious problems explaining what a person has actually meant. My question is: is the Council of State satisfied with the process that has been around the quota message, or does it see that things could have been done in another order, with clearer decisions? Could the process have been better, and has one done too bad a job?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e775	It is just that it is difficult for me to comment on, because I became the Council of State about when the quota notification was to be processed, so I have not participated in the process in advance. There was certainly room for improvement in that process as well. I think it is important in policy in general – when it is stated in the Storting that predictability and stability are important – that all parties contribute to seeking together and finding the widest possible solutions. We know well that fisheries are doing well, although there are also challenges there. That's a good starting point for actually creating more activity and more jobs along our coast, which I feel is that a wide-ranging magnification is really very busy, only we can get away with a little bit of the political game that's going on in front of a campaign. Of course, all parties have to take their responsibilities, but I think we should try to get together and find common solutions, if possible. It has proved not to be possible in the allowance notification, but sometimes you also have to make decisions and not postpone something that has been a difficult matter for generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e784	Fishing authorisations shall now be granted for several years. What's been a little bit of a problem here is that someone bought a fishing permit, and you haven't done anything about it. Making these fishing authorisations longer will make it difficult to purchase and sell fishing authorisations. Will the Council of State ensure that the purchase and sale of fishing authorisations cease?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e789	The bill requires us to continue and legislate a practice that has always been, and we intend to continue to do so. I just want to say that with fishing permits it is a significant simplification. The annual renewal of Participant access will be avoided, and this will also mean more predictability for operators in the industry. There has always been uncertainty in fisheries. You know, for example. not how much fish you are allowed to fish for next year based on the scientific advice. What has created a lot of uncertainty now is, for example: the setback of structural quotas and the transition from the length of the base to the actual length. These issues need to be addressed through good investigations and finding good solutions in close dialogue with industry. That problem wouldn't have gone away anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e797	As I was in my post, this law is very much a law of authority. I believe that a new step has been taken towards giving powers from accumulation to government. The Council of State itself was involved in this with fishing permits. Several have pointed out that where the definitions of the previous paragraph of the Stortinge have moved the definition of the content of a fishing licence to the department. It makes it quite incomprehensible for both the industry and the Stortinget to follow up on how the law and the decisions and comments made in the Stortinget are followed. Had one had a law where this was described, laid the leaders, and then came the regulations afterwards, it would have been easier. Can the Council of State here and now declare to Stortinget that when new regulations are written and sent out on a ring, it will explicitly refer to comments given by Stortinget on the subject of legislation?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e806	It was a very wide question, but I think the answer to that should be yes, based on the way it is asked. The whole purpose of the law is to simplify some things and legislate what has been past practice, so it sounds like the correct answer to the question is yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e811	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e818	The government is building on Prop. 137 L for 2020–2021 that the Stortinget can deal with legal proposals that were promoted as a notification for the Stortinget, without worrying about the serious and strong criticisms of the National Audit Office, such as: lack of impact assessment prior to amendments and that they have not assessed to a greater extent how the changes in the quota system affect the fishing activity of coastal communities after they have been implemented. The national audit considers it serious that the sum of the changes to the allowances system has had some unintended negative effects on fishing activity in many coastal communities. This is what we see when we look at the development of a number of coastal municipalities. Take, for example: my neighbouring municipality, Loppa, a municipality in Finnmark: They have lost over 70 pst. of the allowances they had in 2004, and as a result, the population is more than halved. Loppa, who has always had good control of the municipality's operation, now has difficulty maintaining good housing in the many small towns in the municipality. It is strange to think that Loppa no longer has full-time industrial jobs in traditional fisheries. Then it might not be so strange that the population goes down. The government does not listen to the many people who want to postpone the legislative work after the Riksaudition has presented the conclusion of its study of the quota system in coastal and marine fisheries, an impact assessment that would have helped us in the decision and which would have easily shown what is unfortunate choices. The National Audit Service criticises that the government is abandoning legal socio-economic analyses. The size, with its expected decision, allows the government to continue to abandon such analyses by the legislative changes that are now being proposed for the Stortinget. What the size now legitimises is that the government continues a practice that is tearing away the livelihoods of fishing weather after fishing. It should be unnecessary to say that this is serious, very serious. I was into it instead: another element that I had hoped one would have looked at is the fact that it is now being bought and sold allowances without the Storting having opened up for this. Although this is a practice that several people have been involved in, it's just not what the law says it should be. This has to stop.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e829	We have noted with interest that representatives from the opposition parties have recently spent a lot of time and energy criticising the government's fisheries policy. We live with that, all the time when the Minister for Fisheries is making exemplary efforts to invite dialogue with the fisheries organisations and to carry out good and thorough consultation processes when overall decisions are to be implemented and brought down in new legislation. However, the total absence of the rhetoric from the opposition batches is to give a common signal of what the fishing industry and the individual fisherman will have to deal with at any government change in the harvest. What is the fisheries policy, the content of the fisheries policy, in which the opposition parties will then lead? That the opposition parties are competent to avoid saying anything about it, is understandable, because here it cracks well in the staurbæs. SV will withdraw the entire quota base from the obligation trawls and transfer it to the coastal fleet, otherwise without being able to provide a good response to how such a massive quota transfer will turn out in view of overfishing on the coastal cod and smooth raw material access throughout the year. The Red Party, hoping for a tilting position towards a red-green minority government, goes even further. When the Storting processed the quota notification in June last year, the representative Moxnes said it is time to send the freeze trawls to scrapping and transfer the entire quota base to the coastal fleet. The Central Party may act as if the fisheries policy is changing internally whenever representatives Pollestad and Adelsten Iversen take the floor to comment on quota allocation between fleet groups. During the examination of the quota notification, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre proposed to reintroduce the 28-meter limit for the coastal fleet, otherwise a restriction that the same batches themselves had been removed in 2010, when they were in government. On questions from the Norwegian Fishing industry magazine on the basis of which a new coastal fleet group of more than 28 metres will be required to fish, the same batches will be liable. The Working Party and the Centre agree that there is an issue that needs to be thoroughly addressed, whereas SV believes that vessels over 28 metres should be regulated as seagoing vessels. It cannot be understood that SV considers that these vessels should then be added to the seagoing vessels already fishing on the quota base of that fleet group. During the processing of the notification of allowances by the Storting, SV, together with the Centre Party, also proposed to ask the government to seek out a mechanism whereby today’s system of buying and selling vessels with allowances is replaced by a system of concessions whereby the proximity of resources and competence determines access to rights — what it should mean. It was a proposal which meant that the two batches are willing to consider a conversion of access to closed fisheries which is far more extensive than any of the proposals presented in the quota notification. The proposal was not supported by the Workers' Party and, fortunately, it was not adopted. And while SV, Red and the Centre will risk the EEA Agreement and thus distort the whole basis for Norwegian fish exports to the EU, the Workers' Party doubts that it is not appropriate to go to government with renegotiation of the EEA Agreement as part of the Government Platform. A common red-green fisheries policy does not exist. It consists of fragmented and partly populist output cracking in all directions. It does not promise good for one of Norway’s most important district industries at any government change to the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e842	Let me start by saying that when one discusses industrial policy in the Stortinget, one should initially have the goal of agreeing, creating good, broad solutions to the framework conditions, so that one got forward-optimism up and lay the foundation for predictability and stability. That is the true opposite of what has been achieved through the processing of the quota notification and through the follow-up of the decisions taken in the Stortinget. It is almost a disaster to record how the bulk of the population has initially contributed to the root and the pipe to an industry that has had bright prospects. That's the result. So now we hear that someone's kind of trying to blame the opposition. I would warn against mixing the opposition into a role they themselves have to take responsibility for. There is no stability and predictability, the majority now adopts. On the contrary, there is creating uncertainty, and it started with the allowance message. There was no reason to agree on it and the proposals that came there. It showed the discussion in Stortinget. There was an incorrect quota notification – an allowance notification where we were given a decision where someone did not know exactly where to go. That was the result, and it's been massive resistance all along. The whole coast is initially insurrection because of the treatment that the majority of the population carries in the quota notification and its follow-up. That is the result in an industry where there should now be investments, conversions, contracting of new vessels, etc. That's where we should be, because that's the basis for optimism. But because of the government, government parties and the Advancement Party, there is a lot of uncertainty and mess and pipes created. I'm using that expression in all simplicity, because it all understands what it means. Now we see that the contractions are going down, the uncertainty is spreading. Less interest is reported in newly built and major upgrades of fishing boats at a time when we should really have made sure that the fishing fleet was renewed, at a time when the maritime sector really needs new assignments. So they're trying to push the responsibility that it doesn't work, to an opposition that from day one has pointed out the weaknesses in the quota notification, and that now points to weaknesses in the follow-up – the stability and security of it. No, had it been thanks to both the Minister of Fisheries and the majority now, one had done as Myrseth said, taken an hour out and got calm, stability and again a belief in the future along the coast and in Norwegian fisheries, for we need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e853	Now I've tried to listen carefully to the posts that have been, to try to find out if it's actually said something about the bill that's ahead here. Then I will give tribute to the representative from SV, who has actually said something about the demarcation between corruption and government, between the levels of government, in terms of the legislative proposal. What's a little bit of a shame is that if it were to be held here today, it should have come out in connection with the quota notification that you wanted a different distribution of authority than the one that's there today. It didn't, and so it might be that it's a little bit difficult to take it into account in the process that's been here. But today's bill does not essentially change that distribution between levels of government or the level of authority. For the rest, this debate here in the Chamber is today part of the legal basis for understanding the legislation that is, most likely, being adopted today. It would have been good to know if you were against or for what is here as a proposal in the hall today. You haven't said anything about it, you've just said that you want to postpone it. So it's kind of the challenge here. The quota factor is the way to distribute it today. What's wrong with that? Is it wrong, or is it right to have it codified in the law, so you have a relationship between maps and terrain? When using fixed quota factors, will it be easier and easier for individual vessel owners and fishermen to deal with this? And is it better with these fixed ratios than with the 90 cm fine-masked system that we had up to today? And in terms of quota exchange, it's good to know if you think it's right to continue with the needs-tested solution we have today, or if we're going to allow an quota exchange as proposed here, in very limited forms, but which will provide a more efficient and adapted fishing. I would like to encourage you to say what you think about the legislative proposals here, because you can see it as a whole, that it's a cloud, and that it can only be understood in the light of an overall quota notification, but you can also look at the individual provisions and see if they make sense in themselves, whether you're in favour of or against the quota notification. As I can see, these proposals would have been proposed essentially independent of the quota notification, because they are the practical ones in relation to the practice in the administration today, which is wanted by the Storting. In addition, they take into account what the Riksrevision pointed out about this. There's nothing here that cuts off socio-economic calculations in any way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e864	The representative Nilsen says he has stood here and listened, and then he takes time on the platform to ask what the opposition means. It was said in the first article. We vote against it. I don't know if you can say it so much more clearly than that. It's very special to witness the total discharge from the majority of responsibility in this room. Now it has been the opposition's fault this whole period that there is uncertainty in the fisheries. It's up to the opposition that it's a mess. Now this is a political game because it's a campaign. I don't know what was the reason two years ago, but the argument has at least been the same. They should have, they've adhered to the same argument: it's the opposition's fault when there's political uncertainty and unrest. Can you take some responsibility for that? Maybe it's because you make bad decisions, maybe it's because you make bad assessments, maybe it's because you don't listen well enough? Today something new came, today it was not just the opposition's fault. No, it's the Fish Team's fault. It's the Fishlayer's fault because there's so much trouble in the Fishlayer – they can't agree. Therefore, the clear decision came a few days ago. I have not heard that there was a great deal of disagreement in the Fiskerlage about the decision that now came. I think there is quite a consensus along the coast about what came, from the coastal fishing team and right up to the fishing boats. So I don't understand that, but I understand that it's unpleasant to have to take responsibility for the concern. But the policy that is being pursued is the responsibility of the government at all times. When there is concern about policy, it must also be taken into account. Then again we heard from the representative Steinar Reiten how bad it is for the fisheries policy with a red-green government. There is no one who believes, because there is one thing the red-green parties have shown, even in recent years: in this Chamber there is very much agreement on fisheries policy. You have a common direction. You want to strengthen the coastal communities, you want a fairer distribution. Then these three games have to be three games. We don't have a government statement yet, but it's going to come, and it's going to be very good for the coast. I'm sure there's a lot of people who are now looking forward to it coming, and you can look at the uprising that is. But I agree with the Fishlayer, you should sit down and take a timeout and actually get a decision that would create predictability and a fairer distribution for the coast. We're ready to do that, and so were we in the previous round.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e879	Thanks to the Council of State, which makes it clear that it will be possible to follow Storting's comments and decisions, even when the regulation is now being laid down, in so many different areas, so that you can see how the policy is run from Stortinget. Although SV is not consistent in much of the policy being pursued, it is a very important democratic principle that one should be able to follow it. Rather, as the representative of Nilsen is involved, it should be much clearer in the law what the law actually says, in order to bring them to the fore. This has also been a problem with SV for a few years. We believe it is a major problem in the fisheries policy that powers are so well known. We have had several issues with the Department, and also the Directorate, because one has moved these powers further down into the system, in which the Riksrevision has pointed out the problem. We think it's the government that's doing this, so the government gives further powers to the subordinate body, etc., etc., and then there's no control over it, as the Riksrevision has pointed out. Instructions were, for example: a large theme in the previous ageing period and an example of how bad things can go. One creates completely unnecessary conflict. Coastal quota cases had the same problem. So you can go from area to area, which has its problem that the Storting does too little of what the Storing is supposed to do, to establish law, but to move it. So to the Horseman: Alternatives are chaos, today's chaos, or another type of course. When one sees that what can creep and walk by fishing communities and organisations is critical to the government's line of action, one might ask: What is a real problem trying to solve here — who's their problem? Who's interested is it really trying to meet? It seems that there's something just trying to figure it out on your own. If it had been in industry, if the entire industry of Norway, the NHO and all the industrial communities concerned had disagreed in industrial policy, he would not have been implemented. But in the fisheries policy it does. That's all right. It is quite wrong that SV wants to remove the entire quota base from the mandatory trawlers. What we've said is that the duty of activity is to pass. There are about one third of those who are related to the activity obligation, which is currently part of the obligation arrangement. The right shall be correct. We build our policies on two public distributions that show that the whole system of duty trawlers does not work after Storting's decision. It's not working. It also meant that Per Sandberg, when he was Minister for Fisheries, proposed to wind up the whole thing. We agreed on that in SV. We want to move the quantity to the coast, where one gets much more value. Finally, I just want to say that there's a sign in time that the government party spends more time describing the opposition's policy and what can happen after the election, than defending today's politics with today's government. We're going to hope this again.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e894	The representative Steinar Reiten has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e899	We who have been in politics for a while know that an important part of the essence of politics is to point out what one believes is wrong in the policies of the opposite party. However, it should also be part of the policy that an alternative can be presented in this case. The opposition cannot do that. The representative Myrseth may say what she will, but per today it cracks in every direction. We can give the opposition an opportunity now, for example. telling how the available quota of cod is to be allocated between the seagoing fishing fleet – mainly composed of trawlers – and the coastal fleet. I have not registered that there is any common response to it so far. Then the parties get together and see if they can agree on what they've so far disagreed about. It will be a long canvas to bleach, and there are many cigars that have to be hacked down a lot, considering previous statements.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e905	In my first post, I said that the members of the Government's political figures and the Progress Party should complain to the industry about the chaos they have created. We have followed the debate, and we have recorded that they are very pleased with their own efforts, with the exception of the Progress Party, which has now been open so much support party to the government that they also left the talk to the government party. When it comes to the processing of the allowance message, we received an insight into what happened in the negotiation room from the representative from the left. I'm not going into it, I think it's probably. But I noticed that he was happy with Knag Fylkesnes, he was perhaps less satisfied with others. I'm sure it's a compliment to the representative of Knag County. One of the points that made the Center Party unable to sit in that negotiating room was the need to have a new fiscal fee on fish. We thought that was completely wrong, and we didn't want to be on it. So it was also said that a little bit of an alternative looks. The first option we have come with is that we want to know the consequences of the policy. We've said, let's figure things out first, and then we decide. While you've done a lot of things here, you've done a lot of things, and then you've added a PS to the government: think about it. It's not like we're running politics in Norway, just as little as it's part of the democratic principle in Norway that one comes from a government party and asks the opposition to cease spreading insecurity. You don't have the right permissions to do this. The government and the plural party are responsible for this. It was also said that we're not very visible when it comes to what we mean about these changes. We think these are bad changes, we're voting against everyone in a bunch. We do not want to be in the direction of the fisheries policy that this puts forward. We want a different course, and we also want a more evidence-based and dialogue-based approach to fisheries policy than is the case today. One thing is not to take over a little bit of the rather massive criticism that comes from the Fishlayer, and at the top of it all, we have a Fisheries Minister who says that he is not the problem, it is the Fishlayer that is the problem. It's new, I think it's eye-catching, and there's a sign of a government that's saturated and satisfied with itself, and that doesn't seem to see that they've done a bad job in this case. I hope the case spokesperson in his last post can be a little bit more humble and say that maybe we should sort this out first, maybe we could do things better, but now let's take a foot in the ground and see how we can rock the stumps of what we've seen going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e920	I don't know if I want to disappoint or enjoy what I want to say. In any case, my party and I feel that the changes that lie here are not related to what has been criticised in the main part of the message. These are sensible proposals that should have been implemented regardless of whether you still had the current system, whether you had changed it, or if you had done exactly what's in the quota notification. In any case, I would like to say one thing: those who have followed the quota notification process know that these proposals are quality assurance and implemented in the same way as all other legislative proposals in this Chamber, both through a NOU, through a wholesale notification, through consultations and through normal quality assurance. There is nothing left in these matters. They are reasonable, and they should be implemented, simply in order to simplify and better align the map with the terrain. There I agree with the representative of Fylkesnes that it is important, and I think some of these proposals do, even if you want to disagree with some of them. I record that we have had a slightly special debate towards the end here, where one tries to say that one should cut someone off from thinking something about what others think. I think the important thing in this room is that we actually mean something about all the things we mean about, and the other thing means something about. That's what's called a debate. With that, I would say that for me, this case is concerned with the changes in the law that are actually to be made here. Finally, as the debate has now become, I feel a need to say that it is okay to criticise the uncertainty of a process, but at the same time it should be taken into account that there might have been elements in the system that created uncertainty and that became visible when the process was started. At the same time, I find it difficult to deal with a debate where, on the one hand, there are a number of proposals that create greater uncertainty for the individual operator, both in terms of the stability of the allocation of allowances and other elements, while at the same time criticising the uncertainty created. We can take a longer debate about that another time. Today, this was the case with these changes in the law. I strongly recommend them, because they are sensible, independent of political position and opinion on the allocation of resources or on the implementation of fisheries by what nature it should now be. This would make sense to do anyway. It will contribute to simplification and can make everyday life a little easier for those involved, and that the map is more consistent with the terrain.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e933	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e938	There is an inherent uncertainty in the fact that these things are not in the law, that a regulation is suddenly sent out on the phone. There are going to be a lot of regulations that are going to be sent out on the phone. Then a sudden look at whether this is the implementation of that policy. What has been shown in the past is that the implementation of the policy is not entirely in line with that of the Storing. One gets a discussion on discussion in discussion, and it becomes insecure and unreachable for the industry. I think it's unwise, and that's also the principle of the role of the Storting, but I've said that. If I'm going to move into what the representative is trying to describe some ambiguity about what the government wants here, I'm going to give a three-point list of what I can read as the opposition's common policy now: more to the part of the fleet contributing most to coastal and community value creation less concentration and less purchase and sale more to young people and women At all of these points, the government has a different policy, so there's a pretty clear difference that I can't see how the Horseman can't see, unless he doesn't see.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e957	First, I have to say that I record that the Labour Party, SVs and the Central Party's criticism of the bill is not about the content, but really most about the process. It's kind of okay, and it's probably related to the fact that the bill is a completely loyal follow-up to the Storting decision. I also want to say that of course I am positive with what has been said as an invitation from the opposition to look for common solutions. Then we have to find as broad a solution as possible in the Storting for things to come, and it is going to be abundant in opportunities to do within the fisheries policy. We have two icebergs that come across, one is called a relapse and a reassessment of structural quotas, and the other is the transition from the length of the base to the actual length, which should be a simplification of the fishing industry. I also have to say to the Stortinget, as questions have been asked about it, that I spend a lot of my time as a government council for dialogue with industry organisations and also with some fishermen. It is very important to have such a dialogue for, among other things, to find good solutions. Especially in the year that has passed, and in the year that we are in, in the case of corona, there is a need for close dialogue. I feel that the industry thinks it is very positive. It is also important to say that the Fiskarlag has always said that they want to postpone the quota notification. Some of the reason for my statement is that the Fiskerlag has an internal disagreement on how to distribute the fish resources, and that is well known. So it's very important from the government's point of view to facilitate and work so that we get more jobs and more value creation along the coast. That is why we want stability and predictability in the allocation of resources. This is important for business operators, and we have to work to keep up the good times in fishing. During the day I saw in the media that, according to the Central Bureau of Statistics – and I have all sorts of reservations that I have read incorrectly, but I read it well – the average salary for a Norwegian fisherman was NOK 900,000 in 2020. In any case, this is an expression of the fact that the fishing industry has been very successful. Converting that profitability into the further development of jobs and value creation is very important. Then it's getting more full-time jobs based on the possible potential eternal fishing resources we have, if we treat them properly and sustainably. Then it is to be a guarantor of the EEA Agreement and market access – all the tens of thousands of jobs. 15 000 in North Norway alone work in an extremely export-oriented industry. It is very important not to create uncertainty about market access and the EEA Agreement. And more to young people: yes, it is now implemented through additional allowances for all under 30 years of age in an open group — four tonnes this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e974	The representative Cecilie Myrseth has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e979	They say repeatedly that the Fiskarlag has always thought that the matter should be postponed. That's not true. It's actually wrong. We have had a hearing on this matter, and then the Fiskerlage got a direct question from me as to whether it should be postponed after the Riksrevisions report had arrived. The answer was no. That's just the way it is. The reason why what you mean now is that you have seen the result of the treatment. Then you can think that you shouldn't listen to a split layer of fish, or that you shouldn't listen to the opposition this time either, but the criticism is real, the frustrations are real, and the problems are real, whether you want to acknowledge it or not. I appreciate the fact that the Minister for Fisheries wants dialogue, but until now he has not exactly shown it. I can only refer to control matters or a notified aquaculture case or this case, where we have said several times that we should take a foot in the ground. The answer has also been no there.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e988	At the end of the debate, I would also like to touch on something that may not necessarily be included directly in the bill, and it was the representative of Knag Fylkesnes who inspired me to do so. But first I'll give the representative Cecilie Myrseth right. That's exactly what she says, it's not like the Fishlayer has always wanted to postpone the matter, and it's true that that's what was the answer to the question. So at least from this party, I got it fixed. What I want to use two words is equality in fisheries. When one sees an industry where such a large part of those involved in the industry actually owns their own company and own vessel, equality also has something to do with the long-term distribution of wealth and power relationships between women and men in this society. That means that one of the things I've been focusing on in the quota notification process is that we need a strategy for increasing equality in fisheries, and I hope that the whole room can help follow up. It was we who promoted that proposal in the context of the quota notification. That's why I feel it's a little unfair when I'm accused that we don't think about women in the fisheries and equality in the fisheries from our side. Actually, I do. One of the things that shows this concretely, was that until this government joined, it was in practice that if you had a child and took out full leave and breast-feeding, you would lose your status as an active fisherman and thus also lose much of the rights you had in the fisheries. It has changed during this period — a very important, little-known decision, which makes it easier for both sexes to take an active part in the fishing, creates the same assets as described, and also has the same rights in relation to, for example, a break in life, both of which may have the same rights to the wealth that they both have built up. In many cases, there are two who build this up, but the rights belong to only one, and it is important to continue working to make sure that it does not in the future, when my son grows up, is that it is 97 pst. men active in this industry who are owners. We should have the aim in Stortinget to ensure a better gender distribution. Of course, we may have different opinions about what kind of instruments are involved, but at least we have to make sure we get closer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e997	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1014	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1021	I promise that I will not use the same amount of my case rapporteur time in this case. Initially, I would like to thank the Committee on Cooperation in the matter. The proposal for a representative is to include in Section 4 of the Public Acquisitions Act a reference to the principle of safeguarding environmental, social and labour law, and to the equivalence of this with the existing principles of competition, non-discrimination, predictability, reprobability and proportionality in public acquisitions. This proposal is raised by a minority in the Committee. In the light of existing legislation and regulations and feedback from the Minister of Industry, the majority of the Committee has come to the conclusion that current legislation is comprehensive in this area. These include: Whereas, by means of regulations, these considerations are based on grounds of refusal in the case of public tenders; The judgment referred to in the proposal also applies — whether a breach of occupational environmental obligations can be a ground for rejection. It was established that it is within existing law, and since this is essentially a common European legislation, the judgment will also have an effect on Norwegian conditions. But, as I said earlier, this is already covered by Norwegian legislation. § 4 effectively assumes the obligations of the contracting entity vis-à-vis providers and ensures that they are treated fairly, fairly and in line with good business practices – in other words, the rules of competition in order to protect the provider from arbitrariness. The provision proposed here applies to something else, namely what the offers should contain, i.e. obligations or considerations that suppliers must respect in order to have a valid offer or not to risk rejection of the offer before it is properly assessed. In other words, the proposal modifies this paragraph from being a protection from suppliers to being a requirement for suppliers, thus creating a mutual tension in the provision. In this sense, we might see conflicts where a person wants to set aside the rules to achieve the interests or vice versa, as long as they are mixed together here, or actively said to equalize them. It is therefore important for me to say that the rules of the game must be firm and equal for all regardless of the reasons given in the tender specification. The proposers may feel that these are complementary, but since they are so different and can easily be drawn in different directions, it is appropriate to separate the rules of the game from the content and requirements of the supplier. In other words, Section 4 may not be the place this belongs to, if it should belong somewhere, but it can certainly get around. It is more challenging, however, that one would then be in a situation where this legislation would be divided between regulation and law, not only at level but also in terms of severity and significance. For example, many people wanted to do so. claiming that serious crime would be an equally serious obstacle to contract or that its absence could be an important prerequisite. Today, these provisions are grouped together at regulatory level. It provides a simpler overview, greater flexibility and shorter response time for the development of a regulatory framework. There may also be a point in this. But the most important thing is that these issues, considerations and grounds for rejection have already been addressed, and there is no doubt about it in Norwegian purchasing law, and then there is no need to make a new legal provision.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1036	The regulation of a market of 600 billion. kr, and this is important only in Norway. Therefore, the proposers here – and I am one of them – ask the government to consider amending Section 4 of the Public Acquisitions Act so that environmental, social and labour law considerations are equated with the basic principles of the Competition, Non-discrimination and Predictability Act, because it is important to be clear to all public tenderers that taking into account our common environment and facilitating companies that respect the rights and conditions of workers under which they work is important for companies to have a chance to compete for public contracts. I hear that there is no reason to legislate that the tenderers will take this into account when they are going to submit their tenders. Then I think there is reason to recall the diversity of public purchasers in Norway. One thing is the state and all the state companies. Another thing is the county councils. Then we have all the municipalities of the country and the municipal enterprises, ports and property companies, all of whom need to know that they need to facilitate that we take care of the common environment and labour law issues when they make their bids. I would also argue that the legalisation of such a requirement could strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian companies in which they compete with foreign companies, because Norwegian companies are good in environmental terms and good in caring for their employees. Whether it is a hospital to buy something or whether it is the competitiveness of Norwegian shipyards, Norwegian construction industry and Norwegian industry. I think Norwegian companies, in particular perhaps in a situation where we have 200,000 unemployed, have the right to expect the public in their acquisitions to do what they can to strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian companies. So to the socio-economic. If the legalisation of the requirements would be more effective for Norwegian companies to win the competition, it is that if you spend a billion in a Norwegian company, much more of that money will be left in Norway afterwards than if you give the same billion to a foreign company to deliver to the public. Then I think it's important that we, as a magnification, do what we can, and use the space of action that is, to legislate something that strengthens the competitiveness of Norwegian companies. I address the proposal of which the Workers' Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1049	The representative of Åsunn Lyngedal then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1054	For the Central Party, it's a goal that when a person spends 600 billion. kr to public procurement, would like to use it to govern society, a desire to use it politically to achieve some goals. It's like when you buy something, it becomes a very quick focus on price. One has a tight budget to stick to, and then the price is important. What we are doing in this proposal is that we want to make it harder to legislate on environmental, social and labour law matters and to simplify them legally. What surprises me a little in the criticism of the proposal is that one on the one hand says that this will have negative consequences, and on the other hand that there is no sense in this, because it already applies – so that's a little bit like what a bone should be on in the criticism. There is also a ruling from the Court of Justice of the European Union on these matters. We are concerned that it is assessed whether it gives Norwegian authorities increased scope for action to focus on a broader range of public procurement concerns. In this way, I am pleased that the Labour Party, the Centre Party and SV are united on a clear and clear proposal. I see that there aren't many people today, but there's definitely something that you want to work with.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1063	There is no doubt that it is important that public acquisitions are carried out in a sustainable manner. The green shift is the biggest challenge of our time, and the government will actively use public acquisitions to stimulate emissions reduction and green solutions. Acquisition legislation facilitates the adoption of key societal considerations such as climate and environmental considerations, social considerations and the fight against crime at work when purchasing goods and services from the public. The legislation was amended relatively recently. In the White Paper Smarter procurement – effective and professional public acquisitions, the government showed that there were several demands for social protection in the legislation. Let me use climate and environmental requirements in public procurement as an example. The Government will make public acquisitions an effective environmental policy instrument. The framework for climate-friendly and environmentally friendly public acquisitions is in place. We have both legal and regulatory provisions that require climate and environmental considerations to be taken into account in public acquisitions. The OECD has carried out an evaluation of the work on sustainable public procurement in Norway and their evaluation shows that Norway has a strong basis for sustainable acquisitions, in particular in view of the legal framework. With the legislation we have today, the government therefore believes that contracting authorities have a good starting point for making good acquisitions that contribute to climate reduction and that promote climate-friendly solutions. Then it is up to the contracting entities to use the operating space provided by the legislation. This requires all contracting authorities, more than 3000 in number, to have the necessary competence and capacity to carry out good and sustainable acquisitions. Here it is more to go on, as the 2019 Storing Message also shows. There is ongoing work in progress, including: in the Directorate for Administration and Financial Management, in order to facilitate the access of purchasers to the necessary competences. The pursuit of environmental, social and labour market considerations is well taken into account in procurement legislation. I therefore believe that the issues raised in the proposal are well covered in today's legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1078	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1083	The case at issue in the European Court of Justice, which is the background to the proposal, shows a room for action within the law on public acquisitions in order to require public purchasers to respect environmental, social and labour law conditions in the same way as other fundamental principles of non-discrimination. In the interior, Toten products produce scooters, but for very many years, Nav chose to buy scooters from China instead of from TOPRO, as they are also called, because those scooters were a little bit cheaper. Does the Council of State consider that it is likely that Norwegian enterprises will be more or less competitive in relation to other countries' enterprises, whose contracting entities are required to focus their acquisitions on environmental, employment and social aspects?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1092	I think it is absolutely essential that we are part of the internal market in the EU and that we compete in the same way as companies in the rest of that market. That means we have to stretch to be good at both price, environment and social conditions. It is the total here that the contracting entities may choose to claim in their orders. I am concerned that Norwegian producers must compete with European companies, and to the extent that companies in the rest of the world too. What I believe we have a potential for is the competence of the contracting entity. Here we think it's a lot to go on. I fully agree that too often the price is set as the most important criterion, and I believe that this is certainly not due to the legislation, but that you do not have the competence to use the space for action within the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1099	I thank you for the answer, but I would like to stress that the Minister said in his speech to the Chair that purchasers can choose to make demands on environmental and labour law matters. Is it really desirable to be in a situation where we depend on all the hundreds of buyers choosing it? I am aware that Norwegian companies must be competitive, but I repeat the question, because I do not think I got the answer: Is the Council of State of the opinion that Norwegian companies will be more or less competitive in relation to other countries' enterprises whose contracting entities are required to focus on environmental, employment and social conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1105	I still believe that Norwegian companies are best served to be competitive in a European market. They have to stand up with competitors in the rest of the world. But I also trust that our municipal government representatives, whether from the Left or from the Workers' Party, are concerned about climate, environment and social conditions. As a state, we are also concerned about what we are demanding. Here are the possibilities, the space for action is large. That's why I mean the job that, among other things. DFØ is now making it possible for contracting entities to exploit the space for action that is there is so important. I fully agree that it is important to demand, for example. climate and environment in acquisitions, because it helps to move us forward. When Norwegian and foreign companies have to compete for jobs that also require climate and environment, it is not only good for the Norwegian company, it is good for the world and Europe that we get better in climate and environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1110	I notice that the Minister is not willing to use his room for action, namely to use the law to impose emphasis on the environment, labour law and social conditions. It has been possible for several years to focus on our common environment under the Public Acquisitions Act, but it does not continue to do so. Many municipalities and county councils have chosen to focus on proper employment in acquisitions, sometimes called the Telemark model, but not all purchasers do the same. Then is my question to the Council of State: does the Council of State assume that a law on claims would lead to the maintenance of all municipalities, county councils, port companies and other purchasers, perhaps to a greater degree, of environmental considerations and consideration of how those carrying out the acquisition would be taken into account when making their tenders?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1117	I probably have a slightly different starting point than the representative has on this, because it is clear from our legislation that this is consideration that is possible to enter into a mission when the nature of the mission indicates that it is natural. So I'm busy using the action space we have, where I think it's going to have the greatest effect. I believe that the most important thing we do now is to increase the competence of those who are actually going to order. I'm a lawyer myself. I myself have worked on this code. I know how complicated it is, and out there we have thousands of contracting authorities. It is clear that some people have more experience, and some people have a greater base of competence to draw on good tenders in the field of public procurement law. I believe that where we can get the most out of the resources we have, it is by enabling more people to see what the space for action is, both in terms of innovation, in terms of climate, and in terms of social conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1124	I thank you for the answer, which I guess I feel that I really don't get. Like the Council of State, I'm a lawyer. I have been a municipal lawyer in Narvik Municipality for many years and worked according to this law, and I find it sad to see, when the social partners, Works and LO, also made written observations on this and said that it is important that we get a law enforcement because it is so difficult to get a proper focus on the environment – labour law matters. Then I wonder if the minister actually believes that the law of these essential reasons could harm.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1135	I believe that what makes it difficult for them to focus on it is not whether this is mentioned in Section 4 or Section 5 of the Act, because our legislation opens up to take these considerations, and our legislation facilitates that contracting entities can take these considerations into account. So when they don't, it's not because the law doesn't facilitate it, it's because someone chooses not to – and that's maybe what the representative wants to get alive. It may also be because it does not fit in with the assignment they are going to have – it will of course happen from time to time – or because they do not know how to do it within the regulatory framework without risking getting out crooked. I think we have many sponsors out there who can benefit from increased competence and more guidance, and that is what the DFØ is also spending its time on, to enable them to better use the space of action that the regulation actually provides.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1140	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1147	This case reveals a political laxity on the right – political laxity. Because it would have been the way the right side claims that it is, that this is taken care of in the law, that everything is in its best order, it wouldn't have been that many people now ask us to tighten the law. The council is wrong when she says that this is well taken care of, because all too often we see that the price is what determines when the public order is made. It tells local entrepreneurs, it tells us the craftsmen, and it tells us the tradesman movement. Much of the problem is that the issue of environment and working life is not equated with normal competition rules. § 4 describes the basic principles of the law, and there are stressed conditions of competition, but we believe that social conditions should be equated with these. These are the serious companies, the workers in these companies, who are asking for the Stortinget and the politicians to take action. There are many people around who want to take responsibility, and there are many places where serious demands are adopted that contribute well, but there are too many cracks, and some do not go far enough. Therefore, if we come into government, the Workers' Party will work out a national model of seriousness – not the diffi model, but a strong model in which we take the best from the best in the different models around. However, I believe that in many places there are no seriousity requirements below the thresholds. There's a lot of unprofessionality. Assignments that could and should have gone to the local craftsman companies today go far too far to unprofessional ones. The working party has therefore indicated that there must also be serious requirements below the thresholds and that quality can be competed over price. Both Mr López and Mr Sópez support the proposal which is being discussed today. The right-hand side doesn't. We believe it could have contributed to a further cleanup. We're not getting through to that, but now we've written the proposal. It is clear and waiting for the day when a red-green labour minister comes to the office and can implement new policies from day one. It'll be the turn of the workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1162	In this matter, I am disappointed, but unfortunately not surprised, either by the rejection by the Right, the Progressive Party, the Left or the Christian People's Party of the Workers' Party's proposal that environmental, social and labour law should be treated in the same way as the other fundamental principles through an amendment to Section 4 of the Acquisition Act. The right-hand parts do not deny themselves. According to the Council of State, the state of things is very well – everything is good with the regulation of public acquisitions. It is possible, but as proposers, we believe that in this case the legislation should be made even clearer and used better. For if everything is all right, then why can we at Tend 365 read the following statement from NITO, dated 1 February 2021: ‘An independent legal review must be carried out with a view to the possibility of placing public missions in the Norwegian yard, i.e. a review of the action space in public acquisitions. This is one of the requirements of NITO in order to achieve the marine industry's survival in a critical pandemic time.» Or why does the Regional Director of the NHO Viken Oslo find the same place to say that ‘[p]ri’s trumps quality when making public acquisitions’? Or why does Ecocrim highlight on its websites the report of the National Inter national Analysis and Intelligence Centre on Labour Crime from 2020, where the underpayment of foreign workers in public projects and public acquisitions is two out of four areas in which it has been examined? We can, among other things: read that the underpayment of non-resident workers has been revealed in several public works projects in recent years. First-line defence against a-krim is an organised working life, supported by a good control system and investigation of the illegal conditions discovered. Unfortunately, the government is lukewarm to both. The number of employees in the Labour Inspectorate is below the 2016 level. Reviews are too often made. The second line should be a conscious attitude of public purchasers, with far greater emphasis on labour market legislation than today. The government buys $600 billion. kr a year, and a large part of this happens in counties and municipalities. My own municipality, Drammen, is acting, for example. for 3 to 3.5 billion only. kr per year. In the report on a-krim from 2020, we find that 820 businesses that have had deliveries to municipalities of over 30 billion. DKK over four years, may be linked to offences. What about what's not revealed? Back to NITO: an independent assessment of the possibility of placing public assignments in Norwegian companies is needed. A change in Section 4 of the Acquisition Act could be a good place to start.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1182	I am a little surprised at parts of the debate. I felt that it was produced as if it was only possible to place such requirements as have been outlined here, in tenders, and that it was not required. But it is actually required, for example: through Section 5 of the same law, i.e. the paragraph right under the one we are now discussing, including all state, county and municipal authorities, public-law bodies, etc. are required to take account of the climate and promote climate-friendly solutions. According to Section 6 of the same Act, there is an opportunity to provide for rules on pay and working conditions in public contracts, including: in construction contracts. This is done, that regulation is there, and you're imposed a certain level and a standard attached to this. The examples provided here are, in many cases, examples of breaches of existing legislation. It has the premise that those who are willing to break today's legislation should not be as willing to break future legislation. That is, after all, all that is involved in breaking the law. The undersigned has a background as a purchaser, and I have to say that I have a major problem recognizing myself in parts of the description given by public procurement and public purchasers here in the hall. Public purchasers are mainly people, just like us, and place the same emphasis on other people's working conditions, climate and environment as we do. They are also good at incorporating these requirements into the specifications for the tenders. Where sometimes the debate becomes a little difficult, I think, it is wrong that a tender should only be considered after weighting the criteria after all the requirements have been met. We saw it, for example. in connection with the debate on train tenders here in this Chamber. The main part of ensuring that a bus operates on environmentally friendly or zero-emission fuel is to require the bus to be provided to run on zero or low-emission fuel. If you order a diesel bus, the weight will anyway give you a diesel bus. Therefore, it is important to look at the whole of this, and my experience of this is that it is not the law it says here. That is also what was said by the organisations in connection with the process of the notification: it is in fact in the actual control of the performance of the contracts and whether the conditions laid down in the specifications of the requirements are actually met, it has failed in most cases, including in the examples mentioned here from the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1195	It is quite right that there is a lot of determination in the requirement specifications. If there is no environment or work life in the requirement specifications, there is nothing to consider; it is quite right. But you can't ignore the weight completely. In cases where one is in the choice between environment, work life, seriousness and that type of thing, and it is clear how it should be weighted, and it is laid down in the requirements specifications, it will be of great significance. So one has to kind of go into both sides of the equation, both on the scale and in the description before. At best, public procurement is a machine for innovation, for the environment and the big commitments we face, and for creating a better and more serious working life, against social dumping, etc. At its worst it undermines just these things. I'm going to say that today we have a mix. There's no one here that can say with hands on the heart that we have a system that's an engine for positive change, such a big change as we actually want. I don't think anyone can say that. I think all of us are certain that we have a system that largely adds up to more or less the status quo. The shelf metaphor is one example. Public buyers refuse very much to go to the purchase of very innovative things, something that is not a shelf product, which is not an established solution or product already. Sure one, like, for example. a bus company here in Oslo did, goes to the purchase of a very innovative solution for tickets, and then it turns out to go in the sink, sit one in the gap. And one doesn't have a system to compensate to bet on innovative solutions. It's only dark on that side. So a very common shelf product ends up in Norway, and the shelf products are small in Norway. What the NHO and the social partners in general are all about is that the more one infiltrates the system of environmental, serious and social considerations, the more of the tasks will come to Norwegian actors. But it'll cost a lot more. So then a different kind of mechanism has to be created that makes a take a higher cost in the public. Probably a few will get a wave of much higher costs at the beginning, before one finally gets a more competitive Norwegian business. That's what we in SV suggest that we do, that we use public procurement as an engine to convert the Norwegian economy, knowing that it will actually cost more. Because even though a constant price is good for public finances, it's only in the short term. In the longer term, all people, including industry, will be aware that public procurement will generate more targeted public procurement, and then one must be willing to pay the price for it. I take up the proposal from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1211	The representative of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1216	I have to agree with the representative Knag Fylkesnes when he says this is about steering society in the direction we want. It's about using public acquisitions as an engine to create the future society we're going to have. I believe that I and the representative Nilsen read Section 5 of the Public Acquisitions Act differently, because it is clear in the second paragraph that environmental requirements can be imposed. The maritime communication from the government, which we are currently examining in the Committee, states that the government will consider setting climate requirements from 2023. It is a shame that it has not been done in state acquisitions a long time ago — even if it is done in some. Environmental considerations may be taken into account. We believe that our common environment is so important that it has to be done. That's why we want to legislate. We also believe that the workforce, those who are actually going to produce this acquisition, is so important that emphasis is to be placed on it. I think the minister underestimates those who make public procurement, when she says that with just a little bit more training they will understand their room for action. A lot of public bodies are in a bad economic situation, but if we say they're actually going to focus on these considerations, it's clear that they're able to do it. This case shows a big difference between today's government parties and the opposition in the will to use politics to govern society. I regret that one is not willing to legislate for these important reasons, also because it will strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian companies. Because we're good at the environment, we're good at labour law, and it's better social economy that we spend the money on buying something from Norwegian companies than from foreign companies. It must be strange to be a Minister of Industry who believes that the competitiveness of Norwegian companies is not an objective one can try to facilitate within a law. Right-wing policy is at its worst when it does not even want to address socio-economic considerations. I think Norwegian small and medium-sized enterprises should note this case and the unwillingness of government parties to use policies when making their choice for the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1227	Now I was frankly a little disappointed – it reminds me of an advertisement once in a while. But that is: we have passed this law in this room, and we are the ones who have actually both ordered the basis for it and made the decision that lies there. It is not possible to take the second term into a law and say that it is therefore not what is stated in the law. I don't think that's a good idea. We have adopted this law, and then I expect that we believe that we cannot leave an impression of them out there that we do not believe what we have legalized. The first thing in this paragraph of law to which reference was made is: ‘State, county and municipal authorities and bodies governed by public law shall set up their procurement practices to help reduce harmful environmental impacts and promote climate-friendly solutions.’;» So it's called shell. In addition, it is open to have regulations to do this, and it also says ‘shall’. I think, frankly, that when we produce laws that we ourselves have adopted, we should at least try to produce them the way we have adopted them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1237	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1254	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1263	As the rapporteur, I would first like to thank the Committee for its work on cleaning up Folldal mines. Although we have our differences, we have in common that we are impatient to resolve the situation related to pollution from mining. Everyone will stop the contamination of tons of metals to the eleven Folla as soon as possible. The fact that an aggregate increase wants the fastest possible solution in this matter is both important and correct and a signal to the government to prioritize this matter. For 245 years, the mining industry in Folldal brought life to the countryside. It gave many opportunities for paid work and the freedom it gives. Mining not only brought with it jobs, it was also built up a community around mining. From the 1700s until the downturn, large parts of the population were engaged in mining for shorter or longer periods. Mining was involved in the development of the countryside and the surrounding countryside. The company was closed down in 1993. Today, Folldal is mining a tourist destination and an important cultural memory that testifies to the time when the mines employed as many as 550 people at most. Unfortunately, Folldal's proud industrial history is now also a work for people living in the areas around, and for nature, which is strongly characterized by years of draining copper, zinc, iron and sulphate. Metal emissions are clearly visible along the empty river Folla, and mining areas have the largest remaining discharge of heavy metals into fresh water in Norway. I mean, it's urgent to clean up. It has taken a long time, and I notice that the proposalers from the Workers' Party and SV as well as the Central Party believe that the government has been too passive in this matter. It is then good to remind them that they had government authority since 2005, when the final decision of the Ministry of Environment stated that the State had to clean up the pollution problem in Folldal. They were in majority government for eight years, until 2013, but they didn't solve the case either. The Directorate for Mineral Management has been involved in monitoring, sampling and carrying out investigations since 2006. The work is complicated and several methods of cleaning up have been excluded on the road. The results of the extensive work done in the area over many years were to be delivered to the Minister of Industry during 2020. It gives us hope that soon we will get a solution to the pollution in Folldal. It is also good to know that important cultural history in Folldal, represented by Folldal Works and the surrounding areas, is to be protected, and that the work of the Riksantikvar is under way. Of course, these processes must also be seen in the context, and we look forward to an update of the clean-up work to be done in the revised budget for 2021. Folldal and the surrounding areas deserve a final solution to this matter, and we owe future generations to take care of nature and culture in Folldal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1278	Thank you to the President-in-Office for a good presentation. This is one of the major environmental issues in mainland Norway, with the largest remaining emissions of heavy metals to fresh water. We have a good history in our country of solving concrete environmental problems. Whether it is acidic watercourses or industrial emissions in several fjords, there are actually many environmental problems that have been solved today. We're going to do that with this problem too – solve it together. The pollution in Folldal has two extremely important principal aspects for the Storting to be aware of. The first is that in this case there is one department, the Ministry of Climate and Environment, which has ordered the Ministry of Industry to clean up. One reason why people in Folldal and the community are so impatient and require action is that when individuals are charged with the same type of tasks from the authorities, or to the extent that local authorities, action is expected within a reasonable time. The state must, of course, also have the same guidelines for itself as it imposes on others, both individuals and communities. The other principle aspect that is important for the Storting to think about in a larger context and in the future is that at Stortinget we also want to contribute to the exploitation of the mineral resources we have in Norway, to new industrial activities and value creation. However, in order for local communities to be confident that they do not take on a large future risk of pollution, the state must be a reliable cleaner by itself. This is why this is a concrete matter both of the perception of the credibility of the authorities and of the credibility of the authorities in future mining cases. Then, as the case-rapporteur said, there is absolutely reason to admit that here both the Storting over several years and changing governments have had the opportunity to start work earlier. That is why it is so good that we now get the matter lifted together. Here is the Minister of Industry with a very good opportunity, and at the top of it all, there is a colleague from the same party sitting in the Ministry of Climate and Environment, so I hope that the government will give priority to this matter. I expect that we will get a case up before either the revised national budget or as part of the revised national budget, with a plan for how to solve it, and how to finance work. This is the proposal from the red-green side today, of which the Workers' Party is part, and which I take up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1291	Then the representative of Nils Kristen Sandrøen mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1296	This is an important issue locally, regionally and nationally, and it has taken too long to clean up. I'm also a little worried about what this ongoing protection process will mean progress in clean-up. Here I think it's important that one can run the two processes in such a way that they work together, and without costing the cleaning work. I said that it's taken too long, and it's on the verge of a little sweet, this new habit that's now right, the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have added, that they regret all the things they haven't done in the last eight years, saying that the government should have done it before. It might remind you a little bit of the rule that is in certain adventures: Don't point at me, point at my brother, he's bigger. Pointed at Stoltenberg II, they were before me in this. At the same time, it is apparent that since 2006, one has been monitoring the sources of pollution, so it has been a work in progress. I think the most important thing now is that you get a recognition that this has taken too long, and that now you have to move on – that one is more busy than being in debt to others, as one think should have done the job 10 or 15 years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1305	I have been engaged in this matter for many years. It's one of the most serious contaminants we've ever had. So it's a rock-dead river, and it's been a long time. There's a lot of emissions. This has been prioritised down over a long time, and I have wondered very much what has really happened in this matter for the long time this has been going on. Many people have been held responsible over the years, and why this has been allowed to continue, I have wondered many times. I think that for some of the other rivers, or the other places that have experienced pollution, one has in a way remembered that there was life in the river, that it was healthy nature. But here it's been so long since I think those who have worked with, for example. hunters’ and fishermen’s organisations or nature protection organisations, which have almost given up. I am very pleased that the community up in Folldalen is not giving up, because it is important to get this right, and the state is responsible. This year-long sign of who it is that is going to do it has been going on not only between the government and the government, but also clearly between the government departments. So it would have been very nice if the Minister of Industry could now say something about the Ministry of Industry's responsibility in this matter, because that's what the Department of Industry is responsible for cleaning up this pollution in the future. Then I read from the setting that everyone kind of acknowledges the seriousness of the matter, everyone acknowledges the need to clean up the matter. But it is also a little important that the Council of State can now inform the Council of the progress of the work under the direction of the Directorate of Mineral Management and the Riksantikvar. Because the experience through all these rounds that have been going on for so long is that you point to an investigation here, and then you point to an investigation there, and then you look forward to that work, and when that work comes, there are other things that kind of have more attention. I hope that the Council of State can now give us a clear assurance that she will follow up on this work, hopefully give us a status on where that work is, and a clear promise of a prioritisation of this matter. For mining pollution in the Folldalen and in Folla has been going on for so long now, and it is such a fantastic area that it will be a great advantage not only locally or regionally, but also nationally, that this is being cleaned up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1316	As far back as 1988, the State's pollution control agency presented an action plan to reduce copper run-off from the ten most polluted mining areas in our country. Folldal Gruver was together with several other old sulphide ore mines among these mines. They dominated Norwegian mining through approx. 350 years, from the start of Fired copperworks in 1630 to the closure of Folldal Gruver in 1993. The area we're talking about here, at Folldal Center, has Norway's largest remaining discharge of heavy metals into fresh water. Each year, about 15 tonnes of copper, 10 tonnes of zinc, 200 tonnes of iron and 1000 tonnes of sulphate are poured into the river Folla, which is Glomma's third largest bee. The administration of Folla also significantly affects Glomma. So that part of the area that contributes to the greatest pollution is the country's home-fall areas. Therefore, anti-pollution measures were imposed on the country in 2003 and the deadline for the implementation of the obligation was in 2010, i.e. More than 10 years ago. In 2015, a report proposed the coverage of the areas that generate the most run-off. In 2018, the Riksantikvaren announced the start of a rescue process for the mining area. It has an impact on which environmental measures can be implemented. The problem here is that the removal of masses and the covering and flooding of mines is little relevant for the mine in the Folldal Centre. This is due not only to the cultural heritage of the old mining plant, but to the fact that large parts of the Folldal centre are built on mines. The Directorate for Mineral Management's latest option of removing masses in the most polluted area, covering and restoring the cultural landscape does not provide a definitive solution to the pollution. Over the 15 years since the legislation on pollution was passed, no overall implementation plan has been worked out. The state of today in eleven Folla is contrary to the pollution law imposed in 2005. When private enterprises are given similar orders, it is expected that clean-up will be carried out, but this is where the country itself is responsible for cleaning up, and then a much stronger priority will be needed as well as follow-up of the imposed. What Red requires is that the state assumes responsibility for and is now continuing to clean up both in Folldal and in other mining communities where runoff poses an environmental problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1331	Initially, I would like to stress the need to implement measures in Folldal. At the same time, it is important to take into account other relevant interests and make use of experience from other similar processes. It's been shown to take time, but hopefully it's going well in the process. The former mining activity in Folldal covers large areas and measures to reduce pollution will be complex. Since 2006, the Directorate of Mineral Management with the Bergmeister for Svalbard – DMF, which we often call them, has been monitoring sources of pollution, investigations and pilot projects in order to test current environmental measures. Cleaning work has taken some time, including: as a result of the natural complexity of solving the pollution problem. Before any major action is taken, it has been important for the DMF to gain experience from the extensive environmental measures carried out on Löken Werk. The Riksantikvaren sent, as several have mentioned in the debate so far, a notice on the preservation of Folldal Works in the autumn of 2018. In Folldal, therefore, there are now two parallel processes, a peace process under the Culture Memory Act and the follow-up of pollution control directives. Environmental studies show that, in particular, the rocks in the upper mining area are at the heart of pollution. However, this area is also covered by the National Antiquities Protection Notice. Both the municipality and the Riksantikvaren have signalled the need for more information on the consequences of any coverage. Therefore, DMF initiated an opportunity study in collaboration with municipal and state actors, and in general, we see that the options that provide the best environmental impact can be at the expense of cultural memories. Mining pollution is generally complex issues requiring tailor-made solutions with local adaptations. DMF will now start work on creating a comprehensive action plan. However, there are different considerations that need to be weighed against each other in this case and the costs of implementing the measures in question are uncertain. In other words, it is too early to draw up a conclusion in the revised national budget of 2021. On behalf of the government, I am so committed to what is recommended by the nutrition committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1346	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1351	I think there was a little different input into the rapporteur's posts and into the Council of State. In the speech to the case rapporteur, I heard more of a desire to carry out the job, while in the posts of the Council of State I have to say that it was more problematic that it could be bad and difficult, so here we have to have a little clarification. Governments are now negative that something's going to happen in RNB. First of all, we have to get a clear answer to it if it is not to come in the RNB: when is it to come? This is, as mentioned, the largest source of contamination of heavy metals in mainland Norway, so I would like to know. When is the Council of State looking forward to doing something concrete in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1357	I don't feel that there are any inequalities in the sense that we both want to clean up this, but I'm busy giving the Storting a realistic picture of what we're talking about here. As the representative himself was in his post, this has taken a very long time. It's not because of a lack of will. It's because it's a complex matter, and then there's two aspects that are partly contradictory. The best environmental measures, which, as far as I understand, are to cover these mountains, are those that can also go across the cultural heritage disciplines. Therefore, this is something we need to work on further, and they are now starting work on this action plan. But I can't now stand here on Stortinget's pulpit and say when it's done, and I won't throw blues in the eyes of Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1362	Here, the Minister of Economic Affairs, in our opinion, has a golden opportunity, because I might like to ask questions about whether the Minister of Economic Affairs can point to a continental pollution problem that, by today's date, is greater than the Folldal mine pollution. Since the Council of State represents a party that likes to emphasise that one is concerned about the environment, I believe that the Minister of Industry has a very good case if she had taken action. My first question will then be whether the Minister of Industry knows about some major pollution issues in mainland Norway, and secondly whether the Minister of Industry now sees his role as acting during the summer period or problematizing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1367	The representative adapts his question in a very good way, because, as the representative knows, the biggest clearance after mining is now in progress in Svea – not on the mainland, but on Svalbard. There are different things going on in the mainland too, but it's Svea that's the biggest cleanup we've got right now. What's important to know in this case is that there's complexity that makes it take time. It is not a lack of will or money as such that it takes time. There are two conflicting reasons that stand against each other. There are several actors that need to be involved in this way. There's progress in the work, but I can't stand here and say when it's going to be done, because that's something I per now don't know.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1372	I have the clear opinion that the Riksantikvar is positive that it will be completely possible and realistic to carry out the clean-up that will get control of the emissions. It's probably true, as the Council of State says, that it has been perceived as a contradiction, but the Riksantik product is clear that it is feasible. Then we're back to the money question, because here's the government council, through what's written in the setting, really both a marshaller and a great opportunity with the Storting in its back. Then I am a little surprised that not the Council of State Nybø will be the minister who can later actually say that this I helped to implement when I was responsible – it went right over 30 years after the imposition was given in 1990, but the Council of State Nybø got settled. Wouldn't that be a better input than problematizing?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1377	Yes, I'm not going off the road to present myself as better than, for example. other business ministers who have had the Labour Party, but I am more concerned about doing something than how I see myself. I am pleased to hear that the representative has such a good dialogue with the Riksantikvarn, that this is going to be all right. I also know that DMF has good dialogue with the Riksantikvaren and with the municipality that is planning authority, so here are several actors who need to find solutions together. My experience is like the representative's that it is a willingness to try to do this, but there are complex issues – both to define the environmental problem while preserving cultural memories. It works well, but I can't now say when they're done with that job.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1382	In this case, I think it is absolutely necessary that the Council of State engages with sea, has contact with both the Riksantikwaren and the directorate, for she says it is not a lack of will, but somewhere there must be a plug in this matter. It is clear that there are conflicting interests, but there is no doubt that this pollution has been depleted, and that it must be somewhere, even in the management systems that are going to deal with this matter, perhaps because it is difficult, perhaps because it is expensive. But that is absolutely necessary. My first question is: Will the Council of State personally commit itself to this matter in order to resolve it and get a progress that suggests that the cleaning has actually been started?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1389	As others have been involved, also the representative Andersen in his post, this has taken time. A lot has happened in these years, but it feels like little has happened, because it's been so long. I can't answer exactly what happened during all the other government councils before me, but I can say that in 2020, when I was Minister of Industry, the opportunity study that was worked with the Riksantikvaren and local authorities came in place. I can say that DMF is now starting work on the action plan, so there is a progress, that something is happening in this case, I'm sure, but there are complex issues. The fact that we should be on the floor of Stortingen and in a way guarantee that now the coverage begins – there are several actors who need to be involved. But that something happens, that there's progress in the matter, that's important to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1394	Yes, there are many who are involved, and that is why I ask the Council of State to engage personally in the matter. The second is that when the government now says that they will not come up with a solution in the revised version, they should at least report back to the Stortinget in the revised version of the actual work in the case. It is important now that the whole Storting feels obliged to do something about it, and then it is important that we get that information directly. And then I have a specific question in the end. After I've been informed by Folldal, the directorate is now working with only one method, i.e. coverage as the only method, to stop the pollution, sail about 50 pst. the run-off comes from the mines. Does this bring correctness?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1401	As far as I understand it, covering up these vaults is what is the most effective measure to prevent environmental pollution, but it is a little in conflict with the interests of protection, so what is going to stand in this plan of action, I do not yet know, for that work is to start with them now. The Storting can ask me any questions at any time, but the Storting does not today adopt this proposal from, among other things. The representative, and this is how I will of course evaluate myself when I find it appropriate to inform a whole big deal. But any representative is welcome to ask questions if they want regular updates on how the work is.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1406	Yes, I am aware that the proposal will not be adopted, but that is why I ask the Council of State whether it may be appropriate to consider coming back to Stortinget with such a cancellation, just to show that it is progress in the matter, and as I say, just to make a contribution to the fact that the matter is so timely for the whole of Stortinget that you are willing to follow up. I am also quite sure that this is going to cost some money, which the government will need support to get implemented. But that's absolutely necessary, because this is a pollution issue that has almost gone into the forgetbook, at least nationally, sail if it's a huge national matter. I have a question for the last time I asked – this is about saying that covering is the best method. If that's like 50 pst. of the run-off coming from the mines, this may not be sufficient. Will the State Council investigate whether further action will be taken?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1413	I think the question to the representative really shows how complex this matter is. It's kind of not just one thing, and then we're done with this. There are different environmental challenges, and there are different protection challenges, so this is a complex issue, and that is what has taken a long time. However, I do not fully agree with the representative, who says that this matter has gone into the forgotten book. In any case, I do not experience it, as the Minister of Industry and with it also the Directorate of Mineral Management with the Bergmeister of Svalbard. I feel that this is a matter that lies ahead, that it's being worked on, that you're aware of, and I think that's important, because it's a big challenge. I agree with those who have said that there have to be more people on the track, this takes so long, here there might have to be money in place at some point. It is right for me to assess when I think it is natural to inform, but I will consider when I think it is natural to inform.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1419	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1438	At the request of the Business Committee, the allocated speaking time in the debate will be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes, and the President will organise the debate as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Christian Party 5 minutes, Green Party 5 minutes and Red 5 minutes. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after the main speakers of the parties and six lines of response after contributions from members of the Government. In addition, those who have to sign up for the speaker list in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1449	I want to start by thanking the committee. We have worked well and for a long time on this matter, and it is a matter that has received a lot of attention. That's not so nice. The daily food industry is in many areas our most important industry – from the fisherman, the farmer and the commodity importer via the food industry, distributors and to countless traders and merchants. So there are thousands of people who have their work and get their daily bread in this chain of values. Some people like to get more bread in competition than others, but as long as a competition is good, healthy and fair, we have no problem with it. The challenge is that in this industry competition is not always good enough. Over time, power has become more and more concentrated, fewer actors have become, and there have also been slippages in the industry that make yesterday's models not necessarily fit today's reality. It's also one of the most important industries, because it's about your and my survival being directly linked to the fact that there's food on the table, and that your and my health depend on the fact that there's quality products we can put on the food table. The vast majority of industries have to deal with a set of regulations — including the daily food industry. There may be quality control, competition supervision, standards, import rules, Norwegian agricultural policy, trade leakage — there is a lot to keep track of. There should also be robust supply chains, which we have not least seen the importance of soon throughout the last year. The supply chain of groceries is essential for the safety of the population. Fortunately, we have seen that this part of the preparedness is good, robust and functioning, even in an acute crisis. It has, of course, been different description of reality when we have now met different actors in the industry through the work on this communication. The stories have broken, but one thing they have in common. There is a close consensus that competition is not good enough. It is not good for consumers or for those who do not compete on equal terms. We have a competition law in Norway, and we also now have a law on good trade practices. These two, together with wise and firm enforcement, are among the most important tools available to society to improve competition. There are voices that claim that there has been too little or too little focus on the industry over time, but at least it is a fact that both political attention and supervision from the authorities have increased considerably in recent times, and that is good. Today we can say that you and I don't get the sample we should, and we don't pay the price we're going to. The paper on the daily food industry contains good descriptions and a number of measures, and I am pleased that all the measures will be unanimously approved by the Committee. Furthermore, the Committee has further strengthened the tone in some areas, and before we split up today, we have adopted measures that will improve competition for the benefit of the consumer, i.e. you and me. I will come back to some of the proposals later in the debate, and it is possible – a little depending on today's debate – that more of the proposals will have an even wider majority than the vote shows. In any case, I now take up the proposals of the government parties, and then we come back to any explanations of vote later. However, it is a point for the government parties that today's proposals that are adopted are based on the fact that we already have good legislation and that intensifications and measures that are now being taken are being carried out within the existing legislation. The daily food industry is complex. In the comments, the Committee well describes both culture and complexity. Several of the measures are orders for or alerted matters and investigations, and now that this area has received increased attention, I also believe it is important to recognise that this industry is in such a rapid development that power shifts rapidly, and that industry, border trade, agricultural policy, trends and unforeseen events require constant political attention and good supervision in the years to come. What is obvious today may be out of date tomorrow. In this field, we must continue to give the industry the attention it has now received and that the industry needs and will need. We need diversity – in store shelves, but also in the industry. Today, power is concentrated, and we cannot allow it to become much more concentrated without having to look at even more interventional measures. We pay too much, and we have too little to choose from. We do trade too much abroad, at least when the borders are open, and one of the reasons is that competition is not good enough. This is a long-term and laborious work, but today’s report improves the situation. But as several of today's proposals for decisions show: this is a work that will have to continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1468	The representative of Kårstein Eidem Løvaas has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1475	I agree with a lot of what the rapporteur said, and I would also like to thank the rapporteur for the fact that, through the committee procedure, we have been relatively consulted on a number of important points. But there are also some points we don't agree on yet. It may be that the government parties are coming after during the debate. After I understood the rapporteur, he was going to explain a little bit about perhaps a few more majority proposals later on. One proposal that has a minority in the vote, but for which we have a majority in the Stortinget, if the vote is adopted, is a proposal from the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party, which addresses the main issue that has actually been in place since 2011, with dominant actors or suppliers. There is the Progress Party, the Workers' Party and SV very clearly that there is a need for a factual justification, etc., and that it must come out as a clear – let us say – notified to the Competition Authority of its follow-up. It won't be on the right. I wonder why.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1482	I am pleased that the representative of Aasland asks that question. The parties to the government have a separate proposal in the vote, proposal No. 11, which covers part of the proposal to which he refers, namely proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and SV. It is important for the government parties, as I said in my speech, that the proposals adopted today relate to the existing legislation and legislation, and do not trigger any legislative changes. So I want to answer the representative with some kind of question, if he gets the opportunity to answer it, either down here, or from the other speaker: if the precondition for the proposers is that this proposal is a tightening up and a marshalling earth – we can call it that – to the Competition Authority, but within today's legislation, it is definitely a proposal that the government parties can assess during today's debate whether one can stand behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1489	I can stress that we have not proposed any legislative changes, but we have a clarification of how we perceive that already existing law is to be understood, and how we believe that it should be followed up. Then it looks like you can also get a very broad solution to that proposal. It's okay to sign it out in the course of the debate. We have also mentioned several things that it would have been okay to agree on. One thing that has been demanding, and that we know is to prevent competition, is access to premises. There's the minority, the Workers' Party together with SV and the Center Party, a message to the government to look at this. Right is not included. I wonder why the Right does not want to be part of such a proposal, which is really about exploring access to premises, which is an important part of finding competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1496	I want to refer to the message, which describes the challenge in terms of both premises and how some actors dominate in the property industry as well. The way government parties see it is the description, how the message raises that issue, probably as of today. As I said in my main post, this is a business where things move all the time, where power shifts all the time, where the challenges move all the time, so it might well be this is something you have to come back to later. However, there is a very comprehensive list of government orders in addition to the measures already contained in the communication. We believe that it is now more important to get those processes started and target them, so you better get back to it if you need a sharper claw in that area later on.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1503	I would like to begin by thanking the President-in-Office for the job that has been done with this message. And then I'll point out the recommendation from Committee II, like the Workers' Party, the Progress Party, the Center Party, and the SV, about an arithmetical and functional distinction between the joints in the value chain in the daily food industry. This is a proposal Right is not included. Later today, we are going to debate a matter in Stortinget where the Right is very busy with a functional separation, just before the Internet company. Then my question is: why did the representative not think it is a good idea that one has an accounting and functional distinction between the joints in the value chain in the daily food industry, when he opens up that it is within other industries?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1510	It's pretty easy to answer. We believe that, firstly, this proposal will be very bureaucratic, and secondly, in the large enterprises in the industry, this distinction has already been made. I think if the representative Pollestad goes back to his basic farm mountain and asks the farmer who runs a farm sale, if he has to have two accounts, two companies to separate the value chain of his farm, the answer will be quite clear no.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1515	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1521	I hope the voice keeps holding and that the tears don't spew out. There are some people who can believe in retrospect that I was so touched by the statements made by the rapporteur that I took the tears, but that is not entirely true. This is an incredibly important matter. That's the thing that might affect most of us most throughout the year. We have a shopping pattern in Norway which means that we are in the grocery store about once a day. This means that close contact with the competition that the grocery market should be for us as consumers is quite essential. Fortunately, in many areas, there is now a broad solution and broad consensus in Stortinget that we need to take action. Going back to 2011 and the Steensnæs committee on the food chain investigation, there were very clear discoveries of quite rough conditions related to power and abuse of power in the food chain. At that time, there were no broad solutions to achieve in Stortinget. It was on the contrary quite polarized. Then we have until now, ten years later, been able to gather more or less across political dividing lines. I am pleased, because it is important for consumers, it is important for grocery customers, that there are wide-ranging solutions in Stortinget – precisely in the understanding that a desire for more competition, a healthier competition and a competition that results in the values in the value chain being distributed correctly and in a good way. Of course, we should like to have a majority for even more of the solutions we have proposed, but I am nevertheless pleased that we have received a majority for many important issues through this treatment. Basically, as the government has suggested, there are many good measures, but we thought there was a need to go further and get even further through this treatment. I want to point out some of the areas that I am happy to have agreed on, and that it is important that one follow up on the continuation. One is greater transparency and transparency about vertical integration and stronger supervision by the Competition Authority – including where this includes own brands. That's the importance of the chain owning more and more, one controls more and more from land to table. It is important that we have control and a good follow-up of it, and that the Competition Authority is in place. Until a few years ago, competition surveillance has been frighteningly absent in the daily food sector. I believe that this was also the best reason why we set up the daily food monitoring system in our time. We have a proposal and a committee comment on measures to ensure access to wholesale and distribution services, and that it has to come quickly – an investigation into it. It's important that we get in place and be able to follow up. We also say clearly that the Stortinget asks the government to demand an accounting and functional distinction between the links in the value chain in order to ensure more transparency about price formation in the value chain. Like what was said in the line change, I am amazed that the right parties do not agree with it, as they go down on detailed regulations for the energy plants and the network companies, where one is even required to change their names in order to have distinctions. Setting this requirement just to ensure transparency about the price picture, I think in a way is right and fair. It is good that there is a majority for this type of proposal in this debate. Then we say that the government has to come to Stortinget with one thing about how discounts obtained in the negotiations between suppliers and chains will benefit consumers. Today, we do not know where the discounts and profits are going, but it is a matter of course for competition that they should end up with consumers. That's the big number clearly, and I'm glad. We are clearer about what we were in the change of line, this with price discrimination. Dominant actors shall not abuse their position. I am also pleased that the Right Party, and then certainly the government parties, will be involved in the motion by the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the SV, so that there is a broad solution for this too. Because it is a very substantial proposal that dominant actors are not allowed to abuse their position and that they must justify and explain why there are price differences. That is right and fair in competition. So it's this one with its own brands. Own brands may be beneficial to consumers, but we do not want a development where our own brands will take over and dominate the picture altogether. We have many qualities, good brands around from good manufacturers today. That these are watered out and destroyed, in terms of innovation, etc., through their own brands, and that they dominate, we are not concerned about. That is why we will focus on it in the future. Finally, the border trade: we've gained a lot of new knowledge lately, and now it's important that we use it and try to overcome the border trade problem that lies there, which I think everyone initially agrees that we need to reduce. I address the proposals that the Workers' Party is promoting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1551	The representative of Terje Aasland has addressed the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1558	Today, the Stortinget will unanimously call on the Government to present to the Stortinget its own case on border trade as soon as possible, in which it will discuss and propose measures to reduce border trade and ensure the competitiveness of Norwegian business. But then we note with wonder a joint comment on the proposal for Decision VIII, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, SV and the Progress Party, that it is necessary to look at the measures and experiences that Denmark has made with regard to border trade and harmonisation of charges, especially when we know that one of the things Denmark has done is to lower the alcohol charges to the German level. It makes one wonder: are the red-green opposition parties no longer attached to the clear purpose of the alcohol law? The Labour Party itself expresses in its programme that it will have a strong and knowledge-based drug policy to prevent drug problems and will therefore pursue a restrictive alcohol policy. The Centre Party and SV have similar formulations in their programmes. How does this harmonize with lowering the taxes on alcohol, and hence the price of beer, wine and spirits to consumers?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1565	I am happy to have that question, because then I can put into practice what at least the Labour Party emphasises in both the proposal and the comment, which is the source of it. It's that, first of all, we've gained a lot of new knowledge through the corona era and fenced borders. Now we see that Norwegian goods trading, the Norwegian food industry is losing a lot of money, and so are some of the instruments that deal with the sale of alcohol, for example. the wine monopoly has lost a lot, and the community has lost a lot through lost taxes. We have to take that experience with us. Then we have to get a proper and thorough analysis of what this includes, and that is what we are asking for in the proposal. Then we have said that we also have to look to Denmark and what experience they have done, at good and bad, to say it like that, and that it is also highlighted in this matter, but that does not mean that we are evading the purpose of the alcohol law and a very clearly restrictive line from the Labour Party. On the contrary, we still want to be restrictive. If not, we would also have had other inputs to other questions related to this treatment. We're on it, but we think it's reasonable and wise to also gather knowledge and experience from other countries about what they've done in relation to the same issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1574	The recommendation for Decision VI, to which the representative referred in his statement reads: ‘The government asks the Stortingen Government to come back to Stortinget on its own initiative with proposals on how to organise discounts in the daily food industry that are achieved in the negotiations between suppliers and chains to a greater extent.’ The question really is how the representative sees this to be done, because what's the challenge here is that it's not said that you ask the government to investigate or come back in an appropriate way, but it says that you ask the government to come back with a case about how to arrange for discounts to follow the product. Hopefully that means that proposers have an idea of how to do it. This is why the government parties are outside, because we believe it is very, very problematic, at least without investigations, and probably not possible. So it would be interesting to hear what the Workers' Party sees for itself is the solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1586	I don't think the government wants to file a case for the Storting without them figuring out how to do it. I believe it must be the responsibility of the government to find out a possible device on it. The theme is well known, but the theme has been discussed for a long time. Many claim, and we believe it is right that the discounts obtained for a product through negotiations should initially be returned to the customer. That is what we have explained in the proposal. Then, of course, the government has to figure out different aspects of it, and present the consequences of it to the Storting. We have not gone in and said specifically how we think it should be implemented, because then it would not really be necessary to ask the government to come back with a case, but we have asked the government to come up with a case of its own, and in that we also add that the government has to investigate the various aspects of such a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1595	My question is to the extent related to the question from Kårstein Eidem Løvaas. It's about own brands, where we've seen a huge growth in Norway, which has occurred at the same time as Norway has had the largest price increase in all countries in the whole Nordic region. Researchers believe that there is a strong link between the development of own brands in the chains and that prices have increased. SV has made a proposal, which the Central Party is behind, that one should sort out a ban and come back to Stortinget with its implementation. This, pointed out by many, as one of the most important drivers, is that prices increase, which goes beyond consumers, and which last and last goes beyond fishermen and farmers – the producers – do not want to support the Workers' Party. Can the representative give me a good reason why, after the debate, when we come to the vote, the Labour Party does not reach out and say that they support the ban on the EMV, its own brands?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1604	If an investigator has a ban on its own brands, one intends to implement a ban on its own brands – it is the entrance of the Workers' Party. We believe that own brands also have some kind of quality for the range of products, in terms of price discussion, quality discussion and diversity discussion. Then we clearly see that there are challenges related to our own brands. Nor do we want it to take dominant positions, or that we come into a situation where it is essentially what becomes the trademark that the chains stand for and have in their shelves. That is why we have our way into this proposal, and we are not going to vote against a ban in this context, because we believe it would be wrong. But I assume that as long as both the SV and the Central Party propose an investigation, they intend to vote in favour of a ban if they had been given the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1611	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1616	In 1905 Knut Hamsun sent a letter to Ole Johan Larsen where he, among other things, I got into such a whirlwind of pilfers and politics when I got home. Whether there has been a lot of poltergeists in the processing of this message, I will not say anything about it, I doubt it. But politics has at least been in full harmony. There have been discussions and cooperation within the Committee, which have given what seems to be a very good result and decisions that will actually affect competition in the food chain. There is no doubt that there are major challenges in the matter and in the industry. It is a complex industry, and many actors have many different interests. I understand that the government has been a little cautious when they have taken hold of this, because it is easy to grasp that one does not know the reach of, or that simply can have the opposite effect of it so separately. The aim is to get lower prices and a greater choice for consumers. The aim is to improve competition between operators at all stages. We've listened to everyone. I believe that the members of the Committee have listened to everyone else and had meetings with many. We have appreciated the cooperation we have had with the various actors, and we have heard about their challenges. There is one thing that has been much debated lately, and that is the differences in purchasing prices, i.e. price discrimination. Investigations by the Competition Authority show that it is up to 15 pst. differences in the purchase price of individual goods. That's a lot. What's amazing is that these good discounts and differences don't make any difference to the price in the store shelf. If it is true that there are so many price differences, it is undoubtedly a huge obstacle to competition. It's hard, if not impossible, for a new actor to survive when there's such a big price difference. In fact, it is a challenge for established actors also to cope with this with the small margins in this sector, where volume is the major factor. The result is at least that the concentration of power will increase, and this is also a breach of Section 11 of the Competition Act. It shall be prohibited to exploit its dominant position through: ‘to apply to trading partners different conditions for equivalent benefits, thereby placing them at a disadvantage’.» We are pleased that, together with the Workers' Party and SV, we ensure a majority that we strengthen the Competition Act. I also hope that the government parties will join in on this, as we heard indications both during the change of line and from the post to the case rapporteur. Competition supervision and operators shall be aware of differences in purchase prices and shall be justified in substance – it shall not prejudice competition. Mactrabatt is prohibited. The large ones shall not use their market power in such a way that they are less scattered. I record that someone believes this will lead to higher prices for the consumer, but I am absolutely convinced that this will result in lower prices, because it will improve competition. Another thing that has been much discussed is the guidance given in the Competition Surveillance Authority's notice on the infringement fee, where the actors, the three chains, are accused of breaking the law, i.e. the law on price cooperation. If this is true that there has been price cooperation, it is serious, and it has to be broken down. What amazes me is: Why has the Competition Authority not arrived early, about ten years ago, when this cooperation was established through the prize me, and given its guidance? They have an obligation to guide. The Competition Authority is obliged to provide guidance to the operators, and it is clear and clear in Section 9 of the Competition Act. If they had gone in and given this guidance, they could say that this could be illegal, or they could refer to previous case-law, if there is, and then they could say that they would advise against doing this. This does not mean that the Competition Authority in its guidance is to give a ‘go’ order for anything, but they can at least warn against this being a violation of the law and, as I said, refer to previous case-law. I am pleased that we also get a majority to clarify to the Competition Authority that indicative activities should be strengthened in the food industry. There has been some discussion around it with vertical integration – power concentration downwards in the value chain. We will not get into such a situation where the same operator owns the grocery store, the trucks, the wholesalers, the supplier, the manufacturer, etc. If this develops, it will have an unfortunate impact on competition. At the same time, we are not a communist state and cannot regulate and prohibit everything we don't like. It also turns out that the structure that the different chains have worked out around the wholesaler and distribution is the most effective way for them to do this. This will also result in them being able to keep prices as low as possible, as the margins in wholesale and distribution are so low that they can barely afford to buy new trucks. Some are eager to regulate their own brands and even prohibit them. It is important to ensure that the market is open to all. We cannot risk a monopoly or duopol in the long term. It is also an entry point for small operators to enter the market and become part of competition with their own brands. That's why we think banning our own brands would be a wrong direction to go in. The conclusion now is that we're not quite in the goal. I don't think the decisions we make today will be alpha and omega because we get good competition in the food chains, but it's a long, long step on the way. I expect to see an improved competitive situation with the decisions we make today. It depends, of course, on the understanding and active follow-up of Storting’s intention by the Competition Authority. We also expect players in the industry to play fair. And we're going to, the whole Storting, I think, follow closely the development further – especially on the prices out to the consumer. The rapporteur was concerned that this was about the daily bread. "Corn it was bread, grain or not grain it was life or death," Knut Hamsun wrote in the field's crops. I would like to raise the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1655	Then the representative Morten Ørsal Johansen mentioned the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change. The President is asking for Morten Ørsal Johansen to be standing at the interlocutor a little more.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1665	We're very calm in Hedmark and Uppland, we have to avoid a line as well, not just run down from the pulpit right away, because these are important themes for our citizens. In Hedmark and Uppland — The Inland — the food industry is very large, and that is true throughout our country. Every five industrial workers work in the production of food and drink. In our part of the country, it is mainly the agri-food industry that makes us highly valued, and that many get their daily bread by raising wages, going to work and making sure that we have safe food for others – and then buying grain, as Ørsal Johansen spoke about. But will not the policy of the Progress Party to eliminate customs protection mean that there will be fewer who have their daily bread by producing food from the agri-food industry in the Inland?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1672	Unlike the Sandtrøen representative, I actually believe that Norwegian agriculture can also be competitive worldwide. Norwegian agriculture is an efficient agriculture; we are one of the world's most innovative farms, and we are the world's purest food producing agriculture. If this cannot be part of and compete with other actors, the representative has little faith in Norwegian agriculture. I think Norwegian agriculture is full of agriculture elsewhere. But then I am also aware that Norwegian consumers are very knowledgeable, so if we were to get foreign operators and to a greater extent foreign products, I think the Norwegian consumer would choose quality over price.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1677	It is becoming a debate on bread. The daily bread refers to the Scriptures, which otherwise mention “bread” 466 times, so this has been important for a long time. In addition, bread is too expensive, so we hope that we can now have better competition in the food industry. But two clarifications – I think the representative was clear in his post, but a little bit in the extension of the reply exchange I had with the Labour Party representative: it concerns proposal No. 1, which, as I see it, is within the current legislation, and within the laws to which the Competition Authority relates today, but also III, where the Stortinget asks the Government to clarify to the Competition Authority that indicative activities need to be strengthened in the food industry. If I understood the representative correctly, III is also to be regarded as, let's say, a friendly push on the Competition Authority to do more of what they have the opportunity to do that they may not have done so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1684	We depend on bread – I'm also very happy with butter and milk, so we have to bring it in this context. To the questions from Løvaas: I can answer corroboratingly to both. As regards proposal No: 1, refers to Section 11 of the Competition Act, and that's what we're dealing with there, but it's an aggravation or a marshy to the government to ask the Competition Authority to be more clear on the intention of the law. As far as III is concerned, of course, the same applies, it refers to Section 9 of the Competition Act, and it is simply that we ask the government to strengthen the possibility and the grip that the Competition Authority has on guiding food questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1693	Baking bread is a part of our food industry, together with slaughterhouses, dairies, etc. Norway has a very large food industry, much larger than in our neighbouring countries if one compares with the population base. In Norway, for industries that are important, we often have big business messages where we go through politics. Here we have the daily report, which has looked at that industry, we have a big message about the maritime industry for treatment, we have a big message about the oil and gas industry. My question is: shouldn't we have a big message about the food industry, so that we can get a better and more targeted policy to stimulate jobs in the food industry? It is a proposal that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV have in mind here today, and for which the Progress Party can secure multiple numbers. Does the Progress Party want to do that?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1698	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1703	It won't Ørsal Johansen, and then the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1708	Now I'm neither as learned nor as button in shape as the representative Ørsal Johansen, but I want to start with the verse "O you who feed little bird, bless our food, O God". That was my song at school, and at that time maybe the world was so simple. Now I want to focus a little bit on others who are asking that we get food on the table. In this case, it is very often shown a bit of a scratch to the grocery store. It's important for us to say that there are thousands of good additives in the daily food industry. There are many engaged day-to-day tenants, shopkeepers and merchants who are asking that we have shops all around the country. They have made a great effort under the pandemic and made sure that it has been possible for us to get hold of food. For many, the store has also been one of a few meeting places where they can see other people. There are a lot of good people in this value chain. We have farmers, we have fishermen, we have industrial workers who process the food, and we have those who transport the food. It's a huge amount of people working in the industry, and it's a quite unique and good industry that we have every reason to be proud of. Therefore, it is so important, and it has been so important for the Centre Party, to bring forward a political issue that goes through the entire food chain – from soil and fjord to table. And that's what we have to deal with today. It has been important for the Center Party to be clear on what the problem is: what is the problem in this food value chain? Our answer is very simple: the daily food chains have too much power over the other actors. The daily food chains – we have three of them in Norway – control too much, and they get more and more power. The central part of the game is that we want to reverse that development. We believe that consumers and producers have a common interest in what is now happening, and it is gratifying that the Right Party and the Progress Party now see that there is a need to go in and regulate the industry more clearly. I don't know how many times we've dealt with the law of good trade and suggestions about it before we got accepted for it. So something has gone in the right direction, and that's good. But I think it's important to be aware of the main problem that we're going to solve here. We join in all the suggestions made by the government in the message. There is a lot to describe, but there are no measures that we will go directly against. And then I'm happy with two things: the one thing is that we're able to form some plurals today that will matter. The second is that the Centre Party, the Workers' Party and the SV are united on a number of important actions that we can work for and that will be important to the election. For the Central Party, it has also been important for us to have a knowledge-based approach to this. That means that if we ask for something to be paid out, we have not said that we will go for that measure, but we will know the consequences. In the field after field, whether it's integration, fragmentation or own brands, we've said, let's figure out all the measures. Let's get knowledge of everything -- whether from nothing to do anything to go for a ban, go for a split of the chains, go to split the chain distribution. We want to have this knowledge, because we want clarity in the space we have. It is also important to give consumers more insight into what is happening from the manufacturer to the goods in the store. Where does the price quote come from? Who's left with the win? It's a paradox that two of Norway's richest families live by selling the food. In a 200-billion-dollar market. There are three actors who are in full control. Then it's touchingly beautiful when you've read a setting and come to the end and it says that this is not a dot. That's important, because what we're doing now is a first step on the road. There will be a need to follow up on the daily food value chain, and I am pleased that all batches indicate that new measures may also be needed. With that, I would like to address the proposal that the Central Party is behind by itself, and the proposals we have with SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1737	The representative Geir Pollestad has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1744	Let me start by saying that I very much agree with much of what the representative Pollestad is talking about. I am also very pleased that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV are united in the cases where we have not received a broad majority. But there's one proposal that the Center Party is outside, and they haven't signaled anything if they want to be on or off. It could have been good to hear a little bit about the reason for that. I share the opinion of the representative Pollestad that the power concentration in the food chain is problematic, and that we need to have good control of it. But the same is true of the suppliers. When the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Socialist Left have a very clear proposal that neither do dominant suppliers abuse their position to suppress the competition that should be there, just to get competition between the chains, I do not fully understand why the Center Party is voting against it. Can I get a justification from the Central Party for why they are not on that proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1752	It can be a good thing. Firstly, if a person abuses his or her position, it will currently also be contrary to the Competition Act. It's the one. Then there's a real discussion where I find that the starting point of the Labour Party is that a like purchase price. The center party says it's probably going a little bit too far. We don't want unreasonably different purchase prices. There we have a little bit different approximation. So I believe that this has been poorly assessed and distributed in the message itself. That is why we have our proposal No. 18, where we ask the government to set out models to limit the differences in purchase prices in the daily food industry. We are also not disunityed in principle, but we are afraid that the government might impose a particular burden on smaller players – now we point to the dominant, but also smaller, actors – an excessive burden by justifying each price. Therefore, we would like to have an assessment of this from the government before we decide.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1763	This is a bit of an extension of the Aasland question. For the proposal to which he refers, proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, SV and the Workers' Party, it seems quite certain that more people will join in the course of the debate here today, and then maybe only the Central Party is left outside that proposal. The representative himself was concerned with the importance of broad and solid consensus here so that things could stand. The proposal is also similar to what the Centre Party was for in the commercial industry notification. So I want to ask the representative if they will be able to assess during the debate whether they will also join in on that proposal, so that it becomes unanimous.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1768	It is rare for a representative from a party who is not on a proposal to come up and argue for the proposal that the representative is not on. I will again refer to our proposal No. 18, which in content will last a lot of the same thing. So it would be too crazy if we were to take from both Trygve Hegnar and Today's Business happy to write that the Center Party is laying its protective hand over Nortura and Tine. Like I said, it's a criticism that really sucks. However, it is important to say that even the major players, such as Orkla, Tine, Nortura, etc., should of course be subject to the rules of the Competition Act and that the Competition Authority must follow them up. But when it comes to this foundational obligation that I believe this to a large extent covers, we would like to have a wider distribution of it before we decide what model we want. It is essentially about choosing an unbureaucratic and effective solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1775	In many cases, own brands have helped to reduce the price of consumers, and reduced prices are definitely considered to be the best for the consumer. Own brands are also an opportunity for small operators to sell themselves to some chains with their products in order to adapt and reduce barriers to establishment. The centre lot, together with SV, has a proposal to look at the possibilities of prohibiting its own brands. This is basically a good socialist proposal. Can the representative mention any other Western countries that have similar prohibitions on own brands?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1782	If you're going to add the credit, there's probably a lot here that a right-hand stand might be due to being socialism, and it's easy that we have a market that doesn't work, that needs to go in and regulate. I don't buy the reality description that own brands are about giving consumers cheaper goods. Now it's like a find your own brand in more and more price segments – it's not just that it's car dealership. We are concerned about a development in which a person uses the brand to cross-subsidize his own brands, and that they have a competitive advantage. It's about the daily food chains being brought in on the supplier's page. So I think we have to decide which decisions we think are best for the Norwegian grocery market. Our approach there has been to say: let's figure out both small and large measures to manage the EMV. Because it's clear that the developments that are now, we want to stop and turn around. We don't want a development where one has almost only its own brands in stores.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1789	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1794	Every day we are bombarded with advertising, and one of the things that we may be most exposed to is advertising from the big chains: «We make Norway cheaper». «We never give ourselves a price». «Now kutter... prices again.» This is pumped out to the great public and fills our daily lives, so we believe, in the end, that here we have some chains that actually knock down the prices for us all, that they act like Robin Hood for us, that they sort it out so that we get out of it with cheap raw materials. But the truth is the opposite. In the last twenty years, we have seen a trend in which the price growth of a buyer in the store, in Norwegian groceries, has increased much more than in the Nordic countries. If one deletes both customs duties, certain Norwegian fees, price, salary – if one adjusts for it, one sees that it is still around 15 pst. which cannot be explained. Then there's the answer, as many people have pointed out here, and that of course has been pointed out by both researchers and actors in Norway, that we don't have a market that works. We have a market that makes sure that there are a few that tend to it, while consumers lose in terms of increased prices. Call what you want, but own brands don't lead to lower prices. Over the period of time the brand has increased, the last 15 years – it has increased tremendously – at the same time the price of food has increased. Get it, whoever wants it. When it comes to meat dough packages, eight out of ten meat dough packages are own brands. On bread, which was named here instead, which is good, there are hardly any free, independent actors again. It has become own brands of the actors themselves. In other words, it does not lead to increased competition; it leads to fierce competition, and those who are attracted to it are not the consumers – they lose out on it. And the other side that also loses on this, as we, among other things. have seen in the case of meat through Nortura, the farmers themselves. We see the same thing, among other things. for fish: fishermen receive today under one tenth of the retail price. So we're in a very serious situation, and it's already had practical consequences. One thing is the overprice that consumers face in shops, but it also has practical consequences for Norwegian agricultural policy. Nortura in Målselv is now at risk of being put down. And Nortura, we know, largely delivers their meat to the big chains, and the big chains have their food stores south. So, you have to put the Nortura in Goal Self, which means that it is no longer a reception for meat in the north. This means that North Norway becomes a pure commodity supplier, simply where the food is sent south to the warehouse there, and it may come back to North Norway. Although it is actually locally created as a unique local product, which is then distributed in the region, Nortura no longer sees any future in sustaining further operations. The case is under development. We're hoping to stop it, but the effect of monopolistic formation in the food chains is simply that it's now being built up, and it's a direct attack on agriculture in important parts of the country. This wholesale, distribution and proprietary controls have already gone too far, so those who want to see how this works should already start considering the SV proposals. I want to make sense of Romartal V, which a collective committee is behind. It says: ‘The Government is asked to clarify to the Competition Authority that they must pay particular attention to vertical integration and concentration of chain-might. Own brands must not be given such a dominant position that they squeeze out other actors and prevent innovation.» That's already happening. Some areas have already gone so far that there are hardly any independent actors left. And then I don't understand why more of the parties here -- there's only two parties behind SV's proposals -- don't agree to just figure out a ban, to see how to limit your own brands. I'm finally taking up the suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1814	The representative Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1819	There are few industries we're as dependent on as those that produce, distribute and sell our food. Every day we deal with groceries in the stores we buy them in, and as a liberal party, the Left is concerned that consumers should have maximum choice and choice when they buy the food. We want the widest possible range of goods, so that people have the opportunity to buy the goods they want. It is then essential that as many actors as possible be brought into line with the industry. It is important to facilitate the entry of small and medium-sized producers into the store shelves. We're not just dependent on the big actors like Orkla. We also need access to the honey produced on the roof of the industrial building in the countryside, or the organic open-air pig farm. The Left believes that freer competition is essential to promote value creation and innovation and to counteract power concentrations in the daily food industry. Unfortunately, we do not have enough competition in the food market in Norway today. We have tough competition conditions and a very concentrated value chain for food in Norway. This is seen by higher prices and poorer choice of goods in Norway than our neighbouring country has. There are several reasons for this, but weakened competition in the industry is one of the main explanations. We have three major actors: the Norway Group, the Reitan Group and the Coop, which have increased power concentration through their vertical integration and acquisition and establishment of producers, wholesalers and distribution. We are increasingly using our own brands, which can offer lower prices for some goods to the consumer, but also lower choice of goods, less product innovation and further concentration of power among a few actors. I am pleased that a total collapse today is asking the government to ensure that the Competition Authority has an even closer follow-up with vertical integration and vertical restraints that could damage competition. I also believe it is obvious that the labelling of own brands should be clear, that it is perfectly clear who they are buying raw materials from, whether it is Germany or Norway. It is too difficult to establish itself as a new player in the food market, and it is not always as easy to be colonial or bottom-priced in competition with the three largest. But I'm glad that they and many vegetable dealers all over Norway exist, because they contribute to diversity and a variety of samples that we don't necessarily find in the biggest chains. Fortunately, there has been increasing attention to the competitive situation in the groceries market in recent years. A number of investigations have been carried out to improve competition. We have asked the Competition Authority to strengthen the enforcement of the competition law in the daily food industry and to add more money to them, so that they can prioritise this work. The focus on the industry is becoming stronger, among other things. by notifying in December by the Competition Authority the three major actors of the infringement fee for possible infringements of the Competition Act in which cooperation in the field of pricing activities may have given Norwegian consumers higher prices than they should have had. We have put in place a separate law on trade practices and set up our own daily food supervision. Although the job is hardly finished and there is a big message about groceries we are dealing with today, there is another step towards ensuring competition in the market. Price discrimination by dominant operators is prohibited under the Competition Act, and I therefore believe it is good that the Stortinget asks the Government to clarify to the Competition Authority that supervision must be based on the fact that suppliers with a dominant position have a special responsibility to demonstrate that the differences in the terms of procurement are factually justified and not detrimental to competition. This means that it is not necessary to obtain economies of scale as a result of buying quantities or the like, but that illegal price discrimination must be combated. Price discrimination is a major barrier to the creation of new players in the market, and there is little doubt that there is a job to be done to improve competition in the food industry, so that consumers are given a greater choice in the store and the opportunity to choose from a wider variety of goods at a good price. The grocery market is an important step on the way, and I experience that Storting’s work on the wholesale notification has made a good announcement from the government even better. Then I must be allowed to say that I am well pleased with the signals from the case rapporteur from our own position. During this debate, we may support proposal No. 1, and I have to say that I think it sounds very reasonable from the left's point of view.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1838	The paper we are dealing with today addresses one of the most important markets in the lives of the Nordics, the grocery market. The communication has raised a number of issues that business policymakers at the Stortinget have addressed in depth. At the same time, this is not a field we, as a nutrition committee or industry policy, follow only when dealing with these kinds of messages. No, this is a field we're constantly working on, precisely because a well-functioning grocery market is essential to people. Therefore, I would like to stress that the Committee has noticed a matter that VG published on 25 September last year on the grocery trade, the food stock exchange. The article was based on a comparison of sales prices of 91 ordinary groceries in the three low-cost companies Kiwi, REMA 1000 and Coop Extra. The test showed that REMA and Kiwi had the same price for 90 of these goods. The difference in the final sum for the purchases of 91 groceries in the three main food chains was completely insignificant. The goods from Kiwi, REMA 1000 and Coop Extra cost a total of 3519 kroner, 3520 kroner and 3534 kroner, respectively. It gives a price difference for 91 groceries between the two cheapest chains of exactly 64 cents. It's very interesting, and there's more questions to ask. How can food chains, despite significant variations in purchasing prices from suppliers, operate at such equal sales prices? Is it, then, that the advantage of favourable purchasing conditions actually benefits consumers? This is a theme on which the Business Committee and the Stortinget will follow closely in the coming days. Another very important theme deals with this with vertical integration or bonds in the market. For example, there may be ties between retailers and suppliers or exclusivity agreements between retailers and suppliers. I am pleased that the government will identify the scope of exclusivity agreements, with the aim of investigating how the agreements affect consumers. Furthermore, the government will also establish a daily food monitoring body to enforce the law on good trade practices, and asks the Competition Authority to strengthen its control over differences in purchase prices. The fact that food chains also control wholesale trade makes it very difficult for new actors to establish themselves, because the dominance of the value chain is too great. It is unfortunate, all the time when Norway both wants and needs new small and medium-sized enterprises also in the retail trade. It would give a relatively concentrated market deficit. The aim must be clear: consumers are the market for which they exist. We know that some Norwegian consumers living along the border with Sweden have used their geographical location to shop groceries there. Nevertheless, we do not currently have sufficient knowledge of which goods the Nordics are trading, and to what extent. The Covid-19 pandemic and closed borders have further updated the debate. The government wants a better overview of the border trade and will explore the possibilities for a border trade barometer. Today, the size gives a clear marshalling earth and asks the government to draw up a border-trade barometer as a permanent arrangement as from 2021. It will give us new and lasting insights and will make it easier to take knowledge-based measures. The Mercury programme is an important area of regional policy. We want the whole country to be used, and then a well-functioning grocery market that extends across the country is absolutely vital. People living in the districts should have good access to food shops in their community. The Ministry of Local Affairs and Modernisation will carry out an external review of the programme, and it is very gratifying that a majority of the Committee has supported the strengthening of the Merkur scheme. We believe that the Merkur programme should be extended in such a way that kiosks and service stations in District Norway that run a varied supply of groceries and services can also receive support through the scheme. However, what does not belong in gas stations is the sale of alcohol. We note that the Progress Party is promoting proposals for further liberalisation of our alcohol policy in society by opening up the sale of alcohol at gas stations. The Granavolden platform is sunny at that point: the government will continue the main lines of today's policy, which is also underlined in the message. The alcohol law has a sun-clear purpose. The aim is to minimise the social and individual harms that alcohol use can cause. As part of that, the law aims to limit the consumption of alcoholic beverages. Alcohol has nothing to do with traffic, and therefore has nothing to do with petrol stations. Introducing alcohol at gas stations would be harmful policy. This would be a major step backwards for both road safety and public health. I am pleased that a large majority will vote in favour of this proposal. We are once again seeing the Progress Party stand alone with its free move-approaching of alcohol policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1859	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1865	Through these processes related to the groceries market and its regulation, Stortingen follows up a bit of what was the ambitions of the Steensnæs Committee back in 2011. One of the things that at the time was perhaps most alarming, was the inconsistency, and the power and fear that were somehow spread in the negotiations and in relation to the various power concentrations in the food chains. It re-writes an overall committee in the comments. We write that there is too little transparency and even a lot of fear and uncertainty between the actors. But when we suggest that the government should investigate and propose measures to ensure more transparency in the value chain for food, the Christian People's Party votes no. Is there any logic in that?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1874	Let me first underline that the Steensnæs report was very interesting and really quite scary at that point. Now we've got a law on good trade, which is going to take care of exactly the things that Aasland's representative is asking for: openness and transparency in the negotiations between the supplier and the food chain. I feel that it has been taken care of by the fact that the new law is now starting to work, and that we are getting a daily food inspection to follow it up. Otherwise, I don't ignore that one before we go to voting, can get an assessment of whether that Roman number decision might be something we can go into. We're going to get back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1883	I think it's important that we stand as close together as possible as we can in these cases. Then the next question that goes to the representative, Reiten, who has the responsible State Council in the Ministry of Agriculture, is that we have been informed these days that the green sector is a socially critical function and is to be dealt with as it is. But in the proposal here, there is a slightly wider part of the green sector, really the whole food industry, that wants a big deal to do with it. This is not least an important proposal. As we have experienced in the last year, having safe food production, good food production – the whole value chain related to the food spectrum works – is also important in a crisis context. Wouldn't it be wise now, on the basis of what we've learned, to get an investigation into our own big business on the food industry? Why does the Christian People's Party not support that proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1892	The government has announced that one after the pandemic will have a broad review of the whole emergency situation in Norway, including food supplies and our own domestic food production. Then I have understood that there is a question of capacity in the departments in a very stressful situation – when one now has to deal with the coronary crisis from day to day, with ever-new crisis packages – and that it is therefore not appropriate to start work on its own big message about the food industry in the short term. I understand that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1899	The cord shift is over. Storting takes a break in the negotiations to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1914	The size then goes to voting on the case no. 1 to 4 and points 9 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1926	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. That is the proposal No. 1-3, by Nils Kristen Sandtrøen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back with proposals for tightening up the concession law and other legislation with a view to strengthening the local Norwegian ownership of forest and land in Norway.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The government is asked to come back with proposals for a legislative amendment which also requires a concession to be granted to the hall of a limited liability company which owns a land subject to concession.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to the Storting with proposals for amending the law to introduce price controls on clean forest properties, in order to ensure scattered ownership and the possibility of overall management.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up. The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e1971	The Committee had decided to refer the following decisions to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e2324	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e2336	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e2350	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e2362	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1, from Åsunn Lyngedal on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Torgeir Knag County on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with the necessary proposals to amend the Public Acquisitions Act to focus on the environment and climate 50 pst. in public acquisitions.» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e2388	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e2396	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to submit proposals for amendments to Section 4 of the Acquisition Act. The proposal shall ensure that the principle of safeguarding environmental, social and labour law is equated with the applicable principles of competition, non-discrimination, predictability, reprobability and proportionality in public acquisitions.’;» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e2420	During the debate, Nils Kristen Sandtrøen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to start the clearing work at Folldal mines and to return to the Stortinge in the context of the revised national budget for 2021, with a concrete plan on how to implement and finance this.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e2537	The daily food market and its functioning play a major role in the everyday life of consumers. When it's like that for every thousand bills we make, we put on average another hundred bills in the grocery store, it goes without saying that the purchase of food represents a large amount for most people. In Norway, we have higher food prices and smaller range of products than in our neighbouring countries, for which there are several reasons, such as: a. plays a role in geography, climate and population distribution. Norway is a long-term country with the opportunities and challenges it carries. Competition conditions in the food industry are challenging. A few actors dominate large parts of the market, and it is difficult for new players to establish themselves. We know that limited competition can have major negative effects, such as: inefficient resource use, high prices for consumers, less innovation. When we have proposed measures in the Single European Act, we have stressed that they should benefit consumers. In order to achieve this, it is important that they have a positive impact on competition. In 2018 we asked the Competition Authority to strengthen the enforcement of the Competition Act in the food industry. The initiative is an effective measure to improve competition in the market. There was also extra funding with this effort. In the revised national budget in 2019, the Competition Authority was allocated 6.5 million. kr for that work. For 2020, it was set at 8.5 million. kr, and we have continued the bet for 2021. The Government considers that effective competition in this sector is important in order to safeguard the interests of consumers, and in the Communication we have proposed to make this effort permanent. Purchasing prices have a great deal to say about the profitability of operators in the groceries market. Differences in purchasing prices and their impact on competition are therefore subject to many and strong opinions, and it is easy to understand. Differences in purchase prices are not prohibited in themselves. Moreover, it is not uncommon for different market players to achieve different conditions and conditions. It's part of the free competition. However, the results of the Competition Surveillance Authority’s monitoring of purchasing prices show that there are some significant differences and, where these differences are anti-competitive, they are prohibited by the Competition Act. The government believes it is important to strengthen control of purchase prices. That is why we have also taken action, for example. annual surveys carried out by the Competition Authority will facilitate the detection of competitive differences in purchasing prices. In the Communication, the Government has also notified that the Competition Authority will request justification from suppliers operating with large differences in purchase prices. On 1 January 2021, the law on good trade in the food chain entered into force and the day-to-day monitoring was established. The Director has now been appointed and supervision is in the process of preparing the activities in the future. The law shall contribute to orderly negotiations and more predictable agreements between the actors. The day-to-day monitoring is now in an up-to-date phase. The Industry Committee has highlighted several challenges in the industry: vertical integration, low transparency, own brands. These are complex issues which involve, in part, demanding assessments and where decisions can have significant consequences. This could lead to an increase in prices and a decrease in consumer choice in the worst-case scenario. The Communication therefore contains several measures to acquire knowledge so that we can take more and more effective action in the long term. Competition is a means of innovation and technology development that benefits both customers and industry themselves. Competition helps to lower food prices and to increase the variety of shopping shelves. It is not least important in the daily food industry. Therefore, the government's work on the daily food industry is not over with this message, it continues with full strength, but now we have taken some action that I am absolutely sure will have positive consequences. So we want to start this work in a completely different place than we did when we wrote this message.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e2558	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e2563	I agree with the Minister of Industry's statement that the follow-up work on the groceries sector is not over. On the contrary – it has started so far, in my opinion. It's an important market, it's a big market, and it means a lot to people that they get both the quality, the diversity and the price that's as right as possible from what's happening. Then good competition, healthy competition, is quite essential. One of the things that has been much discussed and that the Committee writes about is access to wholesale and distribution services, and that it should be done on equal, competitive and transparent terms. We believe that this can ensure more effective competition, and we now ask the government to investigate regulations in this area. But we also say that it is urgent to come back to the Storting with concrete measures. Then my question is, When does the Council of State see that she can come to Stortinget with a matter of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e2572	Now I think we should first adopt this matter we have in Stortinget today. Then we have to continue working on the measures we ourselves have said to follow up, and also on what the Storting has put in on top of it. We are now at a stage where we have a daily food service that is now up and down, and which is going to build up and also help us in the ministry by providing us with a case-by-case and factual basis. So exactly when we're able to get back to the different points, I have to get back to when we've come a little bit further with the treatment. First of all, it has been about getting this case through today in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e2579	Then I can assure the Council that I am sending a written question during the day, and I expect a constructive answer to that. The point is that when the Storting and an overall committee write that it is urgent to get back to Storting with concrete measures on the wholesale and distribution services, we believe something about that. It's important that we get it back, and maybe we'll see this in context with what's happening now. That's what the committee wanted. Another thing that lies as a majority decision is the relationship with border trade, which is a serious issue. Great values are passed on to the Swedes through trade at the border. It has been discussed for many, many years, and one has never taken enough time to try to do anything about it. Now Stortinget is asking very clearly that one go through this and try to secure the competitiveness of Norwegian business. There's at least my claim that it's urgent, because it has to happen in a context – before one opens the boundaries completely again. One has to see it in that context and in that light, and I think many people out there also expect us to do. My question is, can the Minister of Industry have an ambition to present such a case to the Stortinget, so that we can deal with it in the light of what has now happened?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e2588	At the beginning of the question to the representative, I would say that I'm not just busy coming back quickly to the Storting, but that we have a knowledge base to come back with, because it's just as important for the Storting that they get good things, that they get things. We also have to do a job to be able to deliver on what Stortinget asks us to do. As far as border trade is concerned, of course, we should also conscientiously follow up on what the Committee asks us to follow up, and we are in a very special situation. We now have closed borders for all practical purposes. We have put behind us a year when many see the consequences of reduced border trade. Not only the shops that are located along the border, but also those that are, for example, produces jams in the West, now they feel that they are getting increased sales figures precisely because we do not have border trade. Of course, this is something we should follow up conscientiously.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e2597	I would like to stress that it is not primarily about just getting rid of the border trade, but it follows something in the consequence of what has happened during the last year. It is that the retail trade has employed many more. There are many thousand people who now have a job in the grocery trade precisely because the borders are closed. The same applies to producers on the farm and through the food industry. Providing predictability now means that the Storting must quickly have a case about the border trade. Then my very clear call for this to happen quickly, for one to take the consequences into account in the other industries that are clearly directly affected by this, and for one to be able to maintain both jobs and employment according to the current situation, through this process. So it's urgent, and I hope that the Minister of Industry can see that she will help us get this so that we can deal with it on this side of the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e2606	I can't stand here now and say when we can deliver on it. Now we have to follow up the decisions Stortingen makes today, and then I get back to when we can follow up the different aspects of this. There are several things Stortinget now asks us to do, and there are several things we have said ourselves that we want to follow up in the light of this big message. I would like to add that the issue of border trade is also about charges. It's also about how we get people to act in Norway, and the jobs come here. The government parties and the Progress Party have a budgetary settlement, which came at the latest for a couple, I don't want to say months, but weeks ago, where this has been included. This is probably a problem which concerns both knowledge, taxes and taxes and concrete policies in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e2613	In the work on the message, there is an experience that many people who are in contact have our insecure and fearful. They've said, "I can tell you, but they can't use my name, etc." The Committee writes that the Committee has also experienced an industry where it is difficult to get people to talk about the value chain and where there is a great deal of fear and uncertainty between the actors. It's pretty bad that the situation is this way, and that all the parties in the committee felt that they could join such a rather depressing description of the situation. I assume that the department and government have had contact with industry actors. My question is whether the Council shares the view that there is a culture of fear, and that there is a great deal of uncertainty in the industry and between operators in the industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e2620	I don't want to use the word fear culture, but it's an industry that's very busy with competition, that's very busy with non-discrimination, and that's very busy getting the same opportunities, for example. to talk to me as a state councillor. I have had more meetings with the industry, and I have had to make sure that I include everyone. It's an industry that was for the situation they're in, I agree, but 'fear culture' I haven't experienced as a descriptive thing for the industry. It should be said that this is a topic that has engaged very strongly in the daily food industry. One of the first observations that came when I took over as Minister of Industry was when someone in the industry was out saying it was a disaster, because they probably felt that they had started so well with the daily food communication and were uncertain about how it would turn out with a new Council of State. But we've had good dialogue. When we presented this message, I experienced that it was well received by the food industry, and that we have found a good balance.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e2628	One of the themes that will be listed in your message is cross-border. As has quite rightly been said, one in the State budget focused on a number of tax conversions and measures to reduce border trade, which at present appears a bit strange – I will not criticise it – when the border is closed. Some of the challenge is that the competition that border trade has to the extent that it has been for the daily food industry is not present. When the Storting decides to reduce the fees, it is because it is busy to get to the consumers. One has written several places here that one is concerned that discounts and other things do not come to consumers, but will remain in the chain. Then my question is, what has the government done to ensure that the tax credits given in the state budget actually come down at lower prices? Does anyone have control of it?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e2635	It is a curious problem the representative points to, which neither the Storting refers to a solution for, precisely because it is complicated. One can have an expectation, one can express the expectation, one can follow the price and see how things regulate, but it's hard to follow up, product by product, how the level of charges results in the actual price externally. We can't help it because it's complicated things. As far as the situation we are now concerned, it's true, as the representative says, that as long as no one gets across the border, there's no trade either. So that's how we're doing a big experiment in a lot of ways. We get experience that we could never have done as a test in a normal situation, so we have some important experience, including for the policy developments that will take place in the future, in the situation we are now facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e2642	The cord shift is over. The next speaker is Tom-Christer Nilsen. No, sorry, the next speaker is Nils Kristen Sandtrøen – then Tom-Christer Nilsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e2649	Never before has so concentrated power over food given so get so much profit. There is a major problem The Storting will try to solve now when there are three food chains in Norway that can enrich themselves both at the workplace and at the expense of us as consumers. As in any private monopoly, a few people can get a lot of profit, like you and I have to pay for. It is workers and businessmen in our whole country who have to pay this cost. The frustration is great, whether there are workers on the industrial floor who produce potato gold, or there are people in the tractor who plow the ground and eventually sell bacon food of meat in the local store, but who never get the opportunity to offer their high-quality products to you and me. That's why it's important, first of all, to recognise that it's good for a total accumulation to address these problems – and it should really just be missing with the large concentrations of power we see. Secondly, it's drawing a positive picture for the time being, especially if we get a new number of large numbers. Among other things, proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the SV, goes into distribution. It is through the distribution stage, as one of several instruments, that food chains are able to deny producers shelf space and insofar raise prices that would not be similar in a more competitive market. The law of good trading practices marked the beginning, this is the continuation, and the decision-making process can provide an impact for a better direction, where the values created in food production and the food industry are actually distributed in a better and fairer way. This occupies so large and varied parts of our population, whether it's food enthusiasts missing a local cheese from More and Romesdal, or it's the industrial worker who sees that the work he's doing doesn't result in the product coming out. Here we have an important and good case to work with at Stortinget. Therefore, it is very good that it is clear in the position that this is not a point today, but that this also marks the continuation of the important work for jobs, distribution and safe food for the whole population.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e2660	Then the next speaker is Tom-Christer Nilsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e2665	President! Nils Kristen, Tom-Christer – we are both tall and dark, sometimes even outside the purely pictorial and visual. I can see that it can be a little difficult. I should like to refer to proposal VI. I have no problem with understanding the good intentions of this proposal. Nor do I have any problems understanding why the Workers' Party gets a little behind when they're going to argue for it, and in practice, in the line change, the government's responsibility is to solve the knot that those who want to tie. Essentially, what is the reason why someone runs a store? It is in the very word ‘shop’, it is actually generating a profit and a profit. These are societally critical functions, but there's a market that covers this. Wholesale and retail trade is trade and not a welfare performance, at least for the time being. That means that the intention to do something, even the rationale of an activity, is to earn it. In this respect, a high priority must be given to the activities that produce results, either through turnover or margins. Taking into account that the discount you get should go directly to the customers, we may think that is a good thing, but then you want to safeguard customers' interest at the lowest price possible. The problem is, however, that if there is no economic interest for the retailer in achieving this discount, he will not put forth any effort to get it either. If all discounts are to be continued directly per provision, it means that there is no intention at the store to obtain the discounts, and then you will not put that effort into it. There's the father in this. When a user's concept of discount, it also becomes a little unmanageable, because what's a discount? When is a price discounted? A discount is something you get at an existing price, but there is usually no price until the negotiations are concluded, and no discount. The result may well be that customers experience higher prices because they have removed the most important incentive for retailing to reduce prices or to obtain the discount. At the same time, some shops have chosen to use such discounts or have achieved a lower price to focus on a healthier diet, for example. by cross-subsidising fruit and vegetables and seafood. It would not be possible by such a provision. Other shops experience different prices on other products, and in order to compete, a good purchase conditions need to be applied to one thing in order to be competitive on another, even if the overall price level is the same as the competitor. But it can only be if one is allowed to control in relation to competition at the price of the consumer’s experience at the store. It ensures the most important thing here, that one adapts to the fact that there are actually several chains to choose from and that the supplier cannot control the market and competition through discounts. The last one is no less problematic than if the retailer does. We have a responsibility to maintain the entire value chain, including the customer. We must then be careful to remove the incentives and mechanisms that contribute to all parts of the value chain acting in line with the interests of customers and in line with socio-economic efficiency. From my point of view, a professionally correct response to such an order as is in proposal VI would be that this is not practicable or desirable, either for the value chain or the customer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e2688	The store is important to all of us. It matters what kind of store you have in your neighborhood, and what kind of selection you get, and the price matters. In particular, production is important, whether you live in the city or in the district. And it's important to have access to local products. The importance of competition in the groceries market, we all agree. That power has become too concentrated over time, we also agree, and we have to do something about that. In reality, this is controlled by only three actors, and I am pleased that we are also going to do something about it. When it's like the chains own or direct the joints of the fisherman and the farmer at the price it gives, it doesn't give us any better quality or price as consumers. The Labour Party has long focused on challenges with the power of this industry, and on our watch, under the Stoltenberg II government, the food chain committee was put down in 2011, and we got the NOU Food, Power and Power. A sample was also set up to look at the need for a law on good trade practices. Both pointed to the need for action, for example: the law on good commercial practice. But it took more than four years for the Solberg government to support it, and in those years, progress has also gone in the wrong direction. I am pleased that we have got the case on the table now, and it is important that we get how important the daily food industry is to so many other industries. Not least we've seen how important this industry has been under the pandemic, at the time we're in now. Many people have their job associated with this industry. The closeness is important. The local store is important. I grew up in a fairly small municipality, in Lavangen. There were only two shops when I was little. It was the store for Ho Inger, and then it was the store for him Per. That's it. And my first work experience got me stuck in the shelves at her Inger on Tuesdays after school. The store is so much more than this as well. That's where the old people – I don't know if it's a parliamentary word to use – come together. They gathered at the store to drink coffee in the morning, and now they also pick up the mail there. It is essential that there be life in the one store that exists. That's why I'm so happy that we're also going to develop the Mercury program to make sure we have shops in the small communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e2707	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e2712	From the Progress Party we have focused on improving competition between actors at all stages in the processing of the daily food notification. For the Progress Party, the aim in the processing of the daily food notification has been to provide framework conditions that provide lower prices and greater choice for consumers. The Progress Party has had the consumer's best as a guide, and has sought solutions that give the consumer more freedom of choice. The daily food industry is dominated by major actors, both in the chain, by wholesalers and on the supplier’s side. It has its advantages, but can create some challenges. It is therefore important and gratifying that most of our proposals are given a majority in the Grand Duchy and will help to improve competition and reduce barriers to establishment. Going back to a situation of independent small buyers is neither possible nor desirable, but at the same time we must take care of diversity and niche products. It should not be a measure of mass production. The progress party wants it to continue to be such that people can bet on making food and drink that can be sold in the local store. In connection with the processing of the daily food notification, I visited a local producer of meat products that store, among other things. servelate, bayoneneskin and various sausage types — popular products in the community. But the challenge was to get into the shops. Although local buyers wanted to take in the products, the impression was that the chains they were connected to were not willing to take in products from local and smaller producers. It strangles local business and local initiative. Nor is it for the benefit of consumers. Consumers today are knowledgeable in terms of quality. They want goods with a story and would like to buy short-range food. It's totally okay that we have Gilde and First Price, but we also have to give the opportunity to the small producers, who never come up on the same scale of production. That's why it's good that we, together with the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, get through so that we can maintain a diversity of suppliers. The majority of the population agree that it is important that local buyers linked to the chains have the opportunity to take in products also from local and smaller producers. We also ask the government to ensure that so-called loyalty agreements between chains and local merchants cannot be bound up to 100 pst. loyalty. In our opinion, it will make it easier for local buyers to choose to take in several local producers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e2725	One of the things that is interesting about this debate is that it is the socialists who are the most concerned with free competition, while the free competition apostles are no longer so concerned with free competition. So things have turned their heads in this case, I have to say. We already know – the food selection was called, the previous distributions are mentioned – that today’s value chain system for food is simply rigged for a few and not for many. The monopoly that we have allowed for food chains today has led to higher prices, which has led to poorer selections – simply the poorer number of goods in the shelves. It weakens producers and suppliers, and it weakens farmers and fishermen. They that strengthen, are not merchants around. Watch one, for example. Rema 1000 and the Norway group, it's not the buyers around that got rid of some foresight here. No, it's the central link, it's the owners of these chains. For this, franchise is built up, that it's the ones on top, that's left with the win, and the ones that's with the burden and the challenge, are the franchise takers. So there's a lot of losers in this, except for a few, who are on the top ten list of all, the richest in the country. What I think there's a great deal of connection to the population is that in the value chain for food, we have to have a competitive situation that benefits the entire population, and that strengthens the work that's been done over the last 20 years of local food. The local food movement is completely dependent on getting into the chains, and reaching 98 pst. The market is run by three major players, who in addition explain local producers from entering the shops, it goes without saying that there is not a glass ceiling, so a roof to get in. So the amazing nature that we have, that can produce some of the best raw materials in the world -- this doesn't make sense, because we have allowed three large, dominant chains to have both vertical and horizontal control over the food we buy in the store. Then I register that some people don't want to follow the SVs line and go far to do something about this, and I record that some people just want to figure out different conditions. Something's in place, we've come a few steps on the road, but we're far from taking the people properly seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e2736	It's about vertical integration and horizontal integration. It's about the EMC, wholesaler, distribution and price calculations, the law of good trading practices and Mercury. It's a young boy of tribal language we've been confused into, folks. But what is this thing really about? Well, she's about that when people go to the store and have 1 liter of Tine H milk, for those who like it, how much of the $20 a pound for milk, goes to the farmer who feeds the cow, who milks the cow, and who delivers the milk? How much is going to the dairy that fetches the milk, that loses the milk, and that runs the milk to the store? How much is left in the chain to sell the milk? We don't know, because it's secret. It's about why it's like this at my local Obs store that three packages of Coop meat dough cost 50 kroner, or often three for 100 kroner, while the Gilde meat dough costs 71 kroner for an equal amount of goods. Is it such that one pays about twice as much in for the Gilde meat dough as one does for Coop's own, or is there something here that doesn't work? This case is about when one goes in, for example. The Kiwi or Spar shop and find the people's meat dough must have a magnifying glass to see if the meat is German or Norwegian today. We in the Center Party want people to know where the meat is from. That's the same thing if you buy elk-carbonated people's elk-carbonated people with Norwegian elk. They've had to put the German cow into the same elg-carbonade. We would like consumers to be well informed about this. It's about not wanting Eldorado to copy Tine's vanilla sauce. Is it to fool the eye of the consumer? One is not a big question to consumers. It's about the fact that when the shops have four hundred grams of chocolate for sale for 100 kroner, the nice ones that sell chocolate to us with losses, or is the gain usually so huge that they can afford to do this? We'll never know the answers to those questions, because it's secret. Everyone can understand why meat may be more expensive in Norway than in Sweden, but why is it that avocado is more expensive in Norway than in Sweden? At least there can't be Norwegian farmers' fault. This case is about what it's like to be a consumer in Norway. It's also about the workplace of those who work at the store, but not least of those who work in the food industry, and those who at the end are primary producers of this food.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e2754	I'll start with a few explanations of vote. We have had a good debate today – I will come back to it. As regards proposal No: 1, on which there has been some debate, I can inform you that the government parties are going into it, and as a result we are drawing proposal No. 11th@item: inlistbox Furthermore, the government parties will also vote for I and III. Then I want to thank you for a very good debate and a very important debate. I also think the previous speaker, the representative Pollestad, was within a lot of what is important, namely that this is about a lot of people. It's about jobs. It's about producers. As I was in my main post: it's all about everything from the farmer and the fisherman to the commodity importer, to the food industry, to the merchants and the merchants – thousands of people who have come from this, and the whole population who get the food they should have on the table, both safe food and, hopefully, food at the right price. There's a lot of concepts, and there's a lot of factors. It's border trade. It's charging policy. It's agricultural policy. That is the level of costs. That is a competitive situation. It's industry-sliding. It's power concentration. It's vertical integration. There is access to premises. It's our own brand. It's distribution. It's geography. It also means, as many people have said, that there's a reason why this message says it's not a dot. It's rather a colon, because this is an area that's going to demand and deserve political attention and authority follow-up for many, many years to come. Then I just want to make a brief comment to the representative from SV's almost automatic conclusion that if someone has become rich, something has happened wrong. It's like right now that the world's richest man at the moment is called Elon Musk and driving a car. There is no lack of competition in the car industry that has made him rich. That's because he's very good. So it's possible to get rich without doing anything wrong, or that competition is not good enough. That being said, we agree that in this industry competition is not good enough. That's why this message and the summary are when we vote for this on Thursday, a colon.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e2769	As I was in my previous post, it is gratifying that the Progress Party has received a majority for most of its proposals in this Communication, but there is one proposal that we are still on our own. That's to allow the sale of beer in gas stations. It has nothing to do with the liberalisation of alcohol legislation, but it has to do with non-discrimination. Daily grocery stores that are allowed to sell alcohol also have the opportunity to set up petrol pumps and charging stations. At the same time, refuelling stations are not allowed to sell alcohol because they sell, in accordance with the alcohol regulation, ‘essentially, petrol, oil and other goods necessary for the operation or maintenance of motor vehicles and motorboats’. It gives the refuelling stations a clear competitive disadvantage. The Progress Party therefore proposes to repeal §3-4 of the Alcohol Code, which prohibits kiosks and service stations from applying for sales authorisation in line with the daily food industry. It is a proposal that most modern parties should support, because it provides non-discrimination. The centre party should also support it, because gas stations and kiosks are an important offer to people in the districts. The income from alcohol sales will make these more competitive and will be able to provide people in the districts with cheaper food and a better range of products. Then I have to express my joy at the fact that an overall committee wants a frontier trade barometer and asks the government to present its own case in order to reduce border trade and ensure the competitiveness of Norwegian business. It will show how great the scale really is. It is very gratifying that an overall committee under the pandemic has been given the opportunity to create jobs in Norway, if one is able to reduce border trade. It warms a progress party heart, and I hope Stortinget can also attend and significantly reduce the level of fees. The Progress Party has managed to get through significant tax cuts on goods exposed to the borders and hopes to further reduce the level of charges. Finally, I would like to comment on the proposal of the Centre Party and SV, on a ban on own brands, also called EMV. It is surprising that SV and the Center Party will prohibit the food chains from selling their own brands in their own shops. Shops shall be required by law to sell only TINE, Nortura, Prior, Stabburet and other established producers. I am very pleased that the proposal does not get a majority in the Chamber, because the Progress Party believes that both price and quality competition will be improved when the chains sell their own brands that challenge the established brands. I am also very pleased that the Advance Party will have a majority to improve the labelling of the EMVs with the producer and the country of origin of the products, so that consumers can make informed choices. We work for a daily message to the consumer's best.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e2782	I would also like to thank you for the debate and for the fact that there will be even more wide-ranging solutions to important proposals. I think that's good. It shows that there has been a constructive discussion through the work of the Committee, and there has been a constructive development from Steensnæs to present its investigation in 2011 until now. I'm glad, because the main questions are still: what do customers earn, what does competition serve, and what builds up the healthy, good development of the grocery market? It's the three questions that it's important to answer. There is no final answer that is given here, but I think it is dangerous to have a black-and-white input into this, which I feel a little bit that SV has, with very concrete, bombastic solutions. For example, even with the three chains, the distribution of food – the daily food system, the daily food area in Norway – is actually working quite well. Now that we've been through a crisis, it's shown that it's working. We have shops mostly across the country, about the same prices, good quality and relatively similar range of products. That's the ratio, but that doesn't mean everything's hurting well. It is therefore important to continue to work on the food market and to ensure that the focus is on the customer, to strengthen competition and to ensure that by decision we do not prevent positive developments in a completely important food market. Illuminated customers are an important task. I agree that labelling is very important, and I believe that goods that are not well-lit and well-marked will not be accepted by the customers afterwards, because there will be more and more focus on it. Dominant actors who abuse their position really have nothing to do in the groceries market. We want to eliminate that ratio. Transparency is very important. Transparency and understanding of how this works are important in this context. The size has pointed it out, and we're doing something about it. The importance of ensuring access to the market for different producers and operators. Much has happened from 2011 until today, but much has to happen even after we have finished this treatment. I am very pleased that there are so wide-ranging solutions around so many important proposals, to just strengthen the customer's position in the groceries market.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e2793	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e2798	The party of progress, there we have a party! In a comment in the settings, it is black and white that they are very concerned with free competition and least regulation. So they admit that here the competition doesn't work, here a regulation has to be made. Then they're on proposals to frame their own brands in some way – there's really no one who knows the consequences of the decision that a total collapse will eventually come to pass – but they're from taking out a ban on their own brands. If the Progress Party had been occupied by the consumers, if the Progress Party had been occupied by the majority of people, they would at least agree to a ban on own brands. It is not that one should prohibit First Price, but that the chains should not be able to own that type of brand, just to increase competition in deliveries. That's how we're going to get lower prices, so it's going to be a pricing policy for most people, but it doesn't mean the Progress Party is going to implement.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e2805	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e2824	The background to the interpellation on battery cell production in Norway is twofold. Firstly, our soil has an acute and great need for us to pollute less and consume less of its resources. Secondly, Norway’s trade balance has deteriorated in the last eight years. We need something new to live on as the revenue from oil and gas goes down. The last numbers from the SSB show that in 2020 we had barely 10 billion. kr in excess of foreign trade, including petroleum exports. If you ignore the revenue from oil and gas, the deficit in 2020 was 312 billion. kr. We know that the revenue from oil and gas is going to go down, and it's urgent to convert Norwegian business. The Labour Party is not alone in believing this, the NHO report ‘Next move’ points out that Norway needs 250,000 new jobs in the next few years. At the same time, Norway can industry, and industry in Norway produces lower emissions than if it has the same industry in most other countries. For those who have visited an industrial plant in China or in Russia, this is visible only with the naked eye. We know that government requirements for emissions to the environment, together with the CO 2 tax, have given a pure Norwegian industry. Skilled skilled workers, who have been organized to a large extent, have contributed their creativity to improving operations in enterprises around the country every day. It has made Norway one of the world’s highest productivity and most rational work processes. The need for green transition – and the world’s best industrial nation – citizens in order for us to bet on the battery value chain. The report ‘Green electrical value chains’ just points to the battery value chain as a major opportunity for Norway. So does Process 21. As I have written in the interpellation, battery production on own land is also a strategic issue for Europe, which in 2017 had less than 1 pst. the production of the world. At the same time, it is a huge market opportunity for Norway because the market for batteries in Europe has doubled since 2018, and McKinsey has estimated that it will be doubled by 2030. SINTEF believes that battery cell production can provide 10,000 new jobs in Norway. With Europe's Green New Deal and circular economy investment, together with Joe Bidens Clean Energy Transition Plan, the market for battery cells will grow enormously. The interpellence focuses on battery cell production, but Norway has great opportunities along the whole value chain, from the extraction of raw materials used in production to the production of cells, the compilation of batteries and not least one of the most important: recycling. The President referred to the very correct initiatives mentioned in the interview, including: FREYR. In addition, we now know about Beyonder and Morrow, and the last one is that 82 municipalities have announced their interest in being a host municipality for Equinor, Hydro and Panasonic's initiative to build a battery cell factory. I see that my local authority believes that the municipality of Narvik may be going to the final when they evaluate 82. As a business politician in Northern Ireland, it was FREYR's planned establishment in Mo in Rana that aroused my interest in this type of industry. They believe that they should create 2,500 jobs in Mo in Rana, and that is incredibly important for Northernland. The strongest industrial environment in North Norway is located in Mo Industripark in Mo in Rana and will provide excellent cooperation opportunities for FREYR. There's surplus power in the region, and the production they're planning here is not done anywhere else in the world on a commercial scale. They're collecting capital, and now just before the weekend, the news came that $7.5 billion. kr from investors in place. I would like to congratulate FREYR on that, because it is not obvious that you are able to raise such capital for a new industrial investment. The aid granted to them by the Norwegian authorities so far is 9 million. kr from Innovation Norway, and then they have applied for Enova. It brings me to policy and framework conditions for creating new industries in Norway. What does the report say, "Green electrical value chains," what does Process 21 say, and what does Battery Norway say, which is being formed? They say, "It's important that the government and the magnificence state that this is something they want to bet on." Industry is asking us to set clear and ambitious targets. This will ensure that initiatives for establishment will be received positively, and this will mean something for the authorisation processes. In addition, they say that it is important that Norway facilitates competitive financial support schemes. It is noted that the first full scale establishment must receive state grants and that pilots to verify the technology must receive support. In the case of FREYR, it would have been easier for them to raise capital through state investment aid, which would have relieved the risk. New industries require relief other than known technology, known industries. Are they asking for new programs? No, it's not the industry. They say, look at the whole of the tool, cooperate with each other, give us one point of contact. But we have to go in with greater support. The battery production will provide a high export potential and the Labour Party has therefore proposed in its budget for 2021 that GIEK-Export Credit should be able to contribute to the establishment of the green industry without a current export contract but in view of the possibility of building new exports. They do that with their corresponding instrument in Sweden. We also believe that we can actually use the power guarantee system to help battery manufacturers get lower prices and guarantees for their power obligations. What's the world doing around us? China is the world's largest producer, and there I can promise that they use both state ownership, state resources and everything that goes into it. But what does the EU do? The European Battery Alliance plays a major role and actively participates in the EU's major investment in IPCEI battery production, the Important Project of Common European Interest. This means that projects can be supported in addition to the State aid regulation because there are large and strategic projects for several countries. The EU has launched two IPCEIs for battery, and the number two came last week, for 2.9 billion. the euro from the countries concerned. The value – along with what private shoots in – is 12 billion. euro. IPCEI number one was 8.2 billion. in total and got 3.2 billion. from the public. Norway does not participate in the IPCEI for battery production. The Labour Party believes that we should have done so with our great need for change. But when we choose not to do that, we have to bet state instruments in other ways. We must then, and then we must ensure the framework and tax rules that allow us to reap when the new industry makes money. That's how the Workers' Party thought when we built up the hydropower, so we made it right when we found the oil, and we get a lot bigger from business because this is what it's important to do to ensure value creation and work for the future. What are they doing in Sweden? In Skellefteå, Northvolt builds a giga factory, and it has received 165 million. Swedish krone in support, including 30 million. in regional funds. Unfortunately, regional development funds are largely away from county municipalities and regional investment funds in Innovation Norway fell to one third four years ago, from 150 million. NOK 50 million. kr. This makes it difficult to support, for example: battery cell production in Mo i Rana. In Finland, the government has launched a program of 450 million. euro. When strategies are put in place by both the EU and our neighbouring countries, using financial and public muscles, there is a danger that Norway may become dependent. I would argue that there is a need for coordinated action and power when Norway is to build a new export industry. So my question, with which I close the interpellation, is: What means does the government think are the most important to establish battery cell production in Norway, and what is the government's policy to attract investment in this new industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e2865	First, I would like to thank the representative for addressing a very topical and exciting topic that is important for the future industry in our country. The government is contributing to the green transition. We want to stimulate green growth that gets emissions down, that ensures and creates green jobs. The government's goal is to be a leading industrial and technology nation. Industry is at the heart of a green transition. Increased electrification is part of the green transition, and batteries are an important part of a green transition with electrification in a number of areas. The use of batteries is rapidly increasing with ever-changing applications. The demand for batteries is increasing worldwide. Increased demand for batteries and battery technology provides opportunities for Norwegian industry, and therefore it is positive to be able to conclude that exciting projects in Norwegian industry are now being carried out in several places in the country, in a value chain for batteries. Norway, in my opinion, has a good starting point for becoming part of an emerging battery cell industry. We have a large process industry that is one of the world's leaders in many areas. The process industry already produces metals and materials that will be important in battery production. They have competence, and they're developing world-class technology. Norway has heavy technological research and innovation environments. This applies both in industry itself and in the institute sector. An example of this is SINTEF, an important technological competence environment dedicated to looking at the possibility of more efficient batteries. The production of batteries will naturally require a lot of power. Access to renewable and reasonable energy is a competitive advantage in Norway. For over 100 years, Norway’s renewable resources have provided the basis for the power-intensive process industry, and in the years up to 2040, Norway’s watercourse and energy directorate, NVE, expects a surplus of between 14 and 21 TWh in Norway. Norway is already well advanced in the electrification of heavy sectors, and we will continue to do so both on land and at sea. Electrification of road transport is one of the most effective measures to achieve the climate objectives. Through targeted policies, Norway has achieved the world’s highest share of battery-powered cars, and we have concrete targets for further electrification of the transport sector. The Norwegian maritime sector is leading the development and implementation of batteries on board vessels worldwide, and this is a result of a concrete and misleading policy and has already contributed to the establishment of battery production for the maritime sector in Norway. In the government's big message about tomorrow's maritime industry, which we recently presented, and which I believe the representative himself pointed out in an earlier debate today, we point out, among other things. that 26 ferry connections have become electrical during 2020 and that this number will increase to around 70 in 2022. Environmental requirements in public ferry offers have been an important driver of precisely that development. The government has strengthened instruments to contribute to green growth in industry and industry. Nysnø Climate investment can invest in companies that develop new, climate-friendly technologies and are further strengthened by government. Enova is another example of an instrument that makes significant investments in green industrial activities and technology development. Investment in research and innovation is an engine for sustainable growth and gives us strength to meet the major societal challenges. In the field of industrial research and innovation, the general instruments managed, not least by Innovation Norway, the Research Council and Siva, will be relevant for the establishment of battery cell production. In the state budget for 2021, 333 million were allocated. kr to the new green conversion tool package: Green platform. This is a platform set up with the Swedish Research Council, Innovation Norway and Siva, where some of the idea is to be able to raise whole value chains, among others. within batteries. We have several heavy industrial clusters in the country that are important in the work on future value creation and green conversion. The government is helping to support cluster collaboration in industry. The Arctic Cluster Team, which has been part of the national cluster program Arena since 2017, has just been featured in the Arena Pro elite series. It is a cluster in which not least the said industrial environment of Mo i Rana is included, and which includes, among other things. works actively with new green value chains, where opportunities in electrification and batteries are of what is highlighted. The Eyde cluster, in a completely different part of the country, is a so-called NCE, and the Eyde cluster has made important contributions in research and competence that have helped to realise the investment in a new battery plant in Arendal. Battery reuse will be part of a total battery value chain. We have already seen interesting examples of industrial enterprises in Norway that have started operations in the field of battery recovery. Norway shall be a leading country in the development of a green and circular economy that makes better use of resources. A national circular economy strategy is planned to be presented this spring. The government wants to have a good interaction with the industry in green conversion, and it's happening in different ways. We have established the Process21 Strategic Interaction Forum to have good contact with industry on key issues in green transition and greenhouse gas emission reduction. Batteries and production opportunities in this area are an absolute theme of the work of this Interaction Forum. The public facilitates business and investment primarily through good and general framework conditions. Publicly funded educational institutions provide well-trained labour. Access to and transfer of competences is central to the development of this type of industry. Good infrastructure contributes to efficient transport. It makes business more productive. A principle-based, broad-based tax system with low rates facilitates the good use of labour and investment in business. Over seven years, the government has prioritised tax changes that promote economic growth and facilitate green migration. Industry and business need predictable and good framework conditions, to promote investment, to reduce risk, and to increase the profitability of new and established businesses. We want to have close contact and cooperation at international level on important issues of green migration and industrial development. This is particularly true in Europe, where the EU has a central framework for its work through the European Green Deal. Norway fully supports the EU's work on the European Green Deal. The EU growth strategy is in line with Norwegian ambitions, and Norwegian industry is closely integrated into European industry. The EU has also established the European battery alliance and is working to enable businesses throughout the value chain for batteries to take place in Europe. Norway, with an advanced industry and strong environments of expertise, has a good starting point for taking a strong position in a comprehensive value chain for battery cells. We have unique access to large renewable power resources, and the government is promoting new green activities through a number of concrete instruments that support green industrial conversion and new activities. It is therefore gratifying to say that we are now working on very specific projects in industry to establish new activities within the value chain of batteries.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e2907	I thank you for your answer. I saw that there was a bit of attention around the interpellation in the Financial Newspaper. They were concerned that when there are four possible establishments running in Norway, should we not be satisfied? Do we have to do something more like land to attract such an industry? It may be obvious that I think we should do that, because we have the natural resources, and because we have the great need for new jobs for the future. I've become acquainted with Invest in Norway, which is the small part of Innovation Norway that's going to make larger foreign companies want to establish themselves in Norway – accquisition, as it's sometimes called. There are four-five people, a small unit, and I guess one of the things we could have done was to strengthen them to attract us to produce this kind of thing. I agree that competence, the broad R & D – research and development – that we are good at in Norway, our infrastructure and a society of small differences are of course important. But I think I've been clear in the interpellation that I really want something more, because this is an industry that's not just going to get what all other industries or industries have access to, but it's an industry that should get a special attention from the state. I wish it was possible to set clear targets for Norway, targets for how much we want to bet in this industry. When you have not participated in IPCEI for battery production – and it is very uncertain whether there will be more, if there is a chance to participate in it – I think you will have to try to find other ways of providing investment support, because it is incredibly difficult for as large industrial projects as this. Not even the Green Platform can contribute investment support to such large projects. I perceive that it is given most to early-stage projects, R & D projects. Then I hear repeatedly that the tax system that reduces the taxes on wealth should be beneficial to the economy. There are probably no reports that have been able to establish that it is, and the Ministry of Finance has even stated, in 2016, that there was no evidence that it worked that way, since the capital market in Norway works so well. It is a paradox that in Norway we have spent a lot of public money, not taking VAT, not charging electric cars, but not creating industry in Norway. I think it's important that, when we're going to use state muscle, we find areas where we have the opportunity to create industries and jobs in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e2918	I think the Financial Newspaper has a point, because it is a long way to prefer that we get private investors on the track when we are going to invest in large, important and future industrial projects in this country. Of course, it is also a dilemma if we from the political side go in and say that we support one project in front of another project. As the representative also mentioned in his statement, there are many exciting projects going on here, and common to them is that they have some capital in their back. That's why we have these broad tools, that's why we have an instrument that can make concrete assessments for us, precisely because from a political point of view we can't go in and pick winners. As far as Invest in Norway is concerned, I fully agree. Also attracting foreign capital to invest in Norway is a good thing. We have a different capital structure, or ownership structure, in this country than many of the other countries we're comparing to, and many times from this pulpit, and not least from the party that the representative represents, the ownership of foreign actors is being slightly lowered. I believe that it is positive if we can also attract foreign capital to participate in large projects like this, not least because it does not only have Norwegian interest. It is a common European interest, not least from a safety perspective, to be able to provide a greater share of our battery production itself. So the representative's name is property taxes. I would like to stress that I did not charge taxes on wealth. I talked about the general level of taxation, which I think is important in setting a good framework for private companies. Finally, a comment on what the representative says, the dilemma with our electric car policy: we are among the countries in the world who have managed best to get electric cars on the roads, and we have done so largely through taxes and taxes, we have encouraged people to choose the environmentally friendly option. That's good, and it's a success story. We don't have much of that output, but when we have instruments like this. Nysnø, i.e. when we have ways of going into capital in exciting future industrial projects, we spread out the possibilities we have as a state to be inside the owner's side – not directly, but through Nysnø. I believe that overall there is a lot of exciting happening here, and I think it is so good to see that in the whole country they now facilitate new and future industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e2931	I have to say it's very funny that the Storting can debate something that's top topical, because it's actually being mobilized along the whole coast to compete for establishing battery businesses. Then it becomes important, when a new type of green industry comes – which may not be completely green, but at least is forward-looking, we need batteries – that we look more closely at how the instrument, the role of governments, regulation, etc., can play a role. Just from my county, Westland, I think there are ten actors just to the last application, and it's very natural that they're along the whole coast, where we have access to force. But then I read in Bergen's Official Journal today, that Corvus, who has established himself on their own, but with the support of the public, has entered into cooperation with Toyota, where they use the battery technology from the car and transfer it to ship technology. They plan to produce batteries for 400 ships in a year. In addition, Corvus will move its head office from Canada to Bergen, and it represents a significant number of jobs. So then there's a connection between what's been done within cars -- electric cars, like Toyota and heavy international companies, who are just coming to Norway because of technology, and building up under that industry -- and the maritime sector, where we have the advantage, and where we can create more jobs. It's very good, and it's an important step closer to green shipping. Then there's another side to the matter, and that's that there's scarcity of the substances we use in battery production. There should also be a leadership position for Norway, linked to sustainability. It's about both re-use and the production of drugs, but it's also about being more aware of building up a mineral industry when we have such good control over both working conditions and how we're going to use our resources. Then it is gratifying that the construction industry wants to use batteries from cars to install in the house, so that the batteries that are not finished can be used perfectly well to charge energy in the house, either from the sun or from other sources. It is also very good that the waste industry gets involved, so that you can take these substances out so they don't go further into nature. So it's important to see things in a context. The main challenge is access to power. It's a little special in Norway, energy country number one, where we're used to having energy, and where we thought we would have plenty of power at any time. There are several areas – parts of Nordland, Haugaland and the mountain area – that lack power for all the plans they have, including battery plants. Then it's incredibly important, and there the state has a role, to be able to prioritize infrastructure, so that we get the power where we want to establish it. It is absolutely vital for the Workers' Party that we use the power to maximise value creation in Norway, to maximise employment, and, in general, export values linked to this industry and what we are developing further. Then we have an opportunity to take a global position – we're usually good at that, we're good at cooperating across – but we also need to find the niches that enable us to connect it to the battery, as we have done in large parts of the export industry in the past. And then I've learned that maybe what's the biggest obstacle to conversion is the silhouette we have in Norway. This applies to industries, but it applies not least to departments — and perhaps also to committees — to seeing things in a context. Because with a new economy, new business ideas need to be developed, and there are new value chains. It is also necessary to look at the role of authorities — whether in procurement, in legislation or in the instrumentation and how it is organised. Being able to sew this together thinks the Workers' Party is absolutely crucial in the future. So I hope that we can be curious, learn and be a little seeker and flexible in terms of the needs that appear, because conversion is going fast, and that's very happy, but then we have to be on the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e2946	It has been a long day with many debates, so it may soon be that one feels a little out of control. But we tolerate a discussion about industrial construction and battery production as well. It's important to get a new industry to Norway. I am so pleased that I feel that the view of the Centre Party on industrial construction has gained more support. In the past, politicians weren't supposed to feed. I think I heard the Minister of Industry say this too. It's very old-fashioned thinking and very old-fashioned approach to industrial policy. I am pleased that LO and NHO support a more active industrial policy, and I think we should have a more targeted and active industrial policy. Then we have to emphasize what is the advantage of Norway. Good access to power shall, is, and must always be, a competitive advantage for Norway. We should not make it a problem that we have a lot of economic power in Norway. We shall have much and little power in Norway, and we shall have national control over that force. And we're going to use that power to build industry. So I think it's a good idea to learn from our failures. An industry that we have built that can say everything is wrong is the windmill industry. We don't have Norwegian ownership, we have foreign ownership. Local communities don't get anything left – they should have. And the windmills that are being set up are someone other than those that both politicians and local people experience that they have agreed to in the concession process. Then there'll be trouble. One may be disunity in a lot, but I think most of them are a few that in the windmill debate there is a problem. We need to learn from this so that we do not make the same loss for other types of industries. There are, as has been said here, many municipalities dreaming of getting their own battery factory. In spite of this, it is important that a local requirement is made, that one understands that the product to be supplied has a value, that it is the municipalities that are the strong party, and that it is not the ones that come and will have built the factory to dictate the conditions and have Norwegian municipalities set up against each other to subdue each other about who can make fewer demands. We have to take care of nature and the environment when we develop these factories. Don't put these factories on cultivated fields. We must have honest communication with the local population: one will see a battery factory, it will not disappear, it will be visible – it will be an operation. We have to be honest about this. In his speech, the Minister of Industry addressed this issue with environmental requirements in public ferry services. Yeah, that's a very good example, but no, that was a very bad example, because for a few of these ferries are built in Norway. Too much of them are not even built in the EU, they are built outside the EU. The center part thinks that we have to go through the requirements we set, and see if we can do things for more people to be built in Norway. As the interpellant had in mind; the trade balance is worrying. In the face of the anxiety, I will warn against the presumptuous. The right has a very large communication department in Stortinget, and they have a large communications department in their party. They have posted the following poster on Facebook today: Right: Create more. Left side: Guess more. This was so good that during the debate the representative Kårstein Eidem Løvaas found it worth sharing this status. So well said, he thought it was, but it's just stupid. Right-hand talk about the wealth tax. If they had meant half of what they said about that tax, they should have removed it now when they have the prime minister. The centre party wants to build up a new industrial policy, and we see that after the elections, there is a room for action to put in place a new industrial policy, where we use instruments in conjunction, where we use ownership, where we use private and state capital together, where we look at charging policies, where we have targeted instruments against industries that we have threatened, where we facilitate job creation in Norwegian natural resources. That's what's going to be the most important thing for us in the future. I want all the municipalities that dream about their own battery factory, happiness, but remember: Still requirements, be tough – this is what they have to live with for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e2969	I thought I'd start with a global perspective. We are in the middle of a pandemic, and this has led to huge crises worldwide. It is estimated that these various crisis packages target industry and industry at around 87 000 billion. kr globally. What's interesting for those who have analyzed this is that these crisis packages have a very clear green device. In Western Europe, it is estimated that a user will spend 30 times more than the entire Marshall aid, converted into crowns today, on reconstruction. And when it applies to the European Green Deal, 37 pst is. of the entire package aimed at climate change objectives, plus that no projects that cause significant damage to the climate and environment can be financed through the Green Deal. So one is out of the question. In the United States, Joe Biden just came with his package – 17 000 billion. kr. It's about 3 pst. GDP. For comparison: If Norway were to use 3 pst. of GDP, we would have had investments this year of 650 billion. kr. So Norway is not an offensive state in this context. What characterises us is that we have a tax subsidy on petroleum, which became stronger in ours, and which has made the government-emergent selection Norway by 2025 mean that these subsidies delay the conversion of the oil and gas industries. So we've made sure of an activity now, but it's going to weaken us pretty dramatically in time to come. Norway is actually going on with a gray repatriation. The Labour Party and the Centre Party have actively participated in ensuring it with the Government. It's a huge loss, while industrial locomotive is passing us at high speed. Projects of Common Interest, PCI, is an invitation from the EU where countries in the EU and the EEA can join, and two ‘battery trains’ have already gone into which Norway has not participated. What's interesting about PCI is that it opens up to get an exemption from the State aid regime so that one can have a direct government financing pot. Not only battery-limited, there are other types of trains going there. However, Norway did not participate there, which will lead to countries like Sweden – a neighbouring country, which is involved in these projects, being involved in both rounds and bets hard on green energy, etc. – will be a much more interesting place to invest than what Norway is. So we're providing both a tax subsidy that undermines the green shift, and we're not participating in those projects that allow us to open up to green projects, like battery production. There are also other interesting projects within the European umbrella that we are not in either, such as the European Clean Hydrogen Alliance. Active, green industrial policy is the new wine. This is also the background to the presentation in SV of a major project that we have called the Green New Deal, and which eventually gets the name People's Green Change, which is just about taking back the active industrial policy to create a change. Then you can't continue to have a gray bet, which is now the trend, and which is contrary to what is happening internationally. I think we dug our own industrial grave – to put it that way – if we continue to believe that giving so much space to the petroleum industry through our budgets and tax subsidies is the way into the green shift. There's nothing to suggest it. The government's own experts say that it's the opposite that happens, and that what's happening here with us is undermining research projects like battery production. What's interesting about battery project – which is part of the projects we've set up in the Green New Deal – is that the world's need for batteries explodes. We see what is happening on land, that all transport is going to be electrified and get battery, but also what is happening at sea, where we have a significant role in developing future shipping, a green maritime sector. And we have sun, wind, and that kind of thing, energy that must be used immediately or must be stored. So here are the enormous possibilities for a country like Norway, which has both mineral deposits, a lot of power, and so on. But nothing big is going to happen if we are not a little better than neighboring countries and other countries to facilitate the relationship for this type of industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e2984	Thank you to the interpellant for an important debate. I also take the floor because I represent the Committee on Energy and the Environment, and there are many questions here concerning the Committee's field of work. I'll get into it a little bit. This represents a little bit of the green shift we're already in, and it's fun to get involved in the transformation that's now happening, to be so close to it. This has become very close to many municipalities, and we see the interest that it is around to facilitate. So they've gotten a little green shock out there, because the demand from Panasonic, Hydro and State Power are, among other things. at least 1000 more targets are required for the construction of a battery factory. At least in my neighbouring municipalities, around Gjøvik, Raufoss, Toten, you might say: We have 250 targets up there – no one has shown any particular interest in it for a while, but there is a power line going on there. Fortunately, we were out early and started to coordinate the actors, and today the three municipalities have come together with three plot alternatives. It shows that you have to get a little ahead here to be in – call it – a race, which is now underway. On the other hand, what if 175 municipalities were to expand 1,000 target areas a little bit overnight? We're talking about a climate challenge, but we're also talking about a natural crisis, so it's not all the areas we're going to build down, it's also part of this discussion. But that's very good what happens now, that you map out areas: what is it that you have of potential, what are you going to use or not use those areas for? I have experienced during these months that they have joined this green race for battery factories, that Innovation Norway is rusted to be part of this. They've gone ahead, at least inland, have used the Team Norway bet well and have resources to deploy and can be involved in that mapping. Some actors ask for a data centre establishment of perhaps 2000 targets, one should have it as isolated as possible, while other actors ask about something that is close to university or higher education, of established infrastructure, of established production, so there is a wide range of demands made by actors. There I feel that Innovation Norway is rigged to be involved in this, has contact with the actors out there, because this is also a big export effort: move capital to Norway and move actors to Norway who want to establish themselves here. Test centres are already well developed, and in some areas only Norway has some electrical test centres to offer, or windmill bets or wind bets, which have more come to the West, among others. to implement. So that's the infrastructure up there, because it's clear that there's significant power to it. It also means that there is an infrastructure to be provided. And that web has to be in place. It's also part of the clarification relating to which areas we're going to use. It is not done overnight to expand the network capacity needed, and the effect that is needed, for some of the very largest establishments. It is therefore important that national actors also participate in this planning. It also applies in the ICT sector, where bits are to be bitten and bitten. That capacity must also be there, so that the environment of competence is important. Data centers are also part of this. In addition, research and development infrastructure is the instrument, and with the green platform we are well rigged for this in Norway. Human capital, human capital, is one of the reasons why many people look to Norway, as well as that we have stable democracy, but we also have stable supplies and capacity on that infrastructure. Then was the Center Party within its industrial structure. Well, I want to say that there's a policy that's currently a little bit like a poorly tuned TV antenna, it's very hard to understand where the Center Party will. One day, the policy instruments are used; the other day, it will be up to other actors to drive it forward. We have just taken back control of wind turbine development in Norway, after the Senterpartenaria put it on a wild tender. There were some consequences that meant that we have now had to step in and stop. So that's obviously not all the answers the polls capture.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3007	I think this is a very exciting theme and would like to thank the interpellant for taking up this interpellation. It's incredibly exciting, and I have to say that we could have an interpellation for each of the bet areas that will really take over after the oil taps have to be gradually screwed back out there on the base. My colleague, the representative of Knag Fylkesnes, mentioned some of them – hydrogen, it could be liquid wind turbines, wind power, it could be autonomy, we're huge on it. There are many areas of activity. Then I am very happy that the head of the Environment Committee was also up on the platform and had some points here – there are some but we have to think about. It also had the representative Pollestad, who rarely talks about the environment – he mentioned the environment. It was actually a thought-provoking post from the Senterparti representative. We're going to be a little careful, we're not going to go in the same trap that we've done in terms of wind power on land. These are land-intensive areas that are required — mentioned by the last speaker — and often talk about 1000 targets. We've seen how it almost becomes some kind of cannibalism in order to get these to their place. It may be healthy, but you have to be aware of the land use. And then I think you're going to have to start setting up a kind of hierarchy of what kind of industry we think is good: gives enough jobs, gives enough export revenue, how much power is used, etc.? Then bring me a fasit! Maybe this is amazing. Then there is a moment that I have not heard mentioned here in the hall, and which I think should have been brought on the track. It's kind of interesting for me to ask the Council of State – I see she's on the list of speakers here – if she could answer the question of ethical assessments of battery production, and how much it is now within the government's perspective in this sector. We know, for example: Very good at Amnesty's commitment, around that 70 pst. Of the cobalt probably comes from Congo, and we know what's happening there. We also know that low-cobalt batteries are on their way, and there may be other alternative sources of batteries, but this is an incredibly important question. I think the person who manages to position himself here, not just on cheap power and land, but on ethically sound battery production, and that you also have environmentally sound battery production, might win that competition. Because there's no point in beating one environmental argument with another, or that it's at the expense of something else. So I just want to ask the Minister of Industry if she can answer this with ethical considerations in the government and what thoughts she has about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3025	Thank you to everyone who has chosen to take part in this debate. I think it's important. The Council of State said in its statement that the state should not pick winners. I think it turns out from the interpellation that I believe that the state should pick winners sometimes, go in particular and bet because you want a place with an industry, and you want to achieve both green conversion and many jobs. It's not like when we pick winners, we're going to make it blind. The representative Nävra was in on it. I think the number of jobs that lie here is incredibly important, because according to the NHO, Norway needs 250,000 new jobs to replace those that are going away from oil and gas. Remember, when the prime minister we have today became prime minister, we had an export surplus of 250 billion. kr. Now we're down to 10 billion. kr. Oil and gas are going down and going down. Soon we'll do more than what we sell for, and that doesn't matter. When it comes to creating and taxing, I think it's something of 'cluet'. When we are going to build new industries, we have to create good framework conditions. We have to build up that values are created, but we have to make sure that society gets back, so that we can have the good competence, so that we can have the good infrastructure, so that we can have the good society that Norway is. Actually, it's the tax that gives us the opportunity to create good Norway, it's not just something we pay. I agree, of course, that the State must not distort private capital. It will always be a mixture of public and private capital. It's not like the Workers' Party doesn't like private capital, but I think government ownership has proved useful by multiple crossroads in Norway's history, as when we decide to form Equinor, as when we form State Power. It's also not what's been my main point here, but risk relief in the form of investment aid when there's new technology, when it's unknown. In fact, Norway also has cobalt on its own land, and it is not that we should leave other countries with very poor working conditions to do so alone. I think recycling will be an incredibly important part of the strategy. I still want clear strategic targets to be set for a battery value chain in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3040	We have an active industrial policy in this country. We are creating a good framework for significant investment in our industry, not least in the battery industry. I think I'm good, I think I'm exciting. We focus on research, we focus on innovation, we have key tools to contribute to green growth in industry and in our business. We have an instrument that is a heavy player for the green bets of companies and that is helping to lay the foundation for the innovative and new Norway. Once again, I want to draw up the Green Platform, which is a whole new way of working, which sees the whole chain together, where the Research Council, Innovation Norway and Siva are together about it. A question was raised about this with ethics. To that it is first to say that it is not possible to answer it in a final post. It's a big and complex question that almost requires its own interpellation, because here it's working on different fronts, and there's a lot of answers that need to be included in it. The Ministry of Children and Family continues to work on what we have in the Granavolden platform related to ethics and human rights and self-regulation on it. I spoke in my article about the need for reuse, recycling of batteries, circular economy and how we have to facilitate it. The interpellant himself took this up with the mineral industry. We have a great mineral industry in this country, not least in the state from which the interpellant itself is from, where it is important to facilitate a green, sustainable extraction of important minerals in our own country as well. There are important values, and there are important jobs. Here there are many things that have to work together to make the best of the production that is going on in Norway, and that may also be more likely to happen here. Then I would say that the government has an offensive and green industrial policy. I would like to take this opportunity to remind the representative Knag Fylkesnes that it is the Stortinget that adopted the big package of petroleum last year. The government presented something quite different from what was adopted. Through that government, the Left shows what we can do with the Right in terms of green conversion and the balance between petroleum and the green shift. We showed that we got more with the Right than the SV was able to get the Workers' Party on when that package was to be landed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3051	That is when the debate is on case No. 6 done.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3067	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3074	We live in a time when many services are digitized. This also applies in the transport sector. In the budget proposal for 2019, the government pointed out the need to modernise the road user and vehicle area through a good and accessible service to users, while achieving the efficiency targets set for the service. The overall objective is to establish a new service delivery model and service provision for future needs. The time horizon is before the end of 2024. More and more services can be provided more efficiently and more easily through digital platforms and the Internet, and without physical presence requirements. An example is the re-registration of a car using a PC or a mobile phone. The latter is the creation of electronic driving licences, which were launched in 2019. All changes are aimed at making it easier, fairer and faster for the user to make use of the road services of the State. As a result, fewer and fewer people need to meet at the traffic station. This will be further reinforced by new tools offered to the different industries. The service delivery model has been subject to change for several years. This has mainly been done by entrusting the tasks to private operators and by the users themselves to carry out the tasks of the self-service solution of the state road system. Periodic vehicle checks, licence production and initial registration of vehicles are examples of the fact that today many of the tasks of the State Road Administration were carried out earlier. Nine out of ten first registrations are made today by car dealers by the state road service offering tools that enable them to do so. The department considers this to be faster, safer and cheaper for dealers. Although there is good evidence that the number of services requiring physical presence is significantly reduced and will be further reduced, the majority of the Committee is concerned that changes in the structure of traffic stations must be gradual and in close cooperation with business needs. And here, distance is also a moment. In many places, establishments operating in vehicle-related activities have established themselves in close proximity to traffic stations. Another aspect is the need for driving on a motorcycle without having to drive disproportionately long. The majority point out that today’s offer of riding yards at individual traffic stations is of crucial importance not only for motorcycle uplifts but also for the actual training. In the proposal, the majority emphasises that any structural change must not be made until good solutions are in place to ensure that the need for physical attendance is permanently reduced and does not have a significant negative impact on people and nutrition. The first thing that strikes you when a reads is the many suggestions from the opposition: 73 proposals in total – all equally. Their comments reveal that this is an opposition that chooses to go backwards into the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3093	The last few days’ media posts from the government parties and the Progress Party have been strange. On 28 October 2018 Minister for Transport Dale placed the following order with the Directorate for Road Transport: ‘New service delivery model and structure means a reduction in the number of service locations, personnel and the relocation of offers. [[...]] The economic impact shall be included in the assessment. It is intended that the conversion plan shall be decided upon and the necessary conversion measures shall start by 1 June 2020 at the latest. As part of the streamlining process, a specific assessment is requested of the tasks that can be performed, in whole or in part, by private operators, for example, tasks related to the completion of driving tests and courses related to the development of driving competence.’ In addition, the State Road Service has been subjected to cuts all the way — cut over and above the cheese mats. This order and subsequent reports have led to the closure of many competent employees. Who wouldn't do that if your workplace were proposed to be closed once and for all? The Labour Party has repeatedly asked the Government that reorganisations and reduction of regional offers should be dealt with in the Stortinget. We have always opposed the closure of important offers both for business and for residents. We are not against effective and new methods that make services more accessible to people, but then they need to be able to make services even better, not worse, for us in the district. There are now many times long waiting times for uplifts because there are no sensors — and this is long before the pandemic, even if it has not made it easier. It's been like this for years now. When I talk to business and employees, it turns out that the closure and weakening of the offer is already well under way. We are therefore promoting, together with the Centre Party and SV, 73 similar proposals that each traffic station should be maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before being reorganised. Then we are pleased that the government parties and the Progress Party in this matter and with our proposals use the opportunity to stop a bit. Thus, these proposals have been addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3114	Then the representative Kirsti Leirtrø has taken up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3119	In the last few days, there has been a strange experience in memorabilia where you have registered representatives who have been dissatisfied because they might not have boasted about the matter themselves, and were very dissatisfied with the decision. I think you should be brilliantly satisfied when you take care to ensure a good offer for everyone across the country. It has been the starting point of the Advance Party. We've wanted to look at simplification, how to make things easier. It has been the starting point of the Advance Party. We've made sure that you get your driver's license directly on your cell phone. That's good. We have also made sure, through discussions with the government parties, that you no longer have to travel and physically show every single mobile home to be registered, because it has to put in place a solution so that it can be done digitally. It is in the same way that you had to travel with each car to the Car Authority in order to have the documents issued – now you have to do it electronically. It's being forward-looking. Unfortunately, the Arbeiderpartiet sits completely still and looks back and wants everything to be as it was before. The Progress Party does not. In addition, this case is quite special, because the Progress Party had a proposal in the Grand Duchy that the Presidency, with the Vice-Presidents of the Workers' Party, made sure to stop, which went on a further proposal. What the Labour Party is proposing, what we are dealing with today, is actually one traffic station, because the Vice-President of the Progress Party was more liberal and made sure that this matter was dealt with in the Stortinget. We're happy about that. It is from the Progress Party's point of view that we should be forward-looking, we should look at new opportunities, but we should ensure that we maintain services that allow people not to travel far, that we should not risk having more services done. Therefore, the service offer for MC, both training and driving test, has also been important for the Progress Party to ensure, and we are pleased that we have now received, along with the government parties. It is in the same way with regard to uplifts for cars. We've been trying to make sure that there's going to be good solutions for most people, and that's what you're doing now, until you get new, better solutions that make the need not be there. I actually thought that you were busy being forward-looking, but also having a service offer that was for the benefit of the users and the customers – that you should not physically have to travel and show the trailer, but can do it electronically, as you do with the car. There should be a huge improvement for a lot of people in business, who spend a lot of time on that kind of thing. That's what it's all about, but we have to have the solutions in place first, before we can do it. Now the solutions are not in place, and then the Progress Party is committed to having good solutions to ensure that people throughout the country are able to use these services, because here there are monopoly services.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3138	Thank you to the Committee for good cooperation in this matter. In recent years, the government parties with the Right Party and the Support Party, the Progress Party, have been working on a steady basis with proposals to shut down the State Road Administration's traffic stations. For the same time, communities throughout the country have protested against the proposals for closure. For the Right and Government, there has been sport in listening to consultants instead of listening to people. Repeated investigations by the government’s consultants should end up streamlining and modernising the offer at the traffic stations. Last summer, the Right and Government concluded that the offer at a number of traffic stations around the country had to be closed down. The government's proposal would mean that people would have to go further to drive up to the motorcycle, drive up to the truck, renew driving licences or perform other services at their local traffic station. Many locations in the country have vehicle and other vehicle-related business establishments located in close proximity to traffic stations, including: in order to ensure a short road for a vehicle that has to be individually approved at physical presence. For example, motor vehicles, most tractors, trailers and other heavy agricultural machinery appear physically, in addition to rebuilt vans and bodywork for lorries. The centre party has constantly warned against the government's proposal for the closure of traffic stations. We have said that public services such as traffic stations should be close to people throughout the country, so that there is the shortest possible route wherever you live. Last October we raised the matter, when we put forward a proposal in Stortinget to stop the reduction in the service offer at Statens vägvesen traffic stations. Unfortunately, the government parties and the Progress Party voted down this proposal by the Central Party. At the time of delivery, it was known that the government parties and the Advance Party seem to have turned 180 degrees. However, they will not shut down the traffic stations — at least not yet. Instead, they will ‘wait for planned closures or reductions in service provision at traffic stations’. What happens to the traffic stations is now completely blue, but we know that the uncertainty around the stations is great. The Government and the Support Party The Progress Party has previously shown an eagerness to centralise more and more services, including: police and District Courts. It is therefore quite clear that if the Right and Government continue on the same track, the traffic stations will also be centralised.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3151	As has been said sometimes by me here in the pulpit: the Ministry's underlying offices do not float in any political vacuum – and at least not in this case. They are governed by a political line, according to the objectives of the Council of State and Government. This objective has resulted in numerous reorganisations, which have largely resulted in closures and centralisations. It's indisputable. I can mention the police reform, the municipal mergers, the abolition of property rights and passport offices, the shrinkage of the Post office, the freeing of the taxi industry, etc., etc. So this is going to be the proposal to shut down countless traffic stations. It all works as it should: impoverishment of the countryside and centralisation, housing pressures and other urban problems. In addition to centralisation, this has led to uncertainty and frustration for many thousands of employees. We've met many of them and received recordings from them, not least from the transport sector. And then think about the road sector. Just think about the closure of the joint road administration, the transfer of county roads to the county municipality, reforms in the state road system, district departments to division departments, the establishment of New Roads, etc. So it's quite amazing: the government adds up to changing organizational forms and provides the basis for the etat's proposal for countless roadblocks. So they record a local resistance and the compact resistance from the red-green opposition, and see, of course, that the Progress Party sees that this is exciting, it's opposition in the people. Then the Progress Party hangs itself on. And then you see that there's going to be a different majority in the hall, which is dawning, and then it turns in eleventh hour -- that is. some signals came a little earlier, in the summer of last year, for part of the traffic stations. Maken! This is a strange affair. I must smile a little bit at the representative of Hoksrud, who believes that he has almost saved the traffic stations – almost saved the traffic stations! As far as I have registered, they have had a couple of government councils before the Council of State, and as far as I am concerned, as the representative Siv Mossleth said, there has been a mandate to investigate this, and reports have been made – all on the guard of the Advance Party Councils. What action can we take to prevent centralization, so that people don't go to the city, and give people an offer where they live? Well, then we can just say no to the kind of madness that it is to shut down traffic stations. It's these things that create this centralization. It's probably a nail in the chest to Norwegian village death. A nail here and a nail that becomes an entire spike pack, enough for an entire coffin.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3166	The President has doubts as to whether the word «malfunction» is to be regarded as a good parliamentary expression, but should allow it to pass, in so far as it is concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3171	The representative Arne Nävra is at least funny to listen to, it should be certain, although there might be some unparliamentary concept. I believe that the phrase in the proposal for a majority of the Committee, which consists of the Right, the Progress Party and the Left – and I quote: ‘Any structural change should not be implemented until good solutions are in place to ensure that the need for physical attendance is permanently reduced. [[...]] There have been some cuts in the sea in terms of law and stuff, and you might have to come back to make this more effective. For example, today there is an EU control system for private cars that work well. Perhaps there are new things to think about when it comes to commercial transport cars, which are often rebuilt and have to be checked. It's perhaps where we've noticed the most frustration out there in our users, that they should now have to drive several miles and long distances in order to control their vehicles. In addition, to Bård Hoksrud: Yes, we got our license on the mobile phone, but there was no less traffic at the traffic station of it. There was just less need to meet up at the traffic station we thought this would lead to. So we may have been a little impatient with the State Road Service in that these were not matters that were to be resolved immediately. It was made up to a long time perspective. I think today's decision is completely in place now. We need to be even more confident that there will be a lasting reduction in the needs of each traffic station and that service, through digitisation and other ways of doing it. Only then can we carry out such a reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3183	Better organisation and new technologies allow us to work smarter and offer better and faster services to people and businesses. As part of this, the State Road Service is in a big shift to renew and improve the floor. The goal is better services for the inhabitants and more roads for the money, while the floor is subject to savings requirements. In recent years, the state road system has focused heavily on the development of digital services and self-punishment solutions, and they have delivered well. Today, many of the services provided by the State Road Service can be carried out on a mobile or PC home from own homes. This also provides better services for users, which in most cases would prefer not to appear at a traffic station for example. to have his car reregistered. The government has therefore previously adopted a reform of the road and rail transport area. The aim has been to implement the reform by the end of 2024. The reform shall facilitate the right of the future, user-oriented and efficient services through digital solutions and new service models. This part of the reform continues. The Traffic and Driving Area provides services related to the driver’s license and driving gear requested throughout the country. It is still so that some of those services require a physical encounter. The running test is a good example of such a service. It is therefore also crucial that people have access to the services they need, and that they should be as close as possible to people. People should be able to live and work throughout the country. Therefore, in order to be more local in nature, adjustments were made compared to the proposal of the State Road Administration, which meant that most of the sites proposed were completely closed down and that services, such as: The pilot test for MC was to be carried out in more places than the Vegvesen proposal provided. This case has a high level of involvement in many places in the country. Traffic and running services are very important to many, and it is not difficult to understand this involvement in many local environments. The Committee's configuration shows a great deal of commitment to this theme also at Stortinget. I understand that there is agreement to ask the government to wait for further changes in the service structure. Therefore, parts of the reform that deal with the new service structure of the traffic stations should now be removed. I now want to have further dialogue with the State Roads Agency to see how we can best proceed with the reform of traffic and running gear, even without changing the structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3196	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3201	The Council of State has had this case caught quite a number of times and with efficiency requirements as its objective. I would like to address a problem that is being addressed in this reorganisation reform. Sensors say that where they were previously very concerned with road safety, working with the police and working interdisciplinaryly with road safety as a goal, they have now, in the signs of the reorganisation, only got a job as sensors, and that is one of the reasons why they stop. The waiting time for a driving licence has been very long, up to six months some places, and the undersigned have asked questions about it. The question to the Council of State is: What measures can the Council of State take to ensure that those who are going to drive up are offered when they need it?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3208	It's often the case that this with efficiency requirements is viewed as somewhat negative, but I think it's necessary for public etats. I want to boast to the State Road Administration that they have done their efficiencies, and that is good. So ask the representative about something very important, about how do we, for example? shall maintain road safety. Then I want to say that the signal that traffic safety is being reduced is not a signal I like, and I want to see that. It's important that it doesn't happen and that one doesn't give the sensor the impression of it. So yes, we're going to make things more efficient, we're going to make things better, but it's not going to compromise road safety. Some of the goals we have with these services are that we should be able to do things differently, but we have to keep the quality. I am now recording that the structure is fixed, but we are still trying to improve the services, for example. through digitisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3215	One of the most important services is that citizens are given a driving licence. The driving licence is something you take only once, so people just feel that the waiting time is there right there, and then they don't make demands again afterwards, but the Labour Party believes it's an important job to make sure that the people get the services they need, when they need them, and this is easy to do. The present proposal for a decision reads ‘weaned’. The question is: how will this process proceed now? Can employees be sure that they have jobs where they are? Or how long will this be before there is any notice of termination of a traffic station now?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3222	I did not respond with the time to take a driver card. It is an important question raised by the representative of Leirtrø. One even knows that when one is 18, even a week is a long time. I would like to say that the Swedish Road Administration has done a pretty good job. We experience the Korona era, where the waiting time is just getting very long – they've managed to bring her down. Focusing on having the waiting time down is important in this area, because there are, of course, enough leads that we want to do and do something about. Now we say that the structure is solid, and then we work with the content, how we can make the services better, how we can ensure digitisation. The point is that once we have done that part of the job, when we have secured better services, a person will come back to the structure. But I feel that the job I have been given here from Stortinget is to get the services better, and then when it is done, a possible return to the structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3229	I would like to thank the Council of State for the cooperation around this. Now, when we keep the traffic stations, it's like a lot of customers and users going there experience that it's almost a fixation. It's almost worse to get into a traffic station than to get into Norway's Bank. It's almost the hardest place for ordinary people to get in. I realize it's pandemic etc., but it has to be possible for ordinary people to get into a traffic station without having to do a lot to get it done. It would have been interesting if the Council of State could say something about how he sees it that the state road system, as said, is almost a small state in the state – it is very challenging – and whether he could also say a little about when he thinks there might be a digitisation solution for the car dealers that allows you to approve the cars without having to physically meet up at the traffic station. It's clear that it would mean a lot, and the consequence of the closure would have been that many people had to travel maybe an hour or two to show each van. Unfortunately, the Workers' Party will not agree with the proposal to ensure it in a good way, but at least it wants the Progress Party, and it could be okay if the Council of State would say something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3236	I might start by answering the last one first. In Stortinget there is a call-up decision that goes on precisely this by providing simplified approval schemes for buses. Part of the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance, in fact most of it, and although it might have been tempting to have both the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Transport at the same time, it's not like that, so there I have to work with the Minister of Finance just to look at good solutions in that area. I am also concerned about the representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, who also mentions: we want access to the traffic stations. There is a considerable amount of work now associated with corona and infective restrictions. We actually shut down the country, and then it was taken down a lot in the short term. Then we've been busy making sure to record it again. This is to be done in the field of infectious diseases counselling, but I will of course see to it that we get the most openness possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3243	Self-service and digitisation are government's mantra today, but we're not quite there that people, including young people, can run up in a separate simulator connected to the home PC or to the mobile phone. Nor are we there that mobile homes, tractors and trailers can be displayed via webcam. But we know that many more checks are needed, for example to prevent fraud in heavy transport, and traffic stations can have an important role here. I would like to ask the Minister when he sees that young people can drive up digitally, for example. to tractors, or when grandfather can show the camper via Teams. Or are the proposals of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV a better solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3250	For example, this with buses: it's often people who sell cars, who have to show the cars, and I hope that it doesn't take too long to get into the traffic station with buses. These are serious actors who drive well. That's what I think it should work for. We've seen what kind of digital revolution we've been through here—thinking if someone had told me a year ago that even we in this room would be as good digital as we have been in the last year. So here it can happen a lot, for example, as the representative Mossleth points to, with a webcam – approval of tractors, for example, that way. Here, I think there's more possibilities. The state road authority has shown the ability to work well digitally, so here I think there are a lot of possibilities, and that's the possibilities I'm asking the state road authority to now work well on further.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3257	Thanks for the answer. The centre party wants traffic stations close to people across the country, and this waiting proposal from the government and the Progress Party is much weaker and uncertain than the opposition's proposal. It seems that this is something special that is designed not to shut down traffic stations in an election year, that is why the government agrees to this. I want to ask a very specific question from the real world. The government had, at least at least, no concern about imposing on a person in Finnland who was going to drive up to MC, 15–16 hours of travel on the way up. Does the minister think it's an ok distance to a traffic station, and that it's a service close to people?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3265	There was a proposal from the State Road Administration that just went on with MC, and when we looked at that proposal, we actually chose to ignore the professional council we got from the State Road Administration, and put MC training and the possibility to the closer people, because we thought it was important that it was in the vicinity. I myself have grown up in District Norway. I think that the supply of some of these stations has been at least as good in District Norway as in some of the cities of Norway. We might be aware of that, but it's also an advantage for District Norway that we're busy with. We're not going to continue with structural changes right now. Now we're working on what we have to do, and here I and the State Road Administration have got a marshaller to continue working on digitisation and look at that kind of better solutions. Once we've done it, we can come back to structure, but it will of course take some time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3274	I would like to point out that such closures that have been proposed have far greater ring-effects than what we might first have thought about, that jobs are lost, and that you simply cannot drive up. If you take a place like Sauda, there it is, for example. a country line at secondary vocational driver training school. They depend entirely on the established ambulatory solution for uplift there. If it disappears, the country line at high school will disappear. So my question to the Council of State is, does he think that the proposal that is now available as a majority proposal here in the Chamber – a majority decision, it looks like – will also ensure the ambulance service?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3279	Yeah, that's what I mean. So I also think it's important to understand that when we from the state's side evaluate that kind of change, we don't just have to look at what's state's bill, we also have to look at the bill for people out there who have to go further, and for companies that have to go further. At the same time, we must not fall into the trap that no changes should be possible. I noticed that the representative Arne Nävra mentioned the post. The post is an example of a company that has been in transition almost continuously for 20 years and has done so in a very impressive way. I myself work in Posten at the post office at Rubbestadneset. It disappeared 15 years ago, but paradoxically I believe that those who live in my hometown are more satisfied with the postal service today, because it's close to the store, it's longer opening hours, and one uses the Post less today than one, for example. did 20 years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3286	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3293	In recent years, the various variants of the government of Solberg have made it its parademic to centralise a number of services under the cover of efficiency and digitisation. There has been little talk about improving the efficiency of those who have lost their services. Today we talk about traffic stations. Over several years, the government has made a number of proposals involving the closure of traffic stations and the reduction of their supply. Using hired consultants, the government has spent a lot of money and resources unearthed without the solutions being put in place, which we have also confirmed today. As often as government parties have presented their alternative proposals on the centralisation of traffic stations, the Centre Party has protested, precisely because the government's proposal on the centralisation of traffic stations merges into the range of proposals leading to poorer services for people around the country. I am hardly alone in having received many enquiries from people and businesses that were worried when the proposal for the closure of the traffic stations was presented. As a representative of Eastfold, there has been an impression of the local involvement, also from the representatives of the government parties, which has been shown to the traffic station at Wiesen. Inhabitants and businesses have protested, marched in torches, had signature actions and cross-political actions. A clearer signal that this government is not in line with the inhabitants and the business community, we are not getting. It is also contrary to the promise from the Right that large municipalities would be allowed to retain state services. At least it did not happen in the inner Eastfold, if we are to take on board the government's original proposal. When Government Parties now propose to await planned closures or reduction of service provision at traffic stations, temporary relief is warranted. But we must not forget that this fight must continue. The government's postponement of its plans for closure reminds us of the need for a new government that chooses to see the whole country, see people and see the needs of business. This means a new government with the Central Party from the autumn onwards, which can be a guarantor that important services such as traffic stations are not laid down but developed for the benefit of people and businesses throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3306	Joda, there was great cheer and full cheer from the Right, Left, Christian People's Party and the Advance Party in the Inner Eastfold in local viewers and on social media a few days ago. In fact, quite a few days before the committee gave its opinion, it was said to read that now they rescued the traffic station at the Mysen. Then I thought to myself that it was good. I was even about to press ‘likes’ on the post from the Right-Representatives in Inner Eastfold and thought that it has now been done, and they should have boasted about it. But it wasn't like that. The traffic station at Wyatt wasn't saved. The right hand administration and the death sentence of the Progress Party over the traffic station – and traffic stations – are in place. The kill should only be expected a little, as it says in the setting. You have to "wait," it says. Traffic stations and the provision of business and residents are still located in the chair. The right hand side and the forward side shall only be ‘weaned’ by switching on the current – probably not because the current is expensive at the moment, because it is, but because it is a choice soon. So the Progress Party and the Right have realized that they have a bad case, and now they're going to try to save themselves, because this is a separate proposal, which has been mentioned here earlier today, that they've come with, and then they understand that it was so bad that now they have to try to save their own skin by saying that they're not going to shut down these traffic stations now, they're just going to wait a little while. But they're to be laid down. It is a premise in the proposal that the government parties and the Progress Party will vote for today. This is just enough a nail in the chest of district policy. The Right-wing Government and the Advance Party do not understand the districts. They're centralizing, and they're laying down. Commodities and tax offices are mentioned here. Yes, they even put down the whole Eastfold and moved it into a structure they called the Viking, and no one really understands the sense and point of having. That is why I fully believe that the Workers' Party's proposal, which merely states that the offer at both the Wysen traffic station and other traffic stations should continue – sentence, no uncertainty and no doubt – is the very best proposal for these traffic stations and the offers there. But unfortunately, the votes of the Progress Party will not be in favour of this House.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3319	I have to admit, it's a little fascinating to hear the way our proposal is interpreted. What we are concerned about in terms of traffic stations is to continue the good work of the State Road Service for several years already in progress, developing this offer for the benefit of citizens around the whole country. When we talked about centralisation, I sold a car for a while back. Then I sat in my own living room with the buyer of that car and reregistered and sold it within 5 minutes. It was a task that you had to go into a traffic station to solve earlier. It's just this kind of development concept that it's important that we keep going, keep moving the offer over to each one, so you can solve it from your own living room, instead of meeting up with a special place to solve that problem. Something much closer than that, I guess it's not possible to get there. To call that centralization, I think is a special description. That's just the kind of thing we have to keep having a click on. I experience that in this case the state road authority has done a good job over many years just to develop that offer at the traffic stations. We want to keep doing that. Neither can we, in my opinion, lock ourselves into an eternal structure. I want to challenge the opposition, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV, little on the 73 proposals they propose in this case – one proposal for each traffic station, which is to be continued with the functions and services the traffic station had before the ongoing reorganisation. Does that mean that we're going to cancel any improvement in offer that makes it change something about the functional and task composition that's at that traffic station? Is it the case that the world is going to stand still with these 73 proposals until the Storting has a new case in which to adopt some new function, if any? I mean it's almost to hermetize and, as the representative Igstad said, maybe go backwards into the future, just because we see that we have to be in a constant mode of development. People have to be allowed to get a better service offer when it's right. But we also say in our proposal that we believe it is too early now to do some significant structural action because we have not come far enough in that improvement in supply. That is what our proposal says. I think that's a real way of dealing with it, a way that also makes us still in a constructive development mode with regard to these traffic stations, but now we're not making any changes to the supply structure and structure, simply because we have to get a little bit more involved in improving the service provision to people. Then we can rather take a new assessment of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3330	First to the representative Place: what people out there are responding to is that they have to drive miles to get a driver's license or miles to get the necessary half-yearly control. The proposal for a minority concerns the fact that we are to be guaranteed an equivalent offer also in the district, and do not pass on the cost to the one who is going to drive up, or to the business community. It's just as important for business not to run these miles. The Progress Party says that their proposals were rejected by the Presidency. That's not so nice. They have had four earlier occasions to vote in favour of either the Labour Party's or the Central Party's proposals. The Progress Party voted against the proposals that we have now made, with some amendments, at the latest at the time of the examination of the languages of the throne. In proposal No 8 we have a supplementary proposal on the situation in Saudi Arabia. They were very happy there on 1 July because it was announced that the travelling driver's licence categories C, CE and D would pass. Later they have been informed that their offer will be cancelled. I have been to Sauda twice and looked at the important job the school is doing for the transport industry. We need 30,000 drivers in Norway, and we need bus drivers in particular. In Sauda, they teach the students what meets the drivers when they drive in District Norway: narrow and curved roads. They deliver well, and this line means a lot to the school, to Rogaland and to the county. Fortunately, the Council of State has now withdrawn notice of closure, and for us it is important that both the county council, the school, the employees and Saudi are now able to secure the continuity and development of the offer. As I said, the transport industry lacks 30 000 drivers, so we can't put down what works well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3343	I reacted in the same way as Lauvås told me that he reacted, when I saw the media layout from the government parties and the Progress Party, where they now claimed that they had saved a number of traffic stations. It was very good, I thought, but great was the disappointment when we saw the proposal in committee from the same parties. No – they have not saved the traffic stations, there is nothing to secure any traffic stations or not to lay down, it says ‘expected planned closures’. If you've got the death sentence and are waiting for the execution, and then the sentence is postponed for a few months, one is not saved. Maybe it's a help and good for a few months, but one isn't saved. And so is this. There are no traffic stations that have been rescued. Then everyone agrees that new technology is good. Helge Orten talked that he had been sitting in the living room when he reregistered a car. That's very good. Everyone's for it. That's not what it's about, but a lot of the services have to be done physically at the traffic station. I think it takes a long time for you to be able to drive up digitally. One must meet at a traffic station. That's what this is about. And so it was the Progress Party that started this. Black on white, the State Road Administration was commissioned by Minister for Transport Dale to restructure, among other things. the closure of traffic stations. It's not a matter of talking away from, no matter how high a raise your voice. This created great commitment, and I have to say that the feedback was unison: people were opponents of this locally, in addition to municipalities, regional councils and others. Business was against it. Transport companies, traffic schools and driving schools were very opposed. Young people who were about to take driving licences were strongly opposed to the closure of the traffic stations. And the employees of the State Road Service were concerned about the flight of skills, as we also heard Kirsti Leirtrø so well described. This was simply a bad proposal from the Progress Party and the Government. Therefore, it would have been in place if we could today have decided that the closures should be stopped. We don't. There will not be a majority for the proposals tabled by the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre Party. Instead, the government parties and the Progress Party sell this as having saved the traffic stations, but they have only waited for the closures to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3356	The Central Party wants traffic stations close to people throughout the country. We will maintain the traffic stations on the Mysen, Ørsta, Sauda, Stord, Arendal, Tynset, Leknes, Narvik, Fauske, Bodø, Brønnøysund, Sandness Lake, Lake Mosjön, Rana, Finnsnes, Lakselv, Churches, Steinkjer etc. There are a total of 73 traffic stations I could have mentioned. I took the word to make it clear that although this waiting proposal from the government and the Progress Party may be the special design to avoid laying down many traffic stations in the election year, it is a little better than nothing. It's a very weak and uncertain proposal, and it's actually hard to say that it's a slight step in the right direction, because it's just a wait proposal. The uncertainty I think is very great, and it's incredibly negative. That is why the Centre Party abstains from voting subsidiaryly for the Advance Party and the Government's proposal. We believe that our proposal, which we have promoted together with the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party, is so much stronger that it is what must remain as the only option for us. But until the fall there is a choice, and then it will be up to the voters whether they will still have centralization with the right government, or whether they will have local services with the Center Party. We are the guarantor of services near people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3365	This has been a strange matter to sit in the hall and follow. I thought this was a cause for joy. I have understood that we are not going to shut down traffic stations in Norway. I thought it was the intention of both the opposition and now the Progress Party and the government. The husband of a sucker! I thought we'd be happy. It's almost so I get a little worried about what would have happened if you hadn't got a majority. Then it had to be suttering, then! The working party acts as if they have the ownership of maintaining or shutting down traffic stations in this country. We have to assume that we are in a world that is changing. For the Progress Party, we have been particularly concerned about the need for a decentralised structure in our traffic stations. We have to look at the consequences, and we have to assume that it can be very important to many that we maintain the traffic stations. Of course, when the world changes for us, SV doesn't have to worry about it, because they have more or less a goal of stopping all development. But society must and must be effective. When we add up to change, it's very important that we know the consequences for business and for people. In Rogaland, this process affected both Dalane and Sauda. There is no doubt that this had major consequences. I am very happy today that we can ensure that these stations are still being maintained, before we know all the consequences, and that one gets compensated for any consequences when the stations drop out. For Sauda with his professional driver training, such a move would have major consequences. It looks a lot better for Saudi today. I'm very happy about that, and then I think it's very boring that I'm one of the few who think it's very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3377	I have to say I reacted very strongly to the posts of the representative Lauvås. Talk about seeing ghosts at daylight day, and talk about running with horror propaganda! It was a violent rhetoric. I can reassure the representative from Eastfold that the traffic stations will pass, and the Wysen traffic station will last as long as most people need it and need it. But it is surprising that Lauvås obviously still wants to maintain traffic stations that no user and no one needs – that is at least how you can interpret the post and rhetoric of Lauvås. What's the whole point here is that there can be technological change, a technological development that really makes it possible to get services home where you live, to use the rhetoric of the Center Party, and not just home where you live, but home in the living room, home in your sofa, where you sit at the PC and get all the tasks you need done. You can type-approved cars, for which the Progress Party has been passed, so you don't have to travel from Wiesen to Sarpsborg, or where you have to go, in order to approve a mobile home. When there's a simplification that really makes everyday life easier for most people, there might not be a need for all those traffic stations. Then it might be allowed to think a little bit new and different, and then it should also be allowed to look at the structure, as the government has done. But waiting for these changes to be implemented, and waiting for a better offer to the user, because that's what's the point, getting a better offer to most people – and we've seen that we're not there yet – the Progress Party has been very clear that the traffic stations are going to last. And we've never said, like Lauvås is trying to make it, that we're going to put those and those traffic stations down. It is a technical proposal based on requirements for savings and efficiency of the Road Administration and the Authority. It is quite irresponsible if, as politicians, we do not require large public establishments with thousands of employees to change and make them more efficient, that they continue to operate as they have always been, without any requirement to think new and different and to make it more efficient – look a little ahead. It's simply irresponsible. But I understand that the Workers' Party wants to operate like that, and then I also understand why the Workers' Party needs to increase taxes and taxes for most people and so-called rich people, as they are so good at repeating them repeatedly in the media. Because if you are to finance all the unprofitable projects and all the measures that most people do not need, you have to increase taxes significantly. But we're very happy that the traffic stations now exist. We are very pleased that most people can continue to get an offer at the traffic stations that are there. And that's what we in the Progress Party are going to do in the future, too, as long as it's needed, as long as people use them most, and as long as there's a market out there, to say it that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3388	In order to explain some of the reasons for the proposal, the recommendation we are promoting: if you read the report from the State Road Service – and that’s a little important – which forms the basis for the matter under consideration, you can read that the State Road Service itself draws up a wide range of alternative solutions for this. Among other things, they suggest that instead of driving into the traffic station to take driving licences for heavy vehicles, you can do so in high school, where you get your education. If you have to drive miles, you can meet in a certain place a lot closer to where you live, and then you can do it there. One of the challenges that Vegvesenet is responding to is that in many places traffic conditions are not such today – they have never been and will never be – that they maintain the quality needed to release them into traffic in other parts of the country, where there is much more traffic. There are some quality requirements that are in the process of obtaining us. So when you get rid of the campers, you're going to have a new problem that might be transferred to someone else. I don't see that it's centralization if you put down the traffic station in Drøbak, I can do the same tasks from my office – or from the living room, I'm a retired person. It's not centralization, it's much easier for me. I am down at the traffic station every five years to deliver the health certificate, because I have a driving licence in heavy class, and every five years I go to the doctor, get a medical certificate, go down to Drøbak, stand in line, deliver the certificate so they can see that it is properly completed. Then I have to take a picture – and then I get the driver's license sent. This is one of the things that the State Road Service points out as possible to make more rational. And then we see that only nine out of ten newly registered cars meet at the traffic station. It is done digitally by the car dealership. We have a school in Vestby that all the rapporteurs in Vestby have since 1964 tried to lay down, a branch school that finally had 32 students, it was a few. It wasn't possible to put it down – except now, you got to the point where the parents took the students home, out of school, and to the school that was much more modern and made much better offers. Then there was no need for it. I think that's how public services are, too, we're going to be there where people live, but we also have to be able to think that we can do it in a different way than we've been doing every year.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3399	This debate is starting to get a little bit like I remember 50 years ago, I'm so old that I remember such debates. It was the switch or the telephone switch, there were a lot of people who wanted it, because you had it around the country. We have probably passed it quite many times, everyone is sitting with the mobile phone and has direct contact, even if one is sitting in the main hall. I have to say that I had actually believed and expected of it was subsidiary voting today – or on Thursday. I hear you are very critical of the word ‘weaning’, but it is precisely that the world is moving forward. If you read our proposal, it says: ‘e.g. as a result of digitisation and which do not have a significant negative impact on people and business.’ That's exactly what's the whole point; we'd gotten a little too short in relation to the expectations we had. That's what we have to solve with the State Road Service. It is clear that the Council of State is going back to the State Road Administration and that we expect something more. With regard to the matter that we are really discussing, the Wicked Traffic Station, no one has proposed to shut down the Wicked Traffic Station. It was to remove some of the offer that was there, because hopefully there was no need to have it there anymore. It was the whole idea to see if the traffic stations and services could be arranged in a different way. But we also knew quite clearly that the Wrocław traffic station also had services that were not going to be laid down in some years. But maybe in 50 years – refers to the switch and the telephone switch – that’s not sure the need is there. But I don't know if I'm going to experience that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3415	Wicked traffic station is not only important for people in Eastfold; it is important for the Storting too. The representative Gunnes is right that the debate started there, but it has become something that it is very important that we discuss in a proper way. There has been a lot of confusion and winging on the right hand side of the party and on the right hand side of the party. The state should be a friend of people and help people to live easier and better. Overall, over the last few years, we have seen too much of the fact that, on the contrary, there has been the red tape, the centralisation and privatisation of what should be entirely common and obvious services to which each citizen of Norway should have access, no matter where one lives in the country. I have a bit of a joke, but also with some seriousness, said that it may not be that our youth should have to have access to private aircraft to obtain a driving licence. It illustrates that there are large distances and that distortions arise as costs from the centralisation of the right-wing government. Fortunately, in Denmark, social democracy is going the opposite way. There they have a new Minister of the Interior, who says that decentralization is nuclear democratic because it is the sharing of power and opportunities. It also helps to keep the state on track and grassroots-oriented, instead of sitting far away with millions of wages. This case does not merely illustrate an important principle in respect of the traffic stations. We see that this wrong policy also goes on again, for example. in the context of the rail reform, where the offer to people is weakened, and families have to pay more for the train tickets to travel, while the directors are left with the money that goes over the budget for extra million wages. That's why we have to put our foot down and say, "That's enough!" Now is the turn of ordinary people. It is time for services to be available where young people and older people are. And the older ones are the ones who are the most happy that the Working Party, along with the other red-green parties, really stands up for each of the 73 stations, because they don't necessarily sit on the phone, as the representative Gunnes says. In fact, there are quite a number of people in our population who have neither access to nor use the Internet and mobile telephony in the same way that we do in this room. That's who we're going to help. That's why we're very involved in this case, because we know that it means a lot to people. That's why the big choice is going to be that it has to be common people's turn – in the field after field.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3434	I was accused of both suing and operating with scare propaganda. I think there were a couple of other characteristics that also came, which I didn't get quite on the move. But it's quite clear that it's the tactic. When we peck the Advance Party and the Right Government when they actually do something they regret, and as they understood not to be good, they try to save their own skin. And when we poke at them and tell them that's how it relates, they're best in the class to operate with their own suture and direct misinformation. For it was just to lay down the Wicked Traffic Station and a number of other Progress Party and the Right Government initially wanted to do. But then they got cold feet, or whatever they got, because they realized that this was pissed at. They realized that people were cursed when they were deprived of the offer in their community, in their community, and realized that the Progress Party and the right-wing government sent the bill to ordinary people, because they had to spend hours, take half and all days off from work to travel and get things done that had to be done. When they understood it, they tried to escape. The death sentence, to call it that, over the traffic station of the Wysen, by the decision of the majority, that is, the Advance Party and the government parties, has come to this, is firm. They should just wait a little while to unplug the last fuse in the cabinet before moving the whole thing to Ski, or where they were going to move it. That is the reality of today's decision. One should only wait for the planned closure of e.g. Whey traffic station. The Progress Party and the Right are driving a clean disassembly of the offers to industry and the local population out in the districts. We have mentioned other examples here before tonight, such as District Courts and Tax Offices. Now we're discussing traffic stations. Then you centralize, and then you send the bill of farms to ordinary people. That's what you're actually doing, and that's unfortunately what the Progress Party today is making sure that it's a majority to keep doing. We can only state that the Progress Party as steady support wheels for the government is firmly established. The progress batch could provide a neat arrangement for the Wicked Traffic Station and other traffic stations here tonight. So they don't choose to do that, and it's a sin for the offer in the district, it's a sin for the inhabitants who need these services near where they live.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3445	The representative Myrli spoke of high outbursts from the pulpit, and he is probably not quite gone either. I guess we can essentially take each other's hands, and maybe the last talk too. We can take each other's hands all three, in this case, and talk loudly. But I have to say something about the story of the Workers' Party about what happened around this representative proposal. It is okay to bear in mind that there was one traffic station the Workers' Party would save when they presented their proposal in this room. What the Progress Party has been concerned about is to ensure that we get good services for the inhabitants. But I understand that you kind of want to sit still and hope that everything will be like it has been. I don't think anyone will return to the time when you had to travel to the traffic station if you had a new car, and show the car. You had to travel to the post office and pay, and then you had to travel away and show the receipt before you got the registration certificate. Now you actually get it done online. It's fantastic for everyone, most of them, and I think they feel that it's even closer to being able to sit at home in the parlour and fix this without having to travel to a traffic station or somewhere else. I understand that the Workers' Party will not, will not and will not. They refused to agree to ensure that they would be able to register their home without having to show it physically at a traffic station. It is also funny – because you are as concerned about all these centralisation reforms – that it is the Workers' Party and the Zenterpartie in Telemark that completes the secondary school in Seljord in Telemark. It's in the middle of the county, and I think most people will define it as a district in Telemark, but it's a great place. But those parties are dropping out of high school. It has to be a centralization, because that means that students shouldn't be able to continue going to high school there. To the Center Party, which talks about being occupied by ordinary people, money and lower taxes and taxes: yes, in Telemark they pay property taxes, which charge ordinary people with ordinary houses extra expenses. That's it. But it's clear that when you're going to maintain everything and everything is going to be like it has been, forever, it might be like that. But over to what we did, and the Progress Party has been busy: we were talking to those who were driving there, and if we didn't get the government to take the grips that one now does in the case of cars, you had to travel for one hour if it was done on the Whey. It was a cruelly bad idea. That is why we are taking the steps we are now taking – because we are busy with customers and users and the best possible services for them, and we need to ensure that they are able to get the services across the country. We are therefore also concerned with securing the elderly, who cannot use the digital services, and then we must actually continue to maintain some of those services further, including uplifts, etc. That's why we're taking the grip we're taking now, and making sure it's going to be what it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3458	The representative has good intentions, but with regard to the protection of the infection, the president would suggest that these three do not take each other into their hands right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3463	I have to say that I do not fully understand the posts or rhetoric of the representatives of the Workers' Party. It reminds me a little bit of empty rhetoric in some Donald Trump-like flares. I am a little unsure whether the representative Lauvås actually heard what I said instead. He has at least spoken his message twice, in two posts: that we save our own skin, that we have been criticized for turning around, and that we are winging after what we have been criticized for. If anyone is to criticize someone, the Labour Party should criticise its own rapporteurs, because the only thing we have done is the same thing as many Labour Party and also Senterparti rapporteurs are actually doing all over the country. In budgetary negotiations, they tend to come to the administration with general leads: they should have cut, they should have savings, but then the administration comes with, for example. savings and cuts in health and the elderly, and then politicians say no, there we should not cut. It is the same thing that has happened in this case. We've asked for cuts and savings, and we've been cut, and we've got clear feedback from people. The amazing salesman at Mysen, who has his business wall in the wall with the traffic station, and whom I expect the representative Lauvås has been and visited, was very clear that if they lose the traffic station there, he must use almost a day's work on every single dwelling he is going to register. We have clearly communicated that to the Minister of Transport, and we have received positive feedback on it. We have also taken up and decided on Stortinget that the display of each dwelling car will cease. I hope that the Minister of Transport can speed it up quite quickly, because it is precisely to provide better offers, better service and better services to people. The representative Sandtrøen has now left the hall, but he is talking about centralization and privatisation. It's the empty rhetoric that is repeated repeatedly from the left-hand side. It's kind of nice to mention that in Tynset the traffic station would actually be strengthened if this reform had been implemented as it was proposed. It won't. Then we have established the health archive. Today's government, with the Right, Left and Christian People's Party, has, when the Progress Party was present, established Norwegian health archives on Tynset with 50–60 jobs. And we've set up New Roads in Hamar. So we're doing centralization – it was a rhetoric that the Sandtrøen representative used – at least don't vote for Hedmark's part. We have rather moved out state jobs to Hedmark instead of moving them into Oslo. In the case of directors’ salaries – it was also a claim from the Workers’ Party and Sandtrøen – I would like to remind you that the director who served most of all in state companies when we came into government in 2013, was the head of the NSB. There was a salary level, with pensions and all allowances, approx. three times as high as what we can rely on when we employed the New Weiger Director. I look forward to the government providing car rental efficiency with registrations, so we don't have to show cars, and then there are also more people who get services near where they live, at the camper dealers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3480	I was really on my way out of the hall. I think it might have been just as good. But then there were the last two speeches, from the representative Johnsen and the representative Hoksrud, which make it impossible to sit still in the hall. I have asked quite many times here from the pulpit for some political honesty in this story of history, and I must say that it is completely absent here. If political honesty had been a species, it would have been red-listed. So I have to say, this is sad to see. It's good to sell things as good things, that you've voted for it, that you promoted it. But as for the story of history – when you've changed your mind, you've done something else before, or you've never done anything before, but then you turn around, and then you vote for a proposal that's popular – you might be able to present it as if you've turned the case around. It would have been great. It had given credit, and it might have given some more votes, I would have hoped. But that is not the nature of politics, and I am very sorry about that. I've noticed it several times. SV has also made proposals here in the past, in matters of transport, where we have had government councils from the Progress Party, there have at least been two of them that I could count, who have voted against and voted against. Among other things, it happened when we discussed cabotage: Yes, then, we needed a digital transport register. After all, it is delicious that the Advance Party has been freed and is outside the government. It is also great that they vote in favour of SV's proposal now, I am very happy about it, but it is presented every time as a victory for the Progress Party when they turn to things – a strange story. So I'm calling this time after time -- we're going to hope you're a little obscene about it maybe. And then I sincerely hope that someone will also tell me if I do the same, so I'm made aware of it. Then I'll try to take note of it, if I have such a story that the Progress Party is doing. It's sad to see.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3493	To the speakers of the government parties who are so concerned, I'm going to make a confession: if we get there that no one needs to meet up at a traffic station to perform any services, that no one meets at the traffic stations and the employees who sit day after day, week after week, without a single visitor, then it would be right to shut down the traffic stations. But we're not there. There is a great need for the traffic stations, as I explained in my first post. Then I must say to Jon Gunnes: Yes, the Wicked Traffic Station was proposed to be closed, completely. If he takes the trouble to read the proposal from the State Road Administration to the Ministry of Transport in the May 2019 report, he will see that it says: Whey traffic station is recommended to shut down from 2023. That was the answer from the State Road Administration at the order of the Progress Party State Council to cut the number of traffic stations. Then I understand a little bit more after today's debate. The government parties and the Progress Party send out a press release, and go out in the newspapers, that they should not shut down traffic stations, but speakers here today have argued hot for closure. The rest of us have almost been ridiculed because we don't want to shut down traffic stations. ‘Wait for planned closures’ — yes, they will put them down. They just have to wait a little bit. Johnsen even used the term "in wait". Yeah, that's it. Isn't it fairer to say that yes, we're going to shut down traffic stations, but we're just going to wait a little bit. What government parties should be more concerned about than the proposals and contributions from the opposition is how this government treats, and has dealt with, the State Road Administration – an important road development agency, for public transport, for using new technologies and for working with road safety and for reducing traffic accidents, a body that experiences severe cuts during this government and loses a great number of employees. The government and government parties should really be concerned about this and do something about it. I repeat what I said in my first post: the suggestion from the government to lay down a large number of traffic stations encountered unison resistance, whether it was in Drøbak, in Sauda, in Lakselv or elsewhere where I have been visiting. Finally, I would like to say that if it is so difficult to register mobile homes that the speakers of the Progress Party have expressed here today, I do not understand why the Progress Party did nothing about it when they had the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Finance for nearly seven years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3511	I thought I should thank you for a good debate. I would also like to point out that when the representative Navra doubts our honesty, I think he goes far beyond the limits of parliamentary vocabulary. I imagine that everyone sitting here has the same purpose: to make it the best possible for the country we represent, here and now. Now some people have gone out of the hall, but he gets to read the record. What is contained in the proposal is what I was about. I think that the state road authority in this matter has done a very good job. The state road system digitizes and says that the goal is to digitize as far as possible. Then they have some suggestions for what to do where you can't digitize enough. They point to, among others: that there are some groups that cannot be expected to follow in the digital system. Then they say that they need to find other solutions, where you can cooperate across municipalities and counties, to give them the necessary help to have security in dealing with the digital system. It applies not only in this case, but also in many other cases. What we have put our finger on then is that many of the good measures taken by the State Road Administration are measures that are in the future, and then it is too early to have a large reduction in the number of traffic stations. But the trend is towards much more digitisation. I really think everyone is happy about that. I started thinking about the usual user of traffic stations, and if it's me, I'll be there every five years, because I need a medical certificate. If it's my wife, she's there every two years, because she has heart problems. Next week we're going to lift the health requirement for old people, so I don't have to go to the traffic station at all. The usual man in the street does not use this every day or often. But what's important is when you have to take a driver's license, you use it. Then there must be an offer nearby. Some of the problem with cars is that they're tailor-made. They're not square. Much of the construction of cars is done in Norway after getting the car to the country. That might make it extra difficult for cars, but we'll be able to solve it too. We're going to have an offer to people of what they need now, but what we call it, and how we're going to implement it, we can talk about in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3524	The president now thought that the bumpers looked very square. [[muttering in the hall]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3529	I would also like to thank you for a good debate, but I would like to stress that the government has never suggested that Wicked Traffic Station be closed. Yes, we reduced supply. Now let's put it on the ice. There'll be no structural changes, and we'll look at the content. We're going to do it right away, along with the State Road Administration. But Sverre Myrli felt almost guilty about the State Road Service – when we have more than double roadways in seven years. We've got New Vegar too. I want to say that it has our innovation and a renewal also for the state road system. It's kind of like when TV 2 came. Then the NRK was significantly better, and that's actually exactly what we've seen for road development. Today, the state road system has bigger, more and more exciting projects than ever. On this part, too, they work extremely well with digitisation and innovation, and they have delivered on the efficiency requirement that we have already seen. So some of those who work there have gone to the county, but that's because the county got 45,000 km of roads in 2010 and is responsible for it. It is also natural that they have added as follows. I feel that there is a very good cooperation between the state and the state road system after that transition. I experience an offensive ethos on which there is no reason to appear sin.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3540	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3557	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3564	Yes, the matter of corporate and functional separation has been going on in Stortinget for a long time, but at least a decision was taken back in May 2016. We have been in the past since it had a transitional arrangement. In 2018, there was a discussion about sizes and who would be covered by a functional distinction. The government was then given a mandate to investigate a number of 30,000 and more. The government is now coming back – or came back just before Christmas – and is proposing 10,000. That's what government parties go for. There are different views in this matter. Someone wants it to still be 100,000, and someone wants it to be 0. In any case, it is important in an industry that is changing a lot, and to customers, that there are as many conditions as possible. When performing a monopoly activity, such as the network undertakings, it is important to have the same conditions as possible. In power companies, we have a structure that's starting to get up to 100 years old, and like the municipal structure, sometimes there's a need for change. We also have new technologies that make it possible to operate in another way. We see that in Norway we have received network companies and power companies that have around one million subscribers, so technology also creates new opportunities. Some claim that it is cost-effective to deal with the bureaucracy that would lead to functional separation, but with today's technologies and opportunities it is difficult to see why. Then neutrality is important, that there is no continuous representation, and that one cannot cross-subsidize. So the government's proposal is that we reduce the risk of disproportionate burdens by granting the exemption to only those who have fewer than 10,000 subscribers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3577	Should the representative make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3582	I'm sorry, President, it's getting a long way today. The representative shall address the proposal in question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3587	Then the representative Ketil Kjenseth drew up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3592	The Labour Party sees no reason for Norway to have stricter rules than Europe. The EU has set the limit at 100,000 online customers because for small companies it will be unnecessarily bureaucratic and costly for customers. These are the arguments of the European Union, and we support them. Norway already has strict legal and economic separation requirements in order to promote competition and ensure neutrality for network operators. A functional separation will prevent the operation and use of resources between the network activities and the other activities. The government has not assessed the ownership’s right of governance. The legislative proposal directly interferes with the right of ownership. The industry is dominated by local public owners, and the Workers' Party sees no need to restrict the ability of the owners and the right to manage the companies in line with local objectives. Many local energy companies are innovative and have been early off investing in infrastructure with automatic measurement and management systems and broadband. Increased red tape and increased costs will weaken this possibility in the future. Local energy companies also contribute to good security of supply. Local presence of people and material provides rapid correction of any power failure. They also represent important local, attractive skills jobs. Today, Norway is likely to have one of the world’s best-functioning network systems and a high level of security of supply. Energy companies have a clear focus on reducing costs and improving quality, and many smaller companies are high on NVE efficiency measurements. These include: a result of a well-functioning market, strong competition with many actors and very low margins on power sales to end-users. The Labour Party believes that the development towards very few companies would be unfortunate for customers and for competition. The experience from, for example: The United Kingdom shows that customers are not satisfied with few and large suppliers. We can't see that it's proven that larger companies operate energy better than small and medium-sized companies. Large companies have low network rentals because they have high customer concentration and low network per customer, not necessarily because they operate particularly well. What we know for sure is that a functional distinction will lead to more inefficient operation and significant cost increases, which customers will eventually have to cover. Consolidation should be based on the company's own assessments of what serves customers best, not on rules imposing unnecessary additional costs. The Labour Party sees no need for Norwegian enterprises to have stricter and more cost-effective rules than the EU, and believes that the limit should be set at 100,000 online customers, as elsewhere in the EU. At that time, 31 more network companies than in the government’s proposal will be free to introduce a functional separation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3611	The proposal under consideration today originates from the work carried out by the Reiten Committee back in 2014, which recommended tightening the rules to ensure the neutrality of the network companies and to prevent the large degree of integration between monopoly activities and competitive activities, which was the image of the day at the time, from being hindered by a more appropriate network structure. So, even though it was only six years ago, no network companies were separate from production or power sales at the time, and the companies were running a lot in addition to networks. It was easy to see that such an organisation for the future could face challenges. It could prevent specialisation, and it could create problems related to neutrality and cross-subsidies. With the future of more and more electrification, and with the needs and necessary reinforcements that needed in the network with it, concerns about whether small companies would be able to attract enough and important skills. This is about social security and our ability to meet an increasingly electrified everyday life for the future. Today, all network companies are demanding company separation, and the debate on functional separation has been a lively discussion for a long time. It is important that we now finally establish the number of subscribers to establish a functional separation. We see that the big players in the industry have for the most part seen that this is the way to go, and they have adapted to this in organization and form. The smaller companies have had this unpredictability hanging over them, and I believe that such unpredictability is far more demanding than a decision that gives them the basis for how the company will be organised in the years to come. We in the Right now hope that there will be peace around this discussion, which has waved back and forth, and with the beginning of what lies ahead of us, not least that the decisions that are taken here today are over time, and that the companies do not feel like throwing balls in a political game where reversal and rematches get the impression. There is no profit for, at the very least, the companies themselves, who now need to use the forces to develop the companies and not spend time on eternal reorganisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3622	Our society faces a major shift, and the power sector is no exception, rather the opposite. If we are to succeed in the future, there are many sectors and sectors that need to cooperate and deliver optimally. We're going to electrify a lot in the future, and a lot of force needs to be shifted around. To that end, we need solid companies with knowledge, competence and not least capital. Around us we have organized ourselves as efficiently as possible, and that is why we also have monopoly situations in many areas. Powerlines are one of them. As society is served to a small extent by two parallel roadways, water supply or renovation, we are just as little served to have more competing networks. It's socio-economic fraud, but it also comes with a lot of responsibility when we add up to such schemes. A monopoly situation can quickly become a situation in which one no longer sees innovation, efficiency, knowledge acquisition or understanding of a need for development and growth. So it's now that someone always manages to deliver, stands out positive and delivers good results. For these it is always regrettable to have an unnecessary imposition, but unfortunately – there are several other companies that do not. A distinction between companies that produce power and those that supply networks is completely natural. If we are to get an effect out of it, the Progress Party believes that it is also quite natural that a distinction is made between people who are going to do the work. We have seen similar situations in the renovation industry, when public-owned companies were suddenly about to start taking in food waste, where they themselves believed that they were able to separate the monopoly part from the competitive part. Many companies probably did, but it created situations that weren't good, and we don't want them like that. Fortunately, we see many mergers today. I think it's both important and right. We see big companies merge, we see smaller companies merge with larger companies, and we also see that there are many people who have chosen to cooperate. I am convinced that this will be a good development, and there are few reasons why we should separate the regulation from the sizes of the companies. The Progress Party therefore proposes that a functional distinction should apply to all companies, but we are unlikely to achieve a majority in this respect. In turn, we will support a limit on functional separation requirements – that they will apply to network enterprises that have more than 10,000 network customers. I shall therefore refer to the proposals of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3637	The representative of Terje Halleland has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3642	The Norwegian network consists of both small and large players. Three years ago, the Storting decided to set the functional distinction limit by 30,000 subscribers. At that time, the Center Party was standing with, among other things, Christian People's Party. At that time the Tore Storehaug of the Christian People's Party said quite well from this pulpit: ‘Some say that in our approach to the EU directive we become more Catholic than the pope.’ Furthermore, Storehaug said that he believed that "they must rely on good business solutions, and not on unnecessary bureaucracy." After that, the Christian People's Party has unfortunately gone into government, and we have received the government's rematch today, where one wants to reduce this limit from 30,000 to 10,000 subscribers. It's little pointless. It will create additional bureaucracy and cost-effective joints that will again be charged to customers. Nor is there any reason why Norway should have stricter rules than the rest of Europe. There are already strict legal and economic separation requirements to promote competition and ensure neutrality for network operators. There are no known violations of these fundamental principles. The government's proposals are in practice a theoretical solution to a non-existent problem. A functional separation will prevent the operation and use of resources between the network activities and the other activities. In practice, this will in particular provide a framework for small and medium-sized companies, which will need to extend the governance and administration. As the representative Halleland of the Progress Party said, the companies fix it well even if they need merger or cooperation. Why the Progress Party is going to red tape with legal orders against the companies is little incomprehensible. As we see it, the government has also not assessed the owner's right to control. A functional separation of companies will mean that the owner will no longer be able to optimally dispose of his resources. This means that the legislative proposal acts unfairly in the right of the owners to control. We are talking here about an industry dominated by local owners, cooperatives and municipal enterprises, where there is a great deal of consistency between the interests of customers and owners and therefore no reason to restrict the ability of owners and the right to manage companies in line with local objectives. It is good to remember that today the same companies have to have a functional distinction, whereas earlier today in the daily debate, one would not have an accounting and administrative distinction between chain and wholesale, an industry that is much more concentrated in power than what this industry is. This is purely ideological. It's a fight to gather the Norwegian network into as many big companies as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3657	This is a case that goes far back, as several of the representatives before me have been involved, and where the Storting has taken legal decisions that make the current law have a limit of 0 today. It has been clear throughout this great period that there has been a majority who have wanted to set that limit slightly higher than that, which the Christian People's Party also meant when the laws were passed back in 2015. Now we've negotiated the Granavolden, and we've come to a compromise where the limit is now set at 10,000. I think that's a good solution, and that's a good solution because one can keep the two thoughts one should have, in your head at the same time. On the one hand, we have ensured a regulatory framework that makes the rules and rules to be followed by the network operators more equal, which means that there is a greater level of non-discrimination. On the other hand, we take on the situation that is strange, that there are many small companies, and that in companies that have few customers and low turnover, there is a requirement for functional separation. That would be a disproportionate disadvantage. Then we have reached a compromise, and I think it's a good compromise, which also means that the law that applies today will be changed, if we get multiples for it. Now there is already secondary support for it. That's what I think is good, and that'll make us end up with a code that also takes on the situation that several small companies are facing. It's a good solution, and I'm glad they're now getting multiple suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3664	This is hopefully the last chapter in a long history — where the government's goal has always been to make changes for Norwegian power customers. Because the network companies are monopolies and customers are not able to choose their own supplier, it is particularly important to ensure that the network companies operate with the most efficiency possible. In recent years, we have seen that several smaller network companies have merged into larger units. This often creates economies of scale, which in turn provides lower network costs for the benefit of customers. I think that is positive. Major broadcasters will also be better equipped to implement new technological and market-based solutions that can contribute to better and cheaper services for customers. At the same time, it is important to stress that the government has not made a proposal for a requirement for transmission system companies to merge. This is still determined by the network companies and their owners. Nor has the government hidden the fact that the functional distinction could increase the cost to individual energy companies in the short term. However, economies of scale and efficiency will result in savings over time. The proposal for functional separation has created a lot of debate. The government is now proposing changes to the functional separation rules, so that the requirement only applies to companies with more than 10000 unique customers. This will spare the very smallest network operators, who avoid the cost of implementing such a distinction. The change usually encounters resistance, and we have seen that in this case as well. However, I have no doubt that it is right to implement these changes, and that a lower limit of 10,000 customers is also a reasonable political compromise. I am therefore very surprised that the Workers' Party chooses to listen more to the network companies than to the electricity customers when they propose a limit of 100,000 customers. The inspiration for this proposal has been found by the Workers' Party in an EU directive, but the reality is that the Norwegian company structure is completely different from the European one, and that such a limit effectively zeros out the whole purpose of the amendment. I therefore hope that the majority in Stortinget will join a limit of 10,000 customers – a limit that both provides electricity customers and ensures exemptions for the smallest network companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3677	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3682	It turns out that the network structure of Norway is not so unique in European terms, for both Germany, Austria, France, Finland and Sweden have about the same composition as we have in Norway, with many small companies and, of course, some large ones. There has probably been some justification that the EU has considered that the limit should be set to 100 000 network customers rather than to 10000. The question is: is there any evidence that today's companies have been involved in cross-subsidising, defaulting or abuse of the law, or any other negative link to what they have actually done, in addition to the fact that some have a little less size than the seven most important?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3689	The main reason why the Workers' Party proposed this limit of 100 000 is that they initially did not want the functional distinction, unlike the Right and Government parties, which have wanted it all the way back to 2016, when we dealt with it for the first time. Then the Workers' Party went against everything. Now they're leaning on the EU and 100 000, but the core is that they don't want this. We want it because we think it's good for the power customers, and that in the long term it will also help more people get cheaper grid rentals and a more efficient power grid. That's not how surprising it is. But if you set the limit of 100,000, this requirement will only cover six companies. In other words, then it's the same thing as almost not having it, and I don't agree with it. If we look back at the history, when you ask for documentation, there are reports, for example: from the NVE, which shows that the companies that have organised themselves in this way also offer a better price to their customers and operate more efficiently.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3698	It's absolutely right that we have big companies. In my region, we have, among other things, BKK, which is big. But we've also listened to the smaller companies, as we see driving very well from their local relationships – so we have a diversity. The working party is concerned with positive competition and innovation, because if it is too few companies, it contributes to less competition and less innovation. This is a balance. However, the Labour Party believes that this measure is not the most important. We are positive for consolidation, but not under compulsion. Now we have recorded that the Progress Party will subsidiaryly support and probably give a majority for the proposal for a limit of 10 000. How long will the companies concerned adapt to the changes, and from what date will the changes apply?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3707	After all, the size decided on the requirement for a corporate and functional separation already in 2016. There has been a transitional arrangement, and it was announced that it would come into force on 1 January 2021, so the companies have had a very good time to adapt to the change that is coming. Then they had what happened in 2018, with the exception of 30,000. The Granavolden platform in 2019 has also given a clear expectation that this will happen. The hearing note we sent out in the summer of 2020 also gave no reason to expect anything higher than 10,000. That's what's at stake, and many have adapted to it as well. So I'm not worried that the companies haven't had enough time. This I think is going to solve itself perfectly.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3712	But in any case, government parties are usually concerned with predictability, and different majoritys who have moved back and forth do not mean predictability. Does that mean that as soon as we adopt this on Thursday, it will be implemented? What's the date going to be?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3717	Those who currently have fewer than 10,000 customers have been able to apply for a derogation pending what was to happen, but when this is adopted, that is what will apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3722	I believe the Council of State and I agree more with each other than what is actually reflected in the proposal for a decision. I think we agree that we want to separate the companies that produce power, and those that have networks, from each other, and that a distinction should also apply to people. But even if such a distinction is appropriate, we see that there are some negative consequences that are brought to light by smaller companies – first of all, they have a lack of competence and knowledge and not least of capital. But if the majority now get what they want, the smaller companies would like to be charged greater costs. Is it, then, that the Council of State is concerned that the attitude is different from that of industry, depending on where they are established?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3727	I sat and had fun with the record from the last time we had this debate in the hall, back in 2015, when Tord Lien was the Council of State. Then I remember that the State Council Tord Lien was very clear that it was fully aware that this could lead to increased costs for the smallest. Of course, it's not something you want, but you still think that this will provide better solutions in the long term. At the time, Tord Lien didn't leave it hidden on – he said it quite openly and clearly – that he didn't see it as a disadvantage if this led to more people hitting together, and that it gave better offers to the customers. I'm not going to oppose that either, but that's not what we're demanding here, and that's not what's meant. The purpose is that the representative Halleland very well explained in his own article on the matter instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3733	The Council of State said that this would result in long-term savings and efficiency. Very well known also operates some of the smaller network companies very efficiently and are among the most efficient in the country in its categories. I guess we also see that when it comes to preparedness and breaking, there are often fewer breaches in the small companies than it is in the big ones. So the question is, where is this saving and efficiency going to happen? Is that supposed to happen on the emergency side? Is it the case that in the future there will be more breaks and longer breaks, or is it the way to save on the pay secretary and the administrative costs of the companies? It was also said here that small companies do not have the opportunity to be innovative and use new technologies. Very familiar were the small companies just as early out with AMS technology as the big ones. So where should this saving and efficiency be taken?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3744	First, I just want to say that I am fully aware of and also agree that there are many small companies that are good at this. It's not like they're all exactly the same, or they're all doing the exact same thing. There are good and less good examples of driving. But the core of this case is not about the cost and price, it's about the power customers, and that's where we separate layers with the Center Party. We're on the side with the power consumer. I don't know how many times I've been in this room and we've had debates about concerns about power prices, which are right now, for example, when the power price is very high, but that's usually not the concern. Basically, the worry is the price of the web rental, that it's high, and how we're going to bring it down. This is a grip to contribute to it, contributing to lower network rentals around the country. When asked where to collect costs, this is a more effective tool than, for example, one. to have comprehensive supervision and control to ensure the neutrality that companies need in order for all customers throughout the country to have an equal offer and conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3751	It's just the current customer that's also our concern here. It is such that these companies are largely cooperatives or owned by municipal enterprises. That means there's a local anchoring. As far as I know, there are a lot of these, either the cooperatives or the municipalities, who have made decisions to keep smaller companies precisely because they think that local preparedness is better, the knowledge of the grid is better. It's also in the power customer's service that you avoid breakage. So once again, where should that efficiency be taken? Is it that the Council of State thinks it's okay that we get more frequent breaks and longer breaks, or is it in other areas that we need to find the effectiveness of larger companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3758	The riding selection is really some of the reasons why this came back initially in 2015. They pointed this out as a challenge. The Productivity Commission has done the same, and there are also numerous NVE reports showing the same – that there is better operation in the larger companies that have implemented such a distinction. That's what this is all about. So I mentioned instead, among other things. that this is a matter of ensuring that, instead of exercising extensive supervision, it is through functional separation. We need to invest huge amounts in our network in the future. I also have in this room, or to be quite correct maybe in answer to written questions, responded to concerns that regional network companies do not invest enough in maintaining the network, for example. We are concerned to ensure that we do not end up in a situation where the costs of other parts of the business are shifted to what is supposed to be financing the network and having it as its primary purpose. That's what's behind this bill change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3765	The cord shift is over. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3772	I would like to sum up this debate and first of all thank the Progress Party for a clarification that they will vote in a subsidiary way for 10 000. So to a little bit of the story behind the debate we have here today. This is also about questions about whether there is cross-subsidisation, whether it is unculture, in an industry that up through time may have been a little bit transparent. It is enough to mention investments in theatre and cultural companies outside the borders of Norway. We can also go to the discussions we have about who will have the alternatives to the grid, pipes that can also distribute water for heating, bioenergy. Where interests conflict, it is beneficial to have a functional distinction to distinguish the person, case and interest as far as possible and appropriate. It's also behind the discussions we have here today. In its reply, the State Council now mentioned control and supervision, which also draws resources — the NVE has also been a major part of the debate on this. I think the Workers' Party and the Center Party are going high in defending the very smallest actors. One does not mention that many of the smallest actors are also those who have the most proportionately high power revenues and have resources to maintain. That's good. This is not the discussion we have so much today, but when one refers to 100 000 in the EU, it is not quite comparable. Norway has disproportionately large and small companies. The second relationship is that Hafslund and Eidsiva have joined Elvia and now they have one million net subscribers. It's in an area where the Central Party and the Workers' Party have a political majority and have not cared about it. If one had been so worried about the big ones, it would have been natural for one to care a little bit more about it and not let it happen without any political attention to it – if small is always the best. It tells me something about Hafslund and Eidsiva – Elvia – seeing some possibilities, and I also think we should be with them to look after those opportunities among others. As the representative of Halleland said, we need a lot of green power out for a lot of new, green industrialisation, but also for consumers who need more and more green energy in their everyday lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3787	It is strange, then, that, in most other cases, the government is relying on or indebted to the EU to introduce changes, but when it comes to this matter, no, we are going to have a much stricter and more bureaucratic regime than the EU has, and that the industry does not want. Why is that? Yes, the Ministry explains that the network operator should act neutrally, that there should be a level playing field that will contribute to a well-functioning power market and effective competition. But is there really going to be more effective competition as a consequence of this becoming far fewer network companies? I have to comment that it is with documentation of miscarriage that I do not believe the Council of State answers, the question was asked right now. There are today strict legal and economic separation requirements to promote competition and ensure neutrality. We already have an own law to ensure neutrality for online companies, as well as the general principle of universality for all businesses. When, as far as I know, there are no violations of these basic principles for the industry and decisions on functional separation, this is in practice a theoretical solution to a non-existent problem. We in the Center Party want both power and network companies to ensure that our citizens and businesses are streaming in plugs, and they are doing so today. Norway currently has one of the world's best-functioning network systems and high delivery security. In my growing up north of the Gudbrands valley, the light flashed as the neighbor started the milking machine, and the primus was readily available in case the power was going to go. There is no such thing today. The true government believes that large companies and economies of scale are the best and the cheapest, are also seen in this matter. This functional distinction will be both bureaucratic and costly, which I thought today's government would avoid in the most part. No, this is a substitute argument to get a merger of companies in the industry, and if you don't want one, you're going to have one. I almost have to comment that the representative Kjeseth says that the Labour Party and the Center Party are uncritical or just letting what happens in Eidsiva happen. I would like to remind the representative that the Central Party voted against the merger of Eidsiva and Hafslund E-CO. Some of the reasons were just this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-02.ana.ud538e3802	No more people have asked for the floor for the debate on substance. Eight. This way, the map is ready for processing today. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
