ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e28	For the sake of infection prevention, the President will propose that the public gallery be closed even during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative Bears Moxnes, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. The representative, Nicholas Wilkinson, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e40	I am pleased to promote a proposal from Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Lars Haltbrecken, Torgair Knag Fylkesnes and myself to develop a climate plan for the health sector. I ask that the proposal be sent to the Health Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e45	The representative of Terje Halleland will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e50	I am delighted to promote a representative proposal from Sylvi Listhaug, Gisle Meininger Saudland and myself to electrify the socket with power from land.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e55	The representative of Nils Kristen Sandtrøen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e60	Fewer young people are getting summer jobs. Therefore, on behalf of the representatives of Terje Lien Aasland, Rigmor Aasrud, Kirsti Leirtrø, Torstein Tvedt Solberg and myself, I would like to make a proposal for rapid and systematic recruitment to ensure the summer jobs of young people in agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e65	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e81	The Stortinget received on Monday a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Jan Tore Sanner, Dag Inge Ulstein and Henrik Asheim will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We then start with the first main question, from the representative Eigil Knutsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e90	I was tempted to ask the question to the Vice-Chairman of the Right Programme Committee, but since we in Stortinget are dealing with the constitutional responsibilities, my question goes to the Minister of Finance here today. The year we've been behind us, we've set a record in a lot – record-high unemployment, record-low management interest rates, record-breaking crisis packages for treatment in Stortinget in a short time, many have experienced a record-breaking year. But at the top of the table we know that there are several people who have also made a record on record: the stock exchange has made a record, there has been a record in net bank deposits, and DNB reported that November had the highest net subscription in share capital from Norwegian private customers. Figures from the national accounts show that the average number of Norwegians has gone to NOK 24 000 plus. In other words, the pandemic account is positive for many, and those who had the most from before have got more, while those who had the least from before have gotten less. So it might seem that the Right Lives in the Mistake that there is a need among the capitalists in Norway during the crisis, because the Right's Programme Committee will give a full share tax on the property tax, even after lowering the tax on equity assets twice during the pandemic year. So the stock wealth of reality Adam, Jeppe and Henrik, as we know from the TV series Exit, should not be counted when the tax bill is settled. My question to the Council of State is: Why does he believe that the wealth of the real persons who make up the Exit characters Adam, Jeppe and Henrik should not be taxed?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e101	In the situation we're in now, in a pandemic, which has also led to an economic crisis, it's very important that we shut down the infection, and that we gradually get the activity up in business. When the government has wanted over time to step down the tax on working capital, it is because we also need individuals who invest their own money in Norwegian jobs. The government is concerned that we should have a strong Norwegian private ownership. We want to treat Norwegian and foreign owners more equally. I think it's a paradox that if an English capitalist invests in a Norwegian company, you don't pay taxes on working capital, you don't pay taxes on wealth, while a Norwegian owner does. For the government, this is about wanting strong Norwegian private ownership, that we want to spread power, that we want a better balance between state and municipality. So is it also that we have to make sure to fight inequality, make sure to lift those who have lost the job, lift those who live on low social security or low income. This has also been done by the government through many targeted actions, including: by greatly increasing the level of child welfare, by investing in cheaper kindergartens for those with the lowest incomes. But the most important thing is that we make sure that people have a job to do, and when we lower the tax on working capital, it's to make sure you have more private capital that can be invested in Norwegian jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e108	The truth is that the main reason for growing inequality in Norway is that the richest are getting richer and that they are leaving us. Nevertheless, for the financing of well-being, it is right that more people have to work. But then the numbers show that the government can't do anything about the root of the problem. The number of young people who are out of work is increasing every year under the right-hand government. The working life needs these young people desperately, and it costs society enormous sums to stand outside. Economists call the problem ‘the elephant in the action room’, perhaps because the problem has become so big. The number of young unemployed has doubled. I would then like to ask the Minister of Finance very clearly here today whether he is satisfied with the government's achievements in the last eight years in order to increase employment among young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e113	The answer to that is no. It is alarming that there is a large proportion of young people who are wholly or partly out of the labour market. So I'm glad that the representative now comes to the root of the problem, because often the debate on inequality is more about the symbols than the real cause, and the real reason is, among other things, that. that too many young people have dropped out of high school. One of the most important efforts made by the government is that more young people will receive a diploma, more will have the opportunity to study. Now we see that the arrows are going in the right direction. Fewer people are dropping out, more are completing, and even during this crisis, we have taken exceptional steps to increase the number of young people to gain their skills. I think we have to admit that this is not done overnight. It is not done overnight to bring down the proportion of young people who go on disability. But a long-term commitment to competence, among other things, can help more people get to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e122	There will be follow-up questions – first Eigil Knutsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e127	No, it hasn't been overnight, but now it's almost eight years, and now the government has also had a crisis with powerful crisis measures that they could use to try to reduce the differences. For one year, the government has been repeatedly challenged to design crisis measures that guarantee jobs in a fair manner without the community's money going into the pockets of the owners. In the beginning, the government said that claims for dividends, bonuses and executive fees would not be necessary because the companies were going to wear out so that it was not. But now we don't have to deal with assumptions anymore. Several large companies have posted or terminated employees while receiving corona support from the community. My question is: why does the Minister of Finance still not want to tighten up requirements relating to paying dividends or going to redundancies, such as the requirements of the crisis mechanisms?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e134	Let me be quite clear: those who posted workers, and where the company seems to have gone very well, and then take large dividends, should pay the money back. We know that some of the companies that took out the permits have done so, and we also know that there are several of the companies that got the compensation and that have nevertheless done well, that have paid back. There's a lot of respect for that. So the question is, had we solved this problem by imposing a ban on taking dividends? I don't think so. For how long? Does the representative think it should last until July, August, September, October? If you put a temporary ban on taking dividends, you just push it, and then you can take dividends when it's over. It is also the case that some small business owners need dividends in order to be able to live — that is their income. That's what they also need to pay their taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e143	Cecilie Myrseth – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e148	What has also been challenging and not entirely fair is about the compensation scheme for companies. There are many we have had the goal of rocking, who have not received the support they need to survive. A good example of this is founder Inge Johnsen, who runs Lian Restaurant in Trondheim. After 16 years, he now has to put out his life's work for sale. It is about the pandemic and the lack of targeted measures that have led to his being stopped. Unfortunately, this example is only one of many, and the Workers' Party has often called for an additional grant for these companies, i.e. a turnover-based scheme. My question is: When will the government ensure that schemes are put in place to secure enterprises like this restaurant and assess measures promoted by the Workers' Party several times?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e160	There has been good cooperation in the Storting between all parties about the arrangements that we have put in place. The government has also shown that if an application-based automated grant scheme is to be set up, it is not possible to make a full pass at the millimetre. That means that someone falls outside. There is also a background that the government parties and the Progress Party have now agreed on significant funds via the municipalities, because the municipalities can take account of the differences between the companies and can also see who is most affected. Before Christmas we agreed on 250 million. NOK, and now in the last package almost 2 billion. kr, approx. 1.8 B.C.E. NOK, which is distributed via the municipalities. I see that many of the municipalities that have received that money pay them out quickly – and that money hits, and then it becomes more fair.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e167	Cecilie Myrseth – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e172	The challenge is that there has been too little willingness to listen. Nor is it yet willing to adjust the scheme to improve its performance. That's why we keep looking at examples of too many companies falling between two chairs, because you don't make the necessary adjustments. Our proposal for a turnover-based scheme is one of those. We have also had suggestions on our own actions for entrepreneurs, because it is seen that these are companies, especially start-ups, who have done exactly what we have asked them to do, whether it is green or what it should be – and then they fall between two chairs. The problem is that the government has the same standardised answer every time, and that's: we have such good arrangements that we can't make adjustments, because it'll be demanding. So I ask again, when will the government be willing to make the necessary adjustments on the basis of the concrete proposals promoted here in the Stortinget, which the industry itself says would have made better?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e179	With all due respect — there have been major adjustments and adjustments during this crisis and also a variety of arrangements. What's the problem with the Workers' Party is that the Workers' Party is turning the jacket after the wind. In periods where many want more money, the Workers' Party wants higher thanks, more liberal schemes. If there is any suggestion that someone has got too much, the Workers' Party wants to tighten up. If there's something business needs now, there's a consistent policy. We have put in place good arrangements, and we see that Norway is one of the best countries in the world. So I know, because I'm listening to businesses, I'm listening to employees, that there's a lot of people struggling. There are many who have seen their life's work fall into ruins. The arrangements we have saved many jobs, but we have to admit that in such a deep crisis as we are now, which is the greatest crisis in modern times, there are also some companies that are failing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e186	Sigbjørn Gülsvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e191	Many workers and businesses around Norway are severely affected by the pandemic. Inge Johnsen, which was referred to here in the meantime, has pointed out to TV 2 that there would have been a need for both more predictability of the instruments coming, more flexible by allowing the State to cover more of the permitting costs, as the Senterpartie has called for, and reduced VAT, which the Senterpartiet has also raised. What the Council of State has to take over is that there are business managers around Norway who are now at risk of losing their life's work. Some give up. One can talk about the arrangements that are established, but the reality in Norway is that businesses that went well up to the pandemic have to give up now because the arrangements are not good enough. Why has the government not been willing to participate, for example, in the proposal for a reduced rate of VAT, to reduce the costs of permitting more and other measures that could have saved businesses from going bankrupt?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e196	I register that now there are several representatives who want more favourable arrangements. A few weeks ago, the sound was different. Then you wanted to tighten in. I believe that we have had good cooperation between government and big business, and between the parties in Stortinget, and that we have found good arrangements. I believe that the Senter Party has come up with several good suggestions. The Labour Party has done the same thing, and overall, arrangements have been found that I believe are reasonably good. Then we also have to recognise that in a crisis like this, the companies that will go bankrupt, although there are fewer bankruptcies both in 2020 and so far in 2021 than it has been before. Many have deferred taxes and, for that reason, have not received any bankruptcy requests. We are assessing the financial arrangements all the way, and I have said from the start of the crisis, that the financial instruments will last for as long as the crisis lasts, but they also need to be adapted to the measures to protect the disease, because we cannot have financial measures and measures to protect the disease that go in the opposite direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e203	Kari Elisabeth Kaski – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e208	The representative Knutsen started his question by referring to Exit, and I can recommend the Stortinget to take a look at that series if you want to know a little bit about his internal socialist, because at least there's a lot of reason for that, I think, when you see the consumption and the wealth that's there. We now celebrate – if you can call it celebrating – one year’s anniversary for the pandemic to hit Norway and the closure. It is also a year since the government presented its first crisis package. There were only measures for businesses. It was deferred payment of property taxes. Since then, the government has also cut its wealth tax into both revised and state budgets. Nevertheless, there is no impact or impact on the economy or unemployment, as a study from the London School of Economics also showed just before Christmas. My question to Sanner is: How does Mr Sanner think that the crisis packages and their consequences would look like if the government had made an impact on its crisis policy a year ago?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e215	Just to refresh your memory: the crisis package we presented the week when Norway shuts down was made before the decision to shut Norway down was taken. It takes some time from the start of work on some measures, and until they are presented to the Stortinget. So the first crisis package – and we said that at the press conference as well – was made before the shutdown decision was taken. We notified the same day that there would be new measures because it was necessary. That weekend when all the parties sat on Stortinget and negotiated the package of measures, the Prime Minister and I sat down and discussed a new package of 100 billion. kr. We can now say that the measures taken both on the infected and on the economic side have contributed to Norway being among the world’s best-performing countries. I believe an important reason for this is also that there has been good cooperation between big business and government and between the parties in Stortinget. Together, we've done it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e222	Kari Elisabeth Kaski – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e228	I'm still a little curious, because the Minister of Finance points out that they put and discussed a crisis package 2. It was the bank package that was discussed at the time – loan guarantees for banks in order to be able to support the companies. On the part of the government a year ago, no initiatives were taken to ensure the income of workers. Right now, 200,000 people are looking for a job. Many of them are long-term unemployed. Many people really know that it's tightening up financially, you're struggling to make it go around. That situation would have been far more dramatic if it had not been for the opposition, which actually got through, among other things. increased daily allowance. Of other measures for workers, there was nothing in the crisis package that came a year ago. The crisis package after that was the banking package for business. We have had this in common, but I think the Minister of Finance should agree with me that the differences in Norway would increase much more dramatically if it were primarily subject to property taxes and cut the wealth tax that was the crisis policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e233	I just notice that when it comes to proposals from the government, SV says that it's what we're talking about, but when it's all the parties in the Storting, it's the opposition. The truth is that it was the opposition and the government parties that negotiated and agreed. When the government parties in Stortinget agree, it also means that the government agrees. When we worked with a bank and bond package of 100 billion. kr, it wasn't to save the banks. It was to save the workplaces. That's how in the crisis we're in now, it's not the banks that are the problem, the banks are part of the solution. When we got in place government-guaranteed loans of 90 p.m., it wasn't to save the bank, it was to save the company, to save the jobs. And we also see that with the overall arrangements, it's probably about 20 billion. kr which has been used by the government-guaranteed loans and debt securities and has contributed to a better and more efficient financial system, which is important for enterprises and jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e238	Let's go to the next main question. The President asks the representatives to respect the speaking time. When it's 1 minute, it's not 1 minute and 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e245	That was the good Minister of Finance standing. Doomsday prophecies are in line with the government's perspective report, which was recently submitted. During the presentation, the Prime Minister said that what eats up the space for action is that people live longer — a bit of a message for the pensioners to get. The party of progress is fundamentally in disagreement: it is absolutely fantastic! Many older people are speakers than ever, contribute to voluntary work and are working to help children and grandchildren. They're not supposed to have a bad conscience. They shall be proud of the welfare society they have contributed to build up. Why was the welfare community built up? What was the nucleus? It was education, health care, help for the elderly and the sick who needed it, and retirement was the starting point for the establishment of the population in 1967. When you read the government's perspective message, the world is completely turned upside down. What was the starting point for creating a welfare model is defined as the problem, while spending a lot of money on a lot of non-core activities. Expenditure for this is not discussed as a problem, whether it is aid, immigration or integration, referred to sporadicly in this Communication. In 2017, when the Progress Party participated in presenting it, the theme was dedicated to a separate chapter. Climate action is without documented impact on global emissions. Why does the government use the energy in the perspective message to give the elderly and pensioners a bad conscience, when they should have received honor and respect for having created the enormous wealth and well-being of our country? Why is the basis for our welfare model, such as pensions, healthcare and care for the elderly, made Norway’s problem, rather than cutting off tasks that are not at the core of the welfare community, such as: assistance, immigration and symbolic climate action?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e260	Let me start with one thing I agree with what Mr. Listhaug said, and that is that our elders should be proud. It is that the welfare society we enjoy today is built up by those who went before us, by our parents, by our grandparents and by their parents again. We should be deeply grateful for the welfare society they have developed. I hope the representative, Listhaug, spends a little more time reading the perspective message. Then the representative will come up with a completely different story than the one that was now presented. The message of perspective is not about giving a bad conscience, but it is about how we are going to safeguard well-being – for our older people, for our children and for our grandchildren. That's what the perspective message is about. It's about the basic administrator idea that we have a responsibility to make sure that our children and grandchildren inherit a society that is at least as good as what we took over. That's what's fundamental. So we point out in the perspective statement that we have some challenges ahead of us. One is the climate crisis. The second is that oil revenues are going to go down, regardless of who is in power, and the third is that in time, the proportion of working people is going down. That's what's the main challenge I've pointed out, it's not the older ones. No, they're supposed to be proud. It's their welfare we want to secure, their pensions we want to secure, but it's a challenge that there's too few working. If we are to secure our welfare society, not only until the next elections, but also in the decades ahead, we need to make sure that there are more people at work. It's work that carries our well-being, and that's what the perspective message is about. Let me just end by also adding that we have the best starting point in the world to deal with the main challenges we address.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e271	Then we disagree. But it's nothing new that pessimism is linked to the future. Ever since the 1980s, we've heard that the oil age is almost over. Since then, we have had an adventurous development on the Norwegian pedestal. The Statfjord field, which should have been shut down, has continued production for several more years. ‘The major findings on Norwegian pedestal are over’, we have heard before. In 2011, the giant Johan Sverdrup field was found, which paid off the investments of 83 billion during 16 months of operation. kr. The world is going to need oil and gas for the foreseeable future. If we shut down or allow others to produce oil, we send it to Russia and the Sheiks in the Middle East. This could mean, in the worst case, greater emissions. For Norway, this means that both the country and the population are getting poorer. The future and opportunities of oil industry are a political choice. Half of our resources have not been discovered. Why does the government depreciate the oil industry? Does the Minister of Finance agree that it is a political choice to facilitate exploration in new and old areas and use the resources on the base?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e280	Let me start where the representative started. I'm not a pessimist. I'm optimistic. I'm optimistic because I have faith in Norway. I have faith in the labour force, I have faith that we're going to be able to do it. But we can't stick our heads in the sand and pretend the challenges aren't there. It is a reality that there will be fewer working age. It's a reality that oil revenue goes down. It is not about depreciating the oil and gas business. No, we show on the contrary that we can both reach the Paris targets and search for oil and gas on a Norwegian base because oil and gas production is going to go down by 2050. On the contrary, we're showing that this is going on. We need to see economics, oil and gas activities and climate in the context. We show, despite the uncertain scenarios that are that this is going on, and I believe we have to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e287	There will be follow-up questions – first Sylvi Listhaug.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e292	While the government believes that the core of our welfare model, elderly care, health and pensions, is the problem, the government clearly has no problem with the costs associated with immigration and integration. Norway spent over 15 billion. on immigration and integration in 2020 – only in budget lines directly related to this. The government claims in the message that immigration is profitable. It's mildly said to lead the people behind the light. In this case, the government in its communication assumes that immigration will come from countries similar to Norway. This has no support in the SSB population forecast, which shows that 85 pst. immigration will come from countries outside Europe and with a background that makes integration demanding. In the period 2010–2019, 203 000 non-Western immigrants who had come to Norway resulted in a cost of more than 2300 billion. kr, in a slightly larger perspective. The government says that retirement is the problem, and gives the pensioners a bad conscience. Why is not expenditure on immigration and integration also a problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e299	I do not understand why the representative repeats that the government should feel that retirement and pensioners are a problem. That's wrong. I'm just as proud of the job they've done through their working life and built up our welfare community. In the case of immigration, it is far more nuanced than the representative presents. What we are writing is that immigrants from Africa, Asia, Latin America and Eastern Europe outside the EU receive much more economically than they contribute through the life cycle, while immigrants from countries more similar to Norway, such as the United States, Canada, Australia, New Zealand and the EU countries contribute more in terms of taxes than they receive in transfers. Yes, we have some integration challenges, but we also see that integration policy is working. What works in particular is education. We see that Norwegian babies with immigrant background make an impressive social journey in our education system. They participate in higher education, and their daughters have a far higher professional participation than their parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e308	Sylvi Listhaug - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e314	Only someone puts the word «climate» on an idea or a product, it seems that public money is loose. Norway has already crashed in Mongstad and spent billions of dollars on it. Now we're about to start with Langskip. If CO 2 capture and storage is profitable and some world demand, why don't Shell, Total and Equinor, the oil companies themselves take the risk, but will push a large part of the bill over to Norwegian taxpayers? These are companies with a lot of capital. Why are Norwegian taxpayers going to finance electrification of the socket, which will provide more expensive electricity for most people and the industry on land? 50 B.C.E. kr will cost you the money. In the world’s climate, there is no documented effect, nor does Norway have its own atmosphere. The Progress Party is concerned that many actors are now looking to plug the suction pipe into the state register and collect money for symbolic climate action. The government and the Right propose an extreme CO 2 tax, which will hit hard. Why are we going to cut pensions and give older and sick increases, while we're throwing billions after symbolic climate action with no documented effect?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e329	Let me first say that I'm glad we have an ally in that there shouldn't be too much suction in the state box. We have to take care of taxpayers' money. I also fully agree that we must also make demands on climate action. We need a cost-effective climate policy, and we also need to look at its results. In the case of CCS, which is about taking care of CO 2, I believe it is an important project. We also know from other projects that on large, new technological projects there is often a need for a combination of state and private capital. Yes, the state contributes significant amounts in CCS projects, but I believe it is a necessary and correct investment. The climate crisis is one of our greatest challenges. Then we also have to be willing to spend money on it. But we must – and I agree with the Progress Party – demand results.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e343	Christian Tybring-Gjedde – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e348	The question of follow-up is addressed to the Minister for Assistance. In the last four years, Norway has used about 150 B.C.E. kr on assistance. The perspectives in the Communication presented are an annual increase of 0.8 pst. That we're going to spend 200 billion. in the next four years – at the top of all OECD countries and far more than the United Nations objective. Norway spends close to 6 billion. kr on NGOs. In Denmark, they spend 2.5 billion dollars. SEK and Sweden 2 billion. So we're going to spend three times as much as the other countries. In all industries, targets and strategies are required to achieve them, otherwise they will have consequences. In the aid industry, there are no targets, no measurement parameters and no strategy. There are no demands, nor are there any consequences. Nevertheless, the government continues to collect money in this sector. Does the Minister think that this is a wise priority for the use of taxpayers' money?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e359	The world's current situation has brought more than 100 million people into poverty. Reports that have only come in the last few days, including: from Uganda, there is a 14-fold higher risk of mortality for children and early pregnancy for girls between 14 and 19 years of age. It's a doubling of the number of people who live with hunger in a way that puts them at risk of dying. Norway’s contribution, inter alia: in the global health field has been with and saved lives for decades. I wonder if the representative knows what the NGO stands for. It's just the organizations that, despite a pandemic, have stood in the front line and worked to save lives and prevent the pandemic, and have helped build capacity in those countries where they don't have this capacity. I'm incredibly proud of what this magnification has been doing to decide, which means that we're getting there, and I'm taking part in building up capacity to counteract the dramatic consequences of the pandemic. This is only about the pandemic – there are many other fields we can also be very proud of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e368	Christian Tybring-Gjedde – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e373	I thank you for the naive answer from the Minister. The main beneficiaries of Norwegian aid are countries in sub-Saharan Africa. Assistance has no relevant measurement parameters, population growth is enormous, poverty is increasing, the number of people who starve, increase, corruption is increasing, the oppression of women continues, and the flow of refugees is increasing. The dependence on assistance is also increasing. Countries we provided assistance to in the 1970s, we still provide assistance to now, 50 years later. When all the measurement parameters for success fail, you need to change your strategy, not inject even more money and use it as a kind of excuse how many you save, when the problems get bigger and bigger and grow and grow. It is obvious that a crazy strategy has been adopted — instead of making the country independent of assistance, creating jobs and creating economic growth. That's the way to do it, not inject even more money. Does the Minister of Aid think that it is still a good way to spend taxpayers' money, when the result is not that we save some people here and there, but that the big macro image is that it is actually getting worse in Africa?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e384	It is now the case that development cooperation and many of the aid organisations have enormous requirements for documentation and follow-up. We presented the results portal, for which both the Progress Party and other parties have been involved and organised, which shows just the good results in sub-Saharan countries and in our partner countries in Asia and Latin America. I really just want to show that there's a lot of stuff being said here that's not right. There are a lot of clear measurement parameters, and that's a good result, and there are very strict demands and results in the investments we're following. I am incredibly sure that if the representative had taken some more time to go in and look at them. The result portal, he would also have discovered it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e391	We're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e396	People in the north have been overlooked, tried and run over by this government for seven years now. The Nordic part of the country has experienced a massive centralisation of public services, which it sees in the field by area. Now, when the SSB comes up with its new numbers, we see that the northern part of the country is being emptied of people, and not only the towns and small towns, but there are also big cities, like Tromsø, that have population decline. If we take the years 2019 and 2020, the population decline in the northernmost part of the country was 7,746. There were 7,746 more people who moved out of the northernmost part of the country than who moved in, according to the SSB – a massive centralization. In the government's briefing, we can't find a word about the northernmost part of the country. There is no analysis of the importance to Norway of emptying a part of the country for people, of experiencing such a powerful centralisation. This has not taken time to assess in a 20, 30, 40 year perspective: if you continue this development, what does it mean for the Norwegian economy? What does it mean for our country if the centralization we now have continues? Then is my challenge to the Minister of Finance: When a Minister of Finance is going to present a statement on the perspective of which Norway we are going to have in the future, what challenges we have with regard to the economy, demography, climate, international movement – enormous with themes – why does the Minister of Finance think it is not relevant to address the enormous centralisation we are now seeing? Will the Minister of Finance come here with a new grip to reverse the developments that we see especially in the northernmost part of the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e405	It's not quite right, the Social Violence Vedum says, that you haven't touched on the challenges of centralisation. It's addressed in the perspective message. What we're also showing is that centralization isn't something that's come in the last four or eight years, it's been a reality even in all the major periods in which the Central Party has been in government. No matter who has been in government, there has been a centralisation. It is also true that during periods of high immigration, there has been a good population growth also in northern Norway, while in recent years, when immigration has been low, it also means that several municipalities experience a decline in the population. It is also an element of this that immigration has helped to secure settlement, while tight immigration policies, low immigration, have contributed to fewer people. I believe that the most important thing we can do to ensure that people can live all over the country is to ensure a good industrial policy. If there is one part of the country that has really shown power and growth during our period of government, it is North Norway. North Norway has had good growth, good development in its business life, but there has been one challenge, and there is access to skills, access to skilled labour. Enterprises have not got the labour they need. That is why the government has also been committed to the lifting of competences, from kindergarten, school, vocational education and higher education, precisely to ensuring that businesses can have more workforce. It also shows some of these studies, that one of the reasons companies have not been able to invest any more, have not been able to hire more, is that they have not got the labour they need. Here we have to see the context. Investment in industrial policy, commitment to competence is a focus on North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e415	This is where the Minister of Finance talks deliberately or unconsciously about the population development of the three northernmost states. The number I used was 7,746 net emigration from the three northernmost states, which has moved out of the three northernmost states. The population has decreased by about 25%. Four thousand. So it's not right what Jan Tore Sanner says, that it's because of immigration that one has had this development. The net migration of the country part is 7,746 persons. So the Brandtzæg committee says that some of the problem is that private companies are doing well, but the government is centralizing. It is the public that has become the major driver of the centralisation of Norway. Today's government has been the main challenge. Does Minister of Finance Sanner think that the Brandtzæg Committee is wrong when they conclude that it is the public that is the big centralization engine, isn't it private?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e422	As State Council, I have helped to move state jobs to North Norway. When you talk about the public, it's not just about the state, it's about the municipality and the county. Who is it that sits in power in many of the municipalities, and also in the two counties that we have in North Norway? Well, it's the Center Party, so here, too, the Center Party has to take responsibility for also decentralization in the municipalities and the counties you're responsible for. I think we have a common challenge here. I do not want this to be a pingpong policy. I think we agree on the basics, that it should be possible to live in our entire country, that we should facilitate good public services where people live, that we should facilitate growth in private business, so that people have a job to do, and that we should facilitate a good knowledge policy, so that businesses get the skills they need. In the case of decentralisation, yes, the country has to move jobs when it is based, but it is also important that municipalities and counties take responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e431	There will be follow-up questions – first Tryful Battle Violence Vedum.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e436	If you look at government jobs, the number of government jobs has increased under today's government, but if you look at the distribution, you will see that there is a huge distribution of where the jobs have been laid. 261 Norwegian municipalities, according to a response from the Ministry of Finance to the budget, have lost State jobs under the current government – 261. Then you can start looking at where they are. It is classic districts and small towns all around Norway – who have lost the police, lost Nav, lost the treasure. They have lost various important state jobs, and the last thing that comes now is District Courts. The state has centralised massively: 261 municipalities. Then we see that in Oslo you start getting more and more pressure problems, with a population growth of 12 420, if we go back one year in time, and you expect there to be a population growth of 100,000 to 200,000 in the future. Does the Minister of Finance see any problems in clumping more and more people around Oslo, creating pressure problems and challenges in order to have a well-functioning housing market?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e443	Of course, this is a challenge with the pressure on the housing market in Oslo. We have very high housing prices and not least the increase in housing prices in Oslo, but the government is not moving government jobs to Oslo. We also have to distinguish between state jobs, because state jobs are police, they're universities and colleges, and that's what goes on in administration, with directorates and departments. There I think that the representative, if he goes into the numbers, will see that this government has moved jobs out of the country, and that the Central Party does not have much to boast about its history in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e448	Sandra Borch - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e453	The figures from the Central Statistical Office on the decline of the population in North Norway are dramatic for us who live there, who are happy in North Norway, and who have faith in the part of the country. It doesn't seem like the government has exactly faith in North Norway, because the numbers of relocation are a direct consequence of a wild centralization policy from the Right and the Advance Party. In recent years, the major political debates in North Norway have referred to coercion, closure and centralisation. The SSB itself says in its report that this is a direct consequence of centralisation policy. Now, the Council of State has presented a perspective message that will describe the prospects for our country – not a single word about North Norway. We also have a Northern Territory message to process. Just partying! So my challenge to the Minister of Finance is: what political action will he take to contribute to precisely jobs and to move to North Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e460	The most important thing we can do is to facilitate private value creation, and we do. North Norway is one of our continents that has had the strongest growth, even under this government. If people have a job to go to, it's an important basis for housing. The second thing that matters is education, that we have good kindergartens and good schools, that more people complete high school, that we bet on higher education, that we bet on decentralised higher education, and that we give people the opportunity to also fill their skills through working life. There are important assumptions for local housing and value creation. Then it's important that we have good public services. There the state stands up, and there it is important that municipalities and counties, where also the Senter Party is well represented, contribute to good services near people, so that people have good welfare services, have a job to go to, and not least that we have an education system that provides good competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e469	Stein Erik Lauvås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e474	The government’s own demographic selection points to challenges of the elderly remaining in the countryside, while young people move to the city. Now the numbers also show that there's population decline in District Norway. Many of the solutions pointed out by the Demography Committee have been proposed by the Workers' Party in the UK and have been voted down here in the Grand Duchy of government parties, among others. Decentralised education, stronger local economy, faster broadband deployment — there are a number of examples. So my question to the Council of State is: why doesn't the government follow up its own selection and give District Norway the possibilities that the government's own selection very clearly points to as important?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e481	It's interesting with the three points the representative mentions: decentralised education, broadband investment and a good community economy. That's the government's policy. So it may well be that the Workers' Party has made some suggestions in Stortinget. It may even be that the Workers' Party has even more money to spend. But I fully agree that decentralised education is important. It is important that the teacher who has not completed his or her education has the opportunity to combine the job with completion of his or her education or to enable a nurse to continue his or her education or that the person who has not completed his or her secondary school is given the opportunity to do so. We agree that broadband bets are important. There must be a combination of primary market thinking and State action. That's what we've done. And we've had a good community economy under this government. We can see that, among other things. on the development of the number of municipalities at ROBEK, and this is also seen in the results of municipalities. I fully agree that these are three important measures. The fact that you have a centralization over time: it has been independent of who has been in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e491	Stein Erik Lauvås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e496	This government is cutting down on decentralised education provision, and so the municipal economy is the worst in 16 years. Thus, the demographic committee that the government itself reduced as a solution to the challenge of moving away from the districts points to the need to give municipalities a stronger economy. They have followed the economy that the government has provided to municipalities lately, but they believe that there must be a stronger economy and greater leeway because equivalent conditions require different measures. The working party proposed to spend about 3.5 billion. kr more on the municipalities and county councils in 2021, but was therefore voted down on this. The chairman of the committee, Victor Norman, has himself said that the prerequisite for strengthening the districts is that the municipalities have to have room to provide housing, but then the local economy has to give room for it. They clearly point out that there is a need for a strengthened local economy. When does the government intend to listen to its own selection? Or is the wealth tax cut still more important than building District Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e507	I think I've stood on this platform quite many times where representatives from the Workers' Party have warned against listening to samples, but here the representative finds some formulations in a selection position that he agrees with, and that's quite fine. I believe that no matter what the government had proposed in the local economy, the Workers' Party had proposed 3 billion. Extra kroner. I think we have a good municipal economy in Norway. Yes, the municipal politicians have to turn around and turn on every single penny, and I think they have to turn around and turn on several dollars in the future, because the action space in the budgets is going to be smaller in the years to come. The representative can read that out of the perspective message. This means that both the State and the municipality need to be more efficient. We have to make sure that we use the taxpayers' money in a sensible way, that we make sure that we get more of the money we have at our disposal, while also making sure that the municipalities are covered for pensions and demography, and that we have a room to strengthen the services in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e514	Eirik Sivertsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e519	I think the Council of State has quite a lot of wise reflections on the challenges in District Norway. I share many of the perspectives that are there, and I also agree that we have a common challenge, but it's a little bit to say about the reality description and something about the instruments. One of the concerns I have, which I think is far too little in the debate, also about my own part of the country, North Norway, is that most of the national wealth is actually the value of people's future work. It's work we do with hands and heads – and increasingly with our heads and to a lesser extent with our hands. When we describe North Norway as the continent of resources, we talk very often implicitly about minerals, forests, fish, etc., but to a very small extent about the people. It's a challenge when we bottle up the land for what's the most important resource. If we then agree that we also have a challenge in the time perspective – it is right that centralisation has taken place since we invented the city, but it is increasingly, and it is beginning to become critical of North Norway – what forceful grip is the Council of State seeing that we can put in place especially for the areas under pressure, such as the Inland and perhaps especially North Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e528	I was very happy to hear that we agreed on the reality. Let me underline that. We often refer to the oil as the largest value, but it's the workforce that's our greatest value. I think it's four times the value of the entire oil fund and all the oil that's still on the ground, so making sure that we provide the labour force is important for our whole country. I think the most important thing is that we bet at school, that we make sure that we have good kindergartens, that the students complete high school. I know that the municipality of Trysil cooperates with the companies locally to give their young people an apprenticeship. Making sure that your youth completes, gets an apprenticeship, gets a job in the company, there's also a better chance of becoming a student. I believe that investing in competence at all levels is the long-term and good investment for the Inland, for North Norway, yes, for the whole of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e535	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e540	The story of North Norway has been that in Norway, as a nation, it is important that we have growth and development in the important part of our country. The state has located workplaces there, made powerful efforts, built after World War II, it was seen as a social building project, a nation-wide construction project. When we see the powerful numbers we now get, with almost 8,000 people who have moved out of the northern part of the country in two years, I would have thought and expected that the government had some action, some action, but in all the rounds that have been in the questionnaire now, there has been only one grip, and there are private businesses. Private enterprises are very important, we have to invest in them, but it can't be that the state is going to leave important parts of Norway. Then I challenge again: when you see the dramatic numbers you see now, does the government have any grip at all, a single new measure, or are you just going to sit and look and hope that things are going well?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e549	Vedum often boasts that he is good at listening to people. He might be able to listen to what I said. I haven't just talked about private businesses, although I think it's important. I have said that one of the most important things is that we bet on education, that we have good kindergartens, that we ensure that our young people complete high school, that those who choose a professional course – I hope even more do it – also get an apprenticeship in the municipality they live in, that they get a job in the municipality they live in. There is an important and long-term investment in North Norway, but also in other parts of our country. Betting on decentralised education, so you don't have to travel to Tromsø, Bergen or Oslo to study, is important for more people to stay. Providing a good community economy is important for good welfare services. I have myself moved state jobs to North Norway, to Narvik, in the integration field. There we chose Narvik, we moved jobs there. We've moved jobs to Tromsø. There are several other areas in the north that we have moved state jobs to to build up the competences environments in North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e556	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e561	In a previous follow-up question, I realized that we are now one year inside the pandemic in Norway. To the NRK today, Kamilla Thoresen says: «Now I guess I get a payment on Monday. And I see that I'm missing a lot of thousands to pay the bills this month. I just get to start at the top and work my way down, try to eat a little less and turn off the power. I don't know what to do." On January 11th, single mother Helene Holmsen Brenna said to today's business: ‘When people ask me about my future plans, I’m sad.’ She has been on leave since March and does not get the economy to go around, have applied for many jobs, get no job and worry about her future. We know that very many of those who are now unemployed, who have been on leave for a long time or have lost their jobs, are struggling to get it around. It's not enough to live on the money you get from Nav when you go on a daily allowance. SIFO concluded in October that the Korona crisis has posed many increased economic challenges in which it is going to take a long time to correct — perhaps never — and this will mean increasing inequality in the long term. We know that there are people with low wages and low levels of education who have been increasingly outsourced and suspended during the Korona crisis, and that there will be long-term consequences for low pay in Norway. There is clearly a higher risk of loss of work for low-income workers, low education, low-income family background and minority background. So my question to Jan Tore Sanner is, why can't we now agree that we're increasing the daily allowance, that we're increasing so that it becomes 80 pst. up to 4G, which is a simple grip we can take today to secure the economy of the people who are out of work? It has never been intended that you should go on a daily allowance for such a long time. There's not enough money, and we can't accept in Norway that people have to stop eating or turning off the power to make it go around.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e583	I agree with a lot of what Mr Kaski says, because there is no doubt that this crisis is going to come to an end. It strikes differently in terms of industries and industries. We see that 90 pst. of our economy has been relatively good, has actually had an increase in the last year, and then it's 10 pst., some industries, that's hit very hard. It hits those who work there. It is absolutely right that very many of those who have lost their jobs are people with low education and low income. There is also a background for the government to put so high and so heavy on the ability to increase its skills through this crisis, precisely by studying while you are receiving the daily allowance. Then I register that there are too few who do, and there is also something we look at how we can get measures that can help to increase the competence of more people in the crisis. Nor is there any doubt that the most important thing to get people back to work is that we can take down the measures to prevent infection. I have good hope that towards the summer we will be able to see that the economy is once again taking off, that it becomes more active, and that people come back to their jobs. Having said that, I also agree that there is a need for long-term investment. It's not over when we can say that we're now putting the crisis behind us. I think we will have the aftermath of this crisis for years to come, and that is why we need long-term measures to ensure that those who have lost their jobs, those who have fallen out of work, have the opportunity to come back again, not least through retraining and empowerment measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e594	I thank you for the answer, but I still did not get an answer to my specific question about giving increased daily allowances to people who are out of work now. Increased competence does not pay the bills today. That anti-infection measures can be reduced by the summer does not pay the bills today. I honestly don't think it's that easy to get more skills if you don't eat enough, and we have to take that seriously here in the country. We also know that the differences are increasing today because the coronary apnea just hits so crookedly, as Mr. Sanner is about to say. So in the middle of the biggest economic downturn since World War II, we're putting Norway's record in the number of billionaires. The Norwegian cypro resident John Fredriksen, who tops the list, is worth more than all the government's corona crisis packages. It's extremely distorted. At the same time, we see that the number of young people growing up in families with persistent low incomes, poor families with children is increasing. There have been 20,000 more kids living in poor families under Erna Solberg. It's now 111,000, and it's going to be more. What will the government do to re-distribute and correct these economic imbalances?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e603	The most important thing is to make sure that people have a job to do. All the measures taken during this crisis are that we must bring down the infection, that we must stop the pandemic, and that we must compensate both workers and businesses. This crisis has led to a joint agreement on the extension of different schemes and also on more liberal arrangements. I believe that it has been a right priority – that we now ensure that those who lose the job, and those who are on leave, also have a security. We also implement a number of other measures specifically targeted at the families who are struggling the most, through free core time in the kindergarten, lower parental pay in the SFO and increased child benefit by NOK 8 200 since 2019. It means a lot to many families.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e610	There will be follow-up questions – first Eirik Faret Sakariassen.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e615	We have over 200,000 unemployed in Norway. How does the government use the corona pandemic not only to provide financial security, but also to create jobs that make Norway less dependent on oil in the future? And is the balance between the two ratios good enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e620	I think this is a very good question. Of course, dealing with the crisis we are facing is about dealing with the crisis, but what I feel the representative is asking for is that we also need to look forward to it. We have to make sure that we have more legs to stand on, that we have a strong, diverse business life, and that we facilitate both the green shift, for digitisation and for innovation. I have to say that I was happy when I saw the front page of Today's Business today, where the entire front page is «Gründerboom» in Norway. It shows what power is out there among people. Governments have set up better schemes through Innovation Norway, and this has certainly been important. But so many start their own businesses – you can see that it is not certain that one’s own work comes back, and now wants to bet again. I think maybe the measures we have put in place have helped to create something more secure, but I'm very impressed with those who are now using this crisis to create jobs, both for themselves and for others.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e627	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e632	My question goes to the State Council for Higher Education and Research. I heard State Council Sanner say that decentralised education is government policy. Yes – the government party Right forgot at least decentralised education in the first draft of a new party programme, even though the State Council for Higher Education and the Minister for District Affairs themselves managed the programme work. It says, I mean, a part about the government party's focus that this wasn't even on the block when they strung out the course for the next two years. However, two successive government-appointed samples of just decentralised education were then raised as a major measure for stronger regions and for increasing differences between cities and countries, and in January the government announced the development of a strategy for decentralised and flexible education. However, this strategy does not appear to be being addressed by the Stortinge. Yesterday I found out that the Right launched its second draft of the program. Now there is something about decentralised education, and in a brand new bullet point under the heading ‘Higher Education’, the party promises to follow up the strategy for flexible and decentralised education. This, however, seems to be intrusive in the face of the massive challenges that are now facing us. Recently, Karl Eirik Schjødt-Pedersen described the changes in District Norway as dramatic, which Norway has faced since the war. The head of the demographic committee, Victor Norman, was surprised at how bad things were happening, and thought Norway was at the back of the handling. What Norway needs is not a collection of examples, but a new policy for education where people live. Why does the government not have a more committed follow-up to this major societal challenge than a strategy that they will not even be sure to present to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e645	I am pleased that the representative had discovered that it was part of the second draft of the programme – it is clear. Firstly, it is absolutely right that we are now working on a strategy for decentralised and flexible education. It's important to mention both of these words, because flexible education is equally topical for her who lives a stone's throw from campus. Decentralized education is important for those living in the districts. Being able to train throughout life, including in the workplace, is important for many people in different parts of the country. So it's not that when we start with this strategy, we haven't done any of the world's things in this area already. Large funds have been allocated through Diku, for example, to newly decentralised and flexible educations around the country. If we look at how the university and higher education sectors, and not least the technical school sector, have managed the coronary apathy, they've quickly thrown themselves around and got more of that. Once we've worked on this strategy, which we're doing now, I've conducted hearings. The nice thing about the time we live in now is that you can travel all over Norway from your office, and I've now had consultations with all the regions of the country, with private business, with the public sector, with the institutions and with students: what are we actually going to do to make this easier? We're going to develop this strategy towards the summer, but let me still identify something. For example, I met. a student who is a midwife, who lives in Harstad but now completes her kindergarten education in Tromsø while she works in kindergarten. It is possible because there is a digitised offer that is some sort of collection-based. We should have that idea too much more education. It also means that we challenge universities, colleges and our colleges to develop more offers that are relevant to people who are at work. Secondly, not digitized or decentralised education is the same as taking a lecture and putting it on Zoom. That's another way to run pedagogics. That means that we should both have some places where it is possible to gather the premises we already have, but perhaps also create new ones, and get up-to-date offers that provide full education, but more digitized.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e660	I thank the Council of State for the answer. We were talking about earlier today that in the last two years, North Norway has lost 4,000 inhabitants. Political governance is needed to reverse that trend. The government-appointed sample(s) must be followed up. The Council of State mentions digitised education and the opportunities it provides, but the district industry committee was involved in and underlined the importance of education for residence preference, and recommended a more decentralised study structure. They say that incentives are needed in order for schools to establish more services tailored to local needs, and suggest that funding should stimulate them. Soon, the Stortinget will deal with the governance message, and I look forward to a wide-ranging debate on the government's proposals there. The Labour Party fought for the funding system for universities and colleges to be reviewed as part of this communication. Then I wonder: What are the concrete and new governance tools that the government will use to promote a more decentralised education?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e671	Now that message is coming soon, and I also look forward to that discussion. I can also say that I am applying for quite a large majority in this message, and I hope we can get a good and constructive cooperation across the block line to find measures and ways to manage the university and higher education sector in the long term. We already have some governance mechanisms. Some of the things that have been brought forward by the sector – but also by us, to the extent that they are successful – are the development agreements. We see that the way we've run universities and colleges now, it's been a little bit of a way of governing, but very different institutions. We need to develop them in a way that allows us to adapt governance and development agreements to not only the institutions' character and what they are good at – that is one thing – but also the region in which they are located, and what needs to be in the future. It's going to be one of the important tools we're going to point to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e679	There will be follow-up questions – first Cecilie Myrseth.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e684	It's been talking about North Norway today, and the numbers we've got about the population are dramatic. North Norway needs so much more than words and situational descriptions. I think most people are pretty tired of that. Here, concrete measures and policies must be implemented, but, unfortunately, initiatives do not exist. Not least, we have seen this in the government's Northern Region Communication. Decentralized education is very important. That is why the Labour Party wants a big boost on that very point. The way you take education changes. You take shorter education, and you like to do it away from the usual campuses. You want to do what you live with your family. The University of Tromsø plays an invaluable role for North Norway, Norway, and it has been one of the most important measures to provide the necessary labour force in the region. But the challenge is that providing decentralised education is more expensive. How is the government to ensure that a university such as Tromsø – and others – obtains the economy needed to provide decentralised education?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e693	I very much agree with the description from the representative of the University of Tromsø, as a very important part of the education offer in North Norway. I also want to mention North University, which has many campuses around. It is important to remember that Norway has almost 60 campuses only at universities and colleges, and also a very decentralised vocational school offer. The sample sizes referred to indicate that education is very important, and that it should be decentralised, but also that it must have a labour market that makes it possible not only to get one job in the family but also to have two. They show that it is very important to build the country together with transportation projects. There are many things that are needed to maintain a decentralised settlement in Norway. I believe, on the one hand, that providing decentralised education costs, obviously, and that is why we need to look at it in the funding system. But I also believe that, as far as the large free frameworks of universities and colleges are concerned, we should look at the possibilities of offering and making available the education that has already been developed for other students, to those who want to take it decentralised or flexible.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e702	Marit Knutsdatter Strand – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e707	Should the right to education and lifelong learning be real, people have to be able to take education near where they live throughout the country. The Demographics Committee and the District Research Committee point to the need for more decentralisation of higher education. The centre party has long called for a real decentralisation. Instead, we experience a government that abdicates and approves the closure of study sites with long traditions, such as Nesna and Sandness Lake. Instead, the government is driving a rail decentralisation by redefining decentralised education into remote distribution. Nord universitet, USN, UiT and the Inland Higher Education School had totaled 1,700 fewer students on flexible offers in 2019 compared to 2015. The question is, what does the government really add to the concept of decentralised education? And will a strategy decide that only the large central education institutions will distribute higher education at the expense of a geographical distribution of educational institutions and local study centres?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e714	What we're doing in decentralised education is that people living all over the country can either fill their skills or take a basic education where they live. Once again, it means that, of course, on the one hand, you have to maintain a decentralised structure of teaching places. As I answered a previous question, we have almost 60 physical campers around the country, and we have study centers. But I think we have to think bigger than that. We have a lot of public facilities around us that can also be used for this type of assembly-based education, which either the municipalities, the counties or the state are over. There's a lot of ways to think about it. The second thing is that the feedback I get from the students I've been talking to when we've had these hearings is that they are asking for the flexibility that allows them to combine education with having a job and other obligations, for example. children to be picked up in kindergarten, etc., and that you might also want to spend some longer time taking this education than you would normally like to do. That's what we have to fix. That is why we have quite a large framework in the sector that should be used better. We have to make sure that we have rooms, and then we have to make sure that those who want to take education get it available where they live.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e721	Nils Kristen Sandtrøen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e726	As in many other areas of policy, it is time to go from talk to practice, so there is a big gap between what the Council of State is trying to put forward as it is and the lack of effort in practical policy. There are two things that need to be put in place if we're to get education decentralised. One is funding. The second is the study offer. As far as funding is concerned, it is always the municipalities and county councils that have to operate with small amounts here and there to ensure the offer that the right-wing government also claims to improve. Therefore, basic funding needs to be put in place. Then there is the offer of education. When the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Advance Party joined forces on better adaptation of education in Norway to the needs of the workforce and industry, Right-wing anger became apparent, and it also became, for example, some professors at Blinderna. Isn't it time to get funding and education services decentralised?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e733	I didn't get so angry, but I disagreed with that decision. It was simply because the parameter you then proposed was to say that what job you got when you were fully educated was to decide which funding the educational institution would get. So they were to receive funding for something they don't have as much money as they do for quality in education. So it's like we've already done a lot. We have set up these sectoral programmes to enable the industries themselves to develop training offers, the parties among themselves, which are relevant to those organised in them. We have spent a great deal of time offering decentralised and flexible education, but it has been done as a means of competition. So that means that institutions are competing between themselves to make the best offer, and it's got a lot of very exciting offers. When I've been to consultations around the country, I've talked to students who take advantage of these offers, and there are many who do. Now we have to think bigger than that. We have to think: how can we now use technology, but also what we know about pedagogics for this – which is not a Norwegian phenomenon, it is a European phenomenon that this happens – to ensure that more people can take education where they live?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e740	Nils Kristen Sandtrøen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e745	If the Right did not get angry, there were at least a lot of exciting posts that the Workers' Party saw in the country's newspapers after we had made that improvement. We're very happy about that, and we expect it to follow up. As far as competition is concerned, the economy of providing education is very weak. I guess this really reminds me of the economy of e.g. orientated sports. You get very little left to operate to deliver offers decentralised, which is why there are too few offers. That's when we demand that there be a responsibility for the educational institutions, both universities and colleges, to deliver it. It can't be on a voluntary basis, and someone has an interest in doing it sometimes. It has to be put into system. That's what I, and I think more speakers with me in this pulpit, have missed from the Council of State now. These are many fine words, but no concrete direction in terms of political change. Is there a political change?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e753	Yeah, it comes in a strategy that we're doing right now, and that's going to point the way forward. But in that strategy, we also need to collect and get an overview of all that has been done. I think we have to look at it in a larger whole, and then think about how we're going to do it. So it is absolutely right that parts of the funding system, such as: rewarding institutions for the production of credits can be confusing from what is shorter education. I fully agree with that. We have to look at this, and that is why we come across both a governance message and a broader review of the entire funding system. The second thing is, in addition to that, we don't have to say that just because someone is going to do something that adapts to the direction that the world is going in, they need to pay more for it. It also has to be that a public part of our society, i.e. colleges and universities, gets 40 billion. kr – large amounts – in free income, must adapt the offers they make to the needs of the population, who paid taxes for the money they have received. I believe that the limits they already have must be better applied to what you need for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e762	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e767	In the space of Christmas we could read in today's business that the PST believes the education sector is completely blue-eyed and very, very naive. On 4 February in the VG we read the same message that PST thought they were still naive in their attitudes and actions against foreign intelligence. In PST's annual threat assessments, they consider intelligence activities and spying from countries such as China and Russia to be one of our greatest threats, and they also point to the academy. Governments themselves have adopted a major communication on student mobility, where the government has committed to increased cooperation with China and Russia, Norway does not have a security policy cooperation with. The Progress Party believes that we need to pay more attention to this issue. Therefore, we initiated a meeting between the Committee and the PST and proposed that closer and more formalised cooperation be established between the Academy and the PST in the future. I am surprised that only the Progress Party voted in favour of this. I am surprised that the Progress Party was all alone in commenting, and that no other party mentioned this concern in the Stortinget. I was all the more surprised that the representative of Harek Rivers from the government party on the right only four hours after he had used his index finger to push the voting button and give his support to increased knowledge and research cooperation with China and Russia, was out in the VG and used his index finger to warn against just increasing knowledge and research cooperation with Russia and China. This made me confused and uncertain as to what use the index finger of the representative of the Rivers it is best to describe what is the government's policy. Therefore, I have to ask for clarification: Is it to increase knowledge and research cooperation with, among other things. Russia and China, which are government policies, or is it not?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e780	That's it. That's why we also have a big message that's been adopted by the Storting, which says it's also an important part of it. I think we're going to be able to have two thoughts in our head at once in this discussion. On the one hand, it is very important for Norway also to have increased cooperation both on the research side and on the education side with several other countries. Not least European countries, such as Germany and France, we want more exchanges, countries that are not English-speaking, but are important economies with which we want to cooperate, and also countries such as Russia and China. I fully agree with the representative and think it is good that he uses both the public vocabulary and the Stortinget to raise the concerns that it may also challenge us on some security issues. That's why we have some mechanisms up there, for example. the fact that we have a round table for China-cooperation that allows institutions with exchanges or research collaborations with China to meet regularly – including with the PST and the safety authorities – for exchange of experience, but also to know how to work better. We are also now working on a renewal of the Panorama Strategy, where we are going to have clear national guidelines for what such academic cooperation actually requires also of security. I fully agree that we should not be naive in these questions. That is why, in the last year, we have also worked with the National Safety Authority to establish an area for the exchange of experience and the dissemination of threat and risk assessment of information exchange. I believe that the reason why the majority of the population did not agree with the Progress Party in that proposal was that we also informed the Committee of all that is being done and of all that we intend to do. But there is a very obvious dilemma, also for a sector such as the higher education and research sector, which is very concerned with transparency and sharing information, that it must not be naïve to those regimes that can abuse such trust. That's why we have mechanisms in place and we're going to work to get more.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e793	I understand the answer that the government will pursue a policy that adds to increased knowledge and research cooperation with Russia and China, and that the playoff from the Rivers does not describe the government's policy. It is regrettable, above all, because I think it is a crazy policy, but it is also alarming that the largest government party speaks with two tongues on security policy issues. The other alarming thing is that the security policy aspect and the goal of enhanced cooperation, set up against the threat assessment by PST, were not sacrificed in a single chapter of the Student Mobility Storing Communication. In fact, it was mentioned as part of a joint sentence on page 90, but not in a single chapter, subchapter or a separate section, the issue was discussed. Does the Council of State consider that the attention and knowledge of security threats are sufficient in the academic community, or is there a need for increased efforts to combat hostile activity in our universities and colleges?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e802	First of all, I can only say that I really feel that the representative Elves is raising the same concern that I am raising with the measures we have and that the representative also promises, namely that we should not be naive or have research cooperation or educational cooperation that makes it possible for us to share information that we should not share. Then the representative specifically asks if I believe that this is good enough as it is today. No, I don't mean that. That is why during my time as Minister of Research and Higher Education, we have established this round table for China cooperation. That's why we in the Panorama Strategy are going to say that we should have common guidelines on what it means academically to cooperate also with countries that have both important information and knowledge we want to share with each other, but also perhaps interests that do not serve Norway. That's why we also have this own apparatus together with the National Safety Authority. We're going to have attention to this. I appreciate that the representative Steffensen is raising it, because that's something we need to keep paying attention to, and we're going to have it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e811	Do I have any more follow-up questions?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e816	No, not really! The oral question procedure is now over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e832	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this section. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative of Mona Fagerås to the Minister for Knowledge and Integration, has been transferred to the Minister for Research and Higher Education who directs him. Question 2, from the representative of Kari Elisabeth Kaski to the Minister for Finance, is postponed to the next Question Time at the request of the Council of State. Question 3, from the representative Petter Eide to the Minister for Justice and Defence, has been withdrawn. Question 10, by Mr Knag Fylkesnes to the Minister for Industry, has been withdrawn. Question 11, from the representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik to the Minister for Industry, has been transferred to the Minister for Fisheries and Food, who is directly responsible. Question 13, from the representative of Audun Lysbakken to the Minister for Industry, has been withdrawn. Question 14, from the representative Lars Haltbrecken to the Minister for Industry, has been transferred to the Minister for Fisheries and Food, who is directing the matter. Question 18, from the representative Sylvi Listhaug to the Minister for Culture and Gender Equality, must be postponed until the next Question Time, as the Council of State is prevented from meeting in Stortinget. Question 19, from the representative Emilie Enger Mehl to the Minister for Climate and Environment, has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e860	This question, from the representative of Mona Fagerås to the Minister for Knowledge and Integration, has been transferred to the Minister for Research and Higher Education, who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e865	‘If we are to have a fair green shift, we need to bet on green professionals. There will be a great need for professionals in, inter alia, the maritime sector and the circular economy in the trade in goods, as well as for vocational training places to provide further training for workers in sectors with high migration needs. There is a need for a strong escalation in green vocational schools. Will the government carry out that escalation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e878	Thank you for the question. Norway is going to need more skilled professionals for the future. With flexible and accessible training, the vocational schools contribute to accessing the necessary skills for the labour market. The government wants more people to take higher vocational education, either in combination with work or on a full-time basis. Since 2018, funding has therefore been allocated to 2,738 new post-secondary schools. This is the biggest effort ever to increase the capacity of our colleges. In the autumn of 2020, there were more than 22,000 post-school students, which is an increase of more than 4,000 compared to the previous year. Vocational education and training shall be professionally oriented and developed in close cooperation with the labour market. The county councils are the closest to assessing the regional and local skills needs and are therefore responsible for the management of our vocational education and training programmes. In 2018, the government introduced a grant scheme for State operating grants to the vocational schools, which gives priority to county municipalities which should receive grants in each county. For example, if the county authorities wish to give priority to: vocational education aimed at green shifts, they can do so. As announced in the Competence Notice Learn Your Life, the government will present a strategy for higher vocational education in the spring of 2021. In the strategy, the government will take stock of the actions undertaken in the field of vocational education as part of a follow-up to the Vocational Education Communication Professionals for the future, which came in 2016. In addition, the strategy shall identify a direction for the further development of the vocational education sector, including: dimensioning and further escalation of capacity in this sector. In addition to capacity-enhancement, in recent years the government has given priority to action to improve the quality of education and to develop new training provision. For example, through an application-based grant scheme for development funds: For the period 2018-2020 allocated approx. Eighteen million. SEK for maritime vocational training courses. Overall, approximately 220 million have been allocated. kr in development funds. The tripartite competence development programme started in 2019 with a sectoral programme for the industrial and construction industries and for the municipal health and care sector. In consultation with the social partners and as part of the skills reform and the Education promise, the government has expanded the scheme to include new industries in 2020 and 2021, inter alia. with an industry programme for the maritime sector. Vocational schools are key suppliers precisely into the sectoral programmes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e893	I thank you for your answer. That is good – we need a strategy for higher vocational education. However, we in SV believe that a much more ambitious step-up plan for vocational schools places must be established than has been set up until now. LO requires 100,000 new post-secondary school places by 2030 – 100,000, President! In the last few years, 2738 new post school places have become a puzzle. Professional schools will play a crucial role in coping with climate change and the green shift. The rectors of the vocational schools state that they can escalate and have already entered into voluntary agreements with local businesses. Does the Minister think that the principals have to put these plans on ice? And why do you write in the government budget that you don't have any information that they can step up and help with the skills of a green shift, when the head of the National Board of Vocational Education spent only a few hours getting answers to this? The trade schools in Norway are ready.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e900	Professional schools in Norway are ready, and they have also received large, new resources and places of study to do the job they are going to do. Let me just start by answering the question in concrete terms: why don't we just match the escalating vocational school council asking for? It's because we also got input from the counties and colleges about what they had of capacity. What we saw was that the capacity they had, what they had the ability to offer on such short notice, was not equivalent to what Stortinget thought would be offered. I'm very skeptical about offering places that are not needed, for which there is no capacity, and where we don't know if the quality will be good enough. It is also important to remember one more thing, and that is that one university place is not one student. We have also amended the legislation so that we can now offer up to 5 points of study. That means that a lot of students go into what's really a 60-point year. So once again, I think this is a way of getting many more thousands of people than the number of places they've been given to be able to get different relevant education services.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e909	We are now at a time of high unemployment, and I think it is urgent to put in place new vocational schools. The green shift in Norway demands the greatest change in skills of the time. The competence of the future must be about innovation, technology development, necessary innovation, how we support industries that are needed for the zero-emission society, and not least how we use the expertise we currently have in the oil industry to create new jobs through a large-scale investment in green industry and new green industries. Research will help to resolve the climate crisis and create a fair green shift and will provide the basis for these new industries. Research is crucial for the transformation of the Norwegian economy, and there must be a green shift in research as well. More needs to be invested in research. Then it is with great concern that I record that the research funds for this government are being reduced year by year. What does the Minister think about the decline in funding for research? Is this not bad with the climate goals?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e918	It would have done it if it was true, but it's in no way correct. It is such that the research budgets under this government have increased by 50 pst. since SV left the government. It's been one of the big budget wins every year. What I think the representative is mixing are the ABE cuts on one side and the applications for appropriations on the other. But applications for funding have been much larger every year than the ABE cuts, so that there is more money for research now – much more money for research now – than it did at the time. The reason for this is precisely because we are going through a transition that involves both green shifting and digital tools that make everyday life change for many of us, and we are going to take Norway forward in such a way that we also establish new jobs that are not only dependent on oil and gas. I'm very proud of the effort we've had in research. We are now working on a new long-term research plan that will apply from 2023, and it will take Norway further.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e936	This issue has been postponed to the next Question Time, at the request of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e950	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e958	«In the municipality of Bremen in the Western counties, care for the elderly is on the agenda. On 1 March, the inhabitants had a corona-adapted marking against the municipality, which, in the view of deira, weakens the supply of a care centre in Davik, the municipality. For the Progress Party, care for the elderly is important and we are critical to the importance of local authorities delivering kittens for our elderly. What do the Councils of State think about what happens to the elderly in the municipality of Bremen?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e965	The government, like the representative Njåstad, is concerned that everyone who needs it should get good and sound health and care services, and I have a great understanding that residents and relatives are engaged in this kind of business. I think this case shows very clearly how important it is that there is closeness between the population and those who decide when it comes to care for the elderly, so that people can show disagreement and resistance, and those who are responsible for the decisions are close and will thus get this feedback very clearly. This shows some of the value of the old age care being the responsibility of the municipality and not the responsibility of the state. Municipalities are responsible for providing necessary and sound services to their inhabitants. Therefore, it is natural for the municipalities to assess the design and arrangement of the services. This is a matter that falls under the responsibility of the municipalities of Bremen and must be resolved locally. I assume that the municipality has assessed the different solutions, but also assesses the feedback they receive from their population, which they face as local politicians. Then, as a supervisory authority, the national administrator may assess whether the municipality fulfils its statutory obligations. The government’s objective is to ensure a more equivalent provision of health and care services irrespective of diagnosis, residence or life situation. We want a professionally strong municipal health and care service with competent employees and therefore contribute in many ways to improve the ability of municipalities to provide a good offer. Among other things, we have contributed through a good local economy, through legislative changes and key messages that prioritise quality and capacity, but not least the competence of these services. We have implemented a quality reform for the elderly, living our whole lives, where we are just going to help improve the quality throughout the municipalities, using what works well in some municipalities, so that other municipalities can learn from it and introduce it into their own municipalities. The goal is that older people can master life longer and have a safe and active old age. Not least, it is important to focus on where we often see that it is a failure: activity and community, food and meals, health care and having a good relationship in services. Throughout our lives, we have invited the municipalities to take a concrete position on the measures taken in the reform and have arranged for the municipalities to change in line with the reform priorities. We have an economic carrot in the reform that means that the municipalities will have to have their own life-plans for, among other things. to be able to participate in the comprehensive earmarked grant schemes in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e982	Thanks for the answer. It was reasonably expected that a pointer to the municipality would be local self-government. The challenge in this municipality is that he is run by the red-green politicians, who want to cut the supply of food for the elderly as well as at night shifts to save the poor 400,000 kroner. It's a relatively small amount for such a rich municipality as Bremander, so I'm very much in agreement with the council's local politician who wants to raise the matter back locally, but I also hope that the commitment and pressure from Stortinget and from the Minister will help to emphasize that one should not use the elderly as a balancing post in a municipality for small money and create the insecurity that one now provides. I react a little to the practice that has been said; that if one triggers a lot of night shifts, then there is not a proper offer to be there, then one must enter the hospital. So a person creates a fear in the population that he often prints on the alarm, so a measure can be moved into the community center of the hospital. I hope that the Council of State agrees with me that this is not a way of dealing with its citizens – and creating that insecurity.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e987	I fully agree with the representative in that, and it is a goal that people who need assistance from the municipality, whether it is because of the common weaknesses of old age or other health challenges or disabilities, should be able to master as much of their own lives as possible and thus be able to live at home as long as you feel and experience it as safely. From a municipality's point of view, and not only in terms of the quality of life of its own inhabitants, but also in terms of pure economics, we know very well that facilitating people's living at home is also what pays off for the municipality. Although this means having extensive domestic services and assistance, the option is often much more expensive, and when people do not want it, it is also a worse option.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e992	I totally agree with the council that it is a good idea for people to stay at home, and that if they don't live at home, they live in organized care homes for as long as possible. It is good for the quality of life of the individual. I am very pleased that the Council of State was in the reform of Life throughout our lives, for which our parties have cooperated well. The party of progress has long been concerned that the smell of food should come back to the elderly, in hospitals, in nursing homes. In addition to removing a night watch, a meal should now be run from the municipality centre in small plastic bags to be warmed up. This is contrary to our wishes and this big crowd has had when it comes to means of delivery, so I wonder if the Council of State still has the same level of ambition as he had when the Progress Party was in government, that one should give way to the kitchen, and that one should have a meal smell back at the center and hospitals where older people behave.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e997	We have the same ambitions to get the smell of food back, and that those who live at home or in nursing homes, who are actually also defined as home, get good food and have access to good food and good meals. It's some of the things that are very central to the reform. We have now stated that all municipalities throughout the country will adopt their own Life-Reforms during the course of 2021. If they don't, they could risk having a number of applications for government funds, which are important for many municipalities to get, so there's a carrot/pice behind it. I believe that this reform is important because it will contribute to the need for local governments and local politicians to take an overall approach to what is very important in human life, what is about food, which is about participation, which is about quality of life.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1005	«End report « Event analysis. Internally infected covid-19’ for the Hospital Telemark has been published, a report that is devastating in terms of hospital routines. The communication between the hospital and the municipalities, and not least the communication with its relatives, is slaughtered. The routines, or lack of them, and the handling led to 25 employees and 17 patients being infected, and 5 of the patients died. This must have consequences, so that it does not happen again. What does the Council of State think must be done to ensure that the hospital still has confidence in the population?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1012	The background to the representative’s question is an outbreak of infection in a medical department at the Hospital Telemark in December 2020. This outbreak also had ringing effects for a surgical unit at the hospital. I have been informed that the Hospital Telemark put down a separate team that carried out a thorough incident analysis of the incident. The aim was to shed light on the course of events and to provide knowledge on why the outbreak had such significant consequences. The hospital has informed that the team has interviewed affected patients, relatives, municipalities, employees and managers of the departments that had outbreaks of infection. The team would also propose appropriate measures to prevent similar events from happening again. The municipalities in the hospital's exposure area are in some areas involved in the measures in question, and one will continue to do so. What has been revealed is serious and regrettable matters. At the same time, it is worth noting that the Hospital Telemark itself took the initiative in the incident analysis. The health undertaking has chosen to be open about the outbreak and has also published the full incident analysis. They have implemented improvement measures and the deaths have been notified to the State Health Authority. One of the measures is that the hospital has strengthened communication with the relevant municipalities after the outbreak. In addition to screening patients on arrival, telephone questionnaire screening has also been introduced prior to insertion to detect infection risk, mass testing in the event of defined outbreaks and testing of patients prior to discharge to municipal institutions. The health undertaking carries out risk assessments for the use of multi-bed rooms and common areas in case of increased infection. Based on the incident analysis, the hospital will create a separate group of outbreaks to coincide in the event of a new possible outbreak of infection. The team shall be composed of staff with a clear responsibility for the detection, testing, warning and communication of infection, and managers from the units concerned. While the health business indicates that much of this is already in place today, a separate group of outbreaks will be able to ensure that these activities are better coordinated. The pandemic we're up in, it poses many challenges. The current hospital and management have a job to do to ensure that the population has confidence in their important work and the offer they provide to the population. At the same time, the openness they have shown around the outbreak of infection is an important contribution to both learning and improvement and to regain confidence from the population. I assume that the hospital will continue to follow up on what has been revealed. Health South-East will follow up the work of the Hospital Telemark with infection management and improvement of routines.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1025	Yeah, it's a very good health analysis that's easy to understand for ordinary people. I think many were startled when they saw how crushing it is in terms of the routines of treating coronary infection at the hospital: fear of isolation, many felt forgotten, and relatives and everyone in the municipality are critical of communication and information about their loved ones who are in coronary infection at the hospital, considering their serious underlying illness and the risk of infection as well. That's really serious. Many were also critical that oral bandages were used to a small extent even though the infection in Grenland was very increasing, so there were oral bandages in the malls, but not in the hospital. I hear what the Council of State says, but what does the Council of State really have to do to ensure that the citizens regain confidence and feel safe at the hospital Telemark? For now there are many who cancel hours in fear of being infected.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1032	The first thing I think is essential, is that one acknowledges the errors that have occurred, and is open about them. It's the most important and the first step to restore trust. The second is to show that one takes the results of the report seriously and changes its routines in line with what appears in the report – telling it and making sure that it has actually happened. I believe that is the most important start to this work. The third step is that the population sees that this has the effect, that similar episodes do not happen again, and that one sees that there has been an improvement. I'm pretty sure that if all three things happen, the population will recover the same trust they had in their hospital before this happened.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1043	There is no doubt that many people are making a great effort in the health care system, and that is definitely so at the Hospital Telemark, too, but I believe that this shows that there have been challenges with the routines, and that there has been a challenge for management. The elephant in space is a little bit if the Council of State thinks there must be some consequences for some, and that one has to set an example that infectious diseases are actually at the top of the agenda – not productivity requirements. I would like to challenge the Council of State: After hearing what I have heard, a long time ago, several weeks ago, the Governor of the State was actually going to consider whether to start an investigation of the Hospital Telemark. Still things indicate that no investigation has been started, and five people have lost their lives. Does the Council of State think it's okay not to start an investigation? There is an internal report that breaks the routines and the system, but the government administrator or the Health Authority has done nothing further to follow this up. I believe many relatives and others expect to see that it is actually taken seriously and followed up also by the state administrator.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1050	As to the possible consequences for persons working at the Hospital Telemark, it is primarily the responsibility of the management and the board to assess it. I have probably the basic idea that we can all make a mistake; the most important thing is that one then admits the mistake, learns from the error and does not make the same mistake again. As a general rule, it is not always the best response that those who have made a mistake have to go, but that they actually take the experience further, just to prevent the same error from happening again. As far as the governor is concerned, it is very important to me that state administrators assess matters and the ways in which they supervise and control them, without any political interference. Because if we start to get involved politically in their working methods and priorities, trust in the job they do can quickly be weakened. These matters have been reported, and I expect the state administrator to make a concrete assessment, but of course the state administrator will also look into the internal report that has come.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1060	‘The government has promised a major effort to develop broadband in the districts. 300,000 households lack high-speed broadband. What is the time schedule for the government to provide these 300,000 households with high-speed broadband?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1067	I would like to thank Mr Navarsete for his question. I am pleased that the representative asks this very question, because I am very proud of what Norway has done in terms of broadband and mobile coverage. Broadband, mobile services and the Internet are essential in our daily lives, both for value creation, for jobs and for good public services. It's important to be aware that almost 100 pst. of the households in Norway now offer basic broadband. This means that we can use public portals, shop online, use online banking, read online newspapers and send e-mails. It's important. The question from the representative of Navarsete concerns high-speed broadband. In this area, we have had a very positive development in recent years. In fact, we have to go back in time when the representative Navarsete himself was in government and was Minister of Transport until 2009 and was responsible for this important sector, in order to understand the formidable advances we have had on the digital core wall in recent years. When the government took over in 2013, it was only 63 pst. by Norwegian households offering high-speed broadband. By the first half of 2020, the coverage has increased to 89 pst. of households, and by the end of 2020 we probably passed 90 pst. It's a formidable increase. But then, as the representative points out, there are still about 250,000 households lacking high-speed broadband offers. A large part of the households are in scattered strata. The market itself has developed the network in large parts of the country under normal commercial conditions. The market-based model that has been established for more than 20 years, we see good results, but in areas where there is no commercial basis, both the state and the municipalities contribute grants. This government has allocated more to broadband development in the districts, but we do not stop there. Not many weeks ago, we launched a historic district package for the development of high-speed wireless broadband in the districts. In this package, the winners of the 5G auction conducted over the summer will be able to have a reduced price for commitment to expanding into scattered areas. The development of these funds shall be carried out by the end of 2024. I am now working on a big message that I will present before the summer, about broadband, mobile and the Internet. There, we will set new ambitious targets for the years to come and present the measures to achieve those objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1082	I thank you for your answer. The more people who get high-speed broadband, the worse it gets, the less so. The representative Lundteg takes up a chronicle in today's VG, linked to Nav. There are expectations that everyone has the possibility that one can connect, but not today that everyone has that possibility. This is very important, and it's been said by the Center Party since Odd Roger Enoksen was a party leader and VG had a bubble where it said «Broadband to the people». Then there were very few people other than the Center Party who believed in it. How many of these 300,000 households that currently have three-band and not broadband will get it by the end of 2024, when this large-scale extension is made?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1091	The aim of the government is that the whole country should have access to high-speed broadband. That is why I am now very pleased with this auction. I hope that there will be more than one offerer in the auction who is committed to expanding broadband across the country. I look forward to presenting the objective and measures for how to achieve this, so that everyone has the opportunity to use high-speed broadband. The basic network that almost all of Norway has access to today is good, but as the representative is involved, we should also be involved in preventing digital exclusion, so that everyone has good access to public services. It is a goal for the government that we get high-speed bands and networks all over Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1098	Then I hear the answer from the Council of State so that all of the 300,000 households have extended high-speed broadband before the end of 2024. That's a very good ambition and a very good goal, and I really hope one gets it. It'll show you when a do, but at least that's how I get the answer. This is not a normal suggestion. One submits some of the things that should have been paid for the concession, and then I wonder: Have you sent out the auction rules now? And do they contain the 2024 deadline for expansion – I assume that one does? How will the expenditure which this in any case is for the State be reflected in the budgets submitted to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1105	I would like to make it clear that the auction will be open, and the expansion, with the funds at the disposal of those who bid in the auction, will take place by 2024. As I also said to the representative, the government will deliver a big message on the goal during the spring. Someone, the National Communications Authority, has sent out detailed rules for the auction at the hearing, and they will provide details as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1115	‘In the Official Journal of Bergen on 22 February of this year we could read that two weeks ago it became known that Russian-controlled TMH International will purchase Bergen Engines during the year. This means that the Maritime Defence will be dependent on a Russian controlled company in the operation and maintenance of a number of vessels, including coastguard vessels. How will the Council of State ensure that the defence needs are met and prevent the transfer of Norwegian technology used in defence vessels to the Russian company?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1122	In the light of the debate that has taken place, let me first make it clear that it is not appropriate for a Russian-controlled company to maintain the defence vessel, and also state that the safety of the defence vessel is ensured. However, this is a complex matter, which raises a wide range of questions that need to be examined from all sides. It'll necessarily take some time. Since I became familiar with the matter, I have asked the defense for several rounds and the defence equipment made different assessments of, among other things. how the sale will affect those contracts and future deliveries where Bergen Engines is now subcontracted. There are assessments I do not want to make here, but it is already clear that the defence has control also in the contract set, so that the security of the defence technology is ensured. The diesel engines of Bergen Engines cannot be defined as sensitive defence technology, but we also consider the security policy importance of enabling Russian companies to access this technology, and the need to prevent technology transfer is one of several issues that is now being assessed. The potential sale could also affect other national security interests and relations with other countries. It is therefore necessary to assess trade policy, defence policy and security policy. Therefore, the government has informed the parties that it may be appropriate to stop the sale on the basis of Section 2-5 of the Security Act. This provision may be applied if the sale may involve a non-negligible risk that national security interests may be threatened and even if Bergen Engines has not been subject to the Security Act. The government is now working to identify all possible conditions that are relevant to the possible sale of Bergen Engines. Decisions taken in this matter may be of major importance in principle and may have long-term consequences. We must therefore ensure that we stand firm in both the acquisition of knowledge, the assessment and the decision we are making.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1137	I understand that the minister will continue to assess. He has now evaluated for four months, and it should not be so difficult to conclude. Maybe I'll say congratulations on stopping the sale, because I've realized that it's going to happen, but when the minister says that this is not sensitive technology, it's simply not knowledgeable. I'm sorry, President. But stationary engines and Russian technology, where Russia is struggling to get the type of engines that Norway can deliver – it is clear that it is sensitive and that it is security-related risk sport. The minister says that there are diesel engines, and so has he said before. But it's not just that diesel engines are sold to Russia, this is technology that the Russians need. Of course, the government should have known that a long time ago. Advanced engine and turbine technology is transferred to Russia. Only by itself should the warning lights flash long ago. Then it's messy back and forth about ministers. The last time we asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, she pointed to the Minister for Defence. The Minister of Defence pointed to the Minister of Industry. The Prime Minister is completely absent. Where's the government security committee? It's a completely meaningless way of dealing with this. Will the Minister of Defense take self-criticism here?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1148	We may take self-criticism in the way we have explained the matter. When we register the representative Tybring-Gyed confusion, there are things that indicate that we have been unclear. I want to repeat some of the complication factors in this case. In fact, commercial policy needs to be taken into account when entering into a case like this; it's important that you also see it from that point of view when you think about how to communicate. It is important for the government that, for commercial policy reasons, we appear to be a nation that takes Russia and Russian owners seriously. We have checked that for the defence part, for the maintenance of our ship and for the deliveries, we have it under control in the contract agency we have. Then I fully agree with the representative that the security policy aspects of technology transfer and knowledge and competence transfer are the reasons why we have now notified that it may be relevant to stop the sale and that we are now doing a thorough assessment of this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1159	The sale of Bergen Engines was known in November. It was first written on November 2. It's been five months. However, the government has not concluded that this sale should be stopped, although I now understand that it will be stopped. In advance of buying such a large company, there is something called ‘due diligence’. It does all the big businesses when they buy up another big business. Then you go into not only accounts and finances, but also technology skills, technology skills, who are customers, how customers operate, and whether customers can pay. Everything in a larger enterprise is going through a ‘due diligence’. That happens at the time of the conclusion of the contract, which was February 2. Can the Minister of Defence guarantee that TMH International has not acquired any technology, competence or knowledge that is sensitive to Norway, to the Coast Guard and, in general, to the Norwegian defence? Can he guarantee it, or is that what he's going to evaluate now, for the next four months?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1168	This is a slightly sought-after question, but on a general basis, I can say that ‘due diligence’ occurs between large companies many times, there are many cases of it. It is very rare that I am familiar with and would also be very little tricked if the first thing you deliver in a due diligence process is the business secrets that give the company the value it has for sale. Although the process has started, it has been notified that it should be stopped and that we should make these assessments. It is within the time aspect also in this case. But it's quite possible to blow it up and yell that this is dangerous, dangerous. I believe we have control of it, and then we will see what comes when we have made the assessments that will be made in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1178	Many have happened since the question was sent, and where it says ‘put it down’, it shall read ‘sold out’: ‘Recently the NRK reported that Norsk Hydro assesses the closure of the aluminium factories in Holmestrand and Karmøy, which have 650 employees. These are important corner stone companies in their societies, but as important jobs for a Norway that is facing a green shift. The State, at the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries, owns about 34 p.m. by Norwegian Hydro ASA. Will the Council of State use its power of ownership through the Ministry to preserve these jobs rather than to accept that they be laid down, in order to ensure a fair green shift?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1187	I have also registered that Hydro has concluded to sell the business area for rolling, and that the representative is involved is not closure, but it is sales. The factories have been sold to another company. I have noticed that the buyer expresses the willingness to use his resources on a change of business and to invest in and develop the businesses. I am also concerned that the new owner will take care of the Norwegian rolling mills and the workplaces. The government has provided a good framework for industry. The decision on the sale of the rolling business is taken by the Hydro Board of Directors. Company law specifies the division of responsibilities and roles between the owner, the company’s board of directors and the managing director. The board of directors is responsible for managing the company and the sale of subsidiaries is the responsibility of the board of directors. This division of roles also follows the country’s principles of sound ownership management. There are principles that have been a broad political consensus for a long time and that have served both the companies and the state as owners. Stepping away from it could weaken the entire state ownership and give it the extensive ownership that the state has in Norwegian business life, it could have significant negative consequences for the Norwegian capital market. For the last five years, the rolling business has had an annual underlying return on capital employed of approximately EUR 10 million. 2 pst. – significant below the long-term cost of capital of 7-8 pst. Return over time below the cost of capital generally weakens the basis for investment, growth, competitiveness and safe jobs. I think it is positive that another actor wants to invest in Norwegian jobs. It also shows that the rolling mills in Holmestrand and on Karmøy, and the employees there, are worth betting on, and that the framework conditions in Norwegian business are also attractive to companies outside the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1202	SV recently launched its green new deal for a fair green shift in Norway. There is a range of tools to ensure that we have good and safe jobs in the future. We are concerned that the state is not well placed to exercise active ownership, and this is a good example of that – that a Norwegian company, in which the state has a relatively large ownership, does not intervene. One says that everything is governed its responsibility. The council thinks it's not the department or government that's going to administer this, but the board is responsible. The Governing Board has also been given representatives to whom the government has been responsible. On the basis of that question, is it that the government will not intervene when key Norwegian values, such as Hydro in this example, are at risk of being sold out?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1211	There is an agreement on the sale of these rolling mills, and I cannot reverse a legally concluded agreement between two private parties. I am quite sure that I and the representative have a different principle view of state ownership as such. I am concerned that the state has to appear as a long-term, professional actor who makes logical decisions in a market, precisely because with such a large player in the Norwegian business community, uncertainty about the role of the state that owns actually makes it more difficult to own with other private individuals. It may make it more difficult to attract private capital, and it could have consequences for many of the jobs that the State holds today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1216	And I'm sure we'll also look at what makes sense in this context. For my part, it makes sense that the state should be an active owner and ensure that there are good jobs that can contribute to a green shift and stability – not just a market principle. The result now is that the uncertainty both in Holmestrand and in Karmøy – as we know well from our home country – is great. A lot of people are worried. They're not sure what the future will bring. Would these jobs be there in the future as well? And not least, what kind of job would it be? In view of that, I think the most important question for all those who are currently insecure is whether the Council of State will work to ensure that those who are new owners retain the pay, employment and pension conditions they have worked on for many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1223	The state is an active owner, and we carry out our ownership in line with the principles of which there has been broad political agreement. But even though we have a very good ownership department, the state, at the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries, cannot go in, have the same knowledge and be able to make the same decisions in a company that the board can. The different assessments, the different decisions, must be taken by the board of directors of a company, because the State cannot or should not assume such tasks. It's true that we have a representative on the electoral committee who like that sits on a board, and we also vote at the general meeting, but it's not like the government has its representative. The Board of Directors is responsible for the entire shareholder community, and we are one of several shareholders in this company, together with others. I'm occupied with the jobs that are there, and I have a lot of understanding that they feel insecure, but it's also a company that's interested in this business, that's bought them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1235	‘Historically, the country has been crucial for industrialisation, employment and well-being. If we're going to be able to get the fair green shift, we can and must use state companies. It should all know after the adventure Statoil, now Equinor. A proposal is to build the state pharmaceutical industry, StatMed. It will make Norway less dependent on imports of vaccines and medicines. Will the Council of State build up a major pharmaceutical industry in Norway, which is not only about health but also about future green jobs?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1242	The government has a well-balanced industrial and industrial policy that contributes to sustainable growth, to profitable jobs and to green transition. It is the business community that has the best knowledge and ability to conduct profitable and competitive activities. What we can do is to facilitate competitive Norwegian companies and industries to seize opportunities where they themselves are willing to bet and see the opportunities. The government has therefore prioritised an overall industrial policy that promotes value creation and a profitable and competitive business. We have focused on business-promoting tax relief, research and innovation, digitisation, export promotion and market access. The representative Wilkinson presents state ownership and state companies as a central tool for sustainable industrial policy. The government's ownership policy is reflected in the ownership message. It is government policy that the State should have holdings in companies only when it is the best solution to meet the different needs of the State. Often, instruments other than direct State ownership will be better suited to achieve what the State wants. Which measures are best, we need to assess from a concrete and up-to-date situation. I would also like to remind you that the Stortinget took a position on a proposal from, among others, as late as November 2020. the representative Wilkinson to build a State company, StatMed, to provide national self-production of medicinal products in Norway. As you know, a majority did not consider it appropriate to build a state-owned company responsible for this purpose. I want a strong health industry in Norway. This government has also provided its own big business message about the health industry. The Communication showed that the general industrial policy of the government is good for the health sector and that the health industry is actively using the possibilities of the instrument. The government has no plans to build a state pharmaceutical industry. However, we will continue to contribute to the good framework conditions for business in Norway and continue the strong commitment to research and innovation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1253	I think that the left and the left and the SV disagree a little bit about this, but SV has got a majority in favour of producing antibiotics in Norwegian soil. It was without Left and Right, but we've got other parties on it. I have not seen that the government has done this. There are many fine words from the government, but I've talked to companies, private companies, who are very ready to do the job here, for example. Curida. They don't just want tax cuts, as the Council of State talked about. They want agreements with the state. Curida, for example, exports everything abroad. The state buys almost nothing from Norwegian companies. Why have not the state and the government made good arrangements for the pharmaceutical industry in Norway to have contracts and sell medicines to Norway, to the state?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1260	I think the representative is interested in something important, because although we cannot have all the production of different types of medicines here, we may have something. The emergency response to medicines is something the Minister of Health and Health is working on, and it's all about different things. It's also about having stock, etc. But this is a global market, and that means that one is in global competition and has to compete with other global players. I don't see it as realistic that we should be able to handle all kinds of drug production internally within our own borders, so we depend on having this global market. That's how it relates, and that's how it still has to stick together. But I stress that we are of course interested in creating a good framework for business to be operated from here, including those operating in a global competition market.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1265	This was not good – just to say that Norway should not produce all drugs. Of course – no one has suggested it. No one has suggested it. The Council of State refers to the Minister of Health. I ask for good agreements to Norwegian companies on Norwegian soil because we – the state, the health sector – purchase medicines and infectious diseases equipment, for example. I've said very clearly that Curida is ready. They're clear, but they haven't got any good deals with the state. LMI, those who work for these companies, are also very ready to get good deals. The councils talked about tax cuts, as I also mentioned. They don't have to. They need a deal. I did not get an answer, so I ask again: Will the government make good agreements so that Norwegian companies can sell medicines and infectious diseases equipment to the state of Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1272	The representative says that they have not yet obtained any good agreements. What makes them unable to interfere with the different buyers of what they produce, I don't know, I don't have a thorough knowledge of that. For me, it's important that our business is able to compete for such agreements, because that's exactly what this is all about here. It's about being the one who offers the best product, so you're preferred and chosen. But it's a competition with other external suppliers in that area, so I can't or should say here and now that we're going to prefer one supplier to another, because it has to be the best product and the best contract to make.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1287	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1295	This question, from the representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik to the Minister for Industry, has been transferred to the Minister for Fisheries and Food, who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1300	‘The budget allocated in June to a new research ship of the Institute for the Exploration of the Sea as part of emergency measures for the Norwegian maritime industry. According to Maritimt Magasin, 26 February, the research ship is to be built by the Netherlands Shipyards Group in the Netherlands. The price has been weighted higher than the quality of the tender. In addition, the ship shall be based on old propulsion technology. What is the background to the government’s failure to ensure higher quality weighting and to demand modern propulsion technology to facilitate the construction of the ship in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1307	Last May, the government presented a yard package with a total value of 744 million. kr. The contract for upgrading the shipyards in the Skjold Marine Defense Class has gone to Umoe in Mandal, and all contracts for upgrading the research vessel of the Marine Research Institute have gone to Norwegian shipyards – in other words, the majority of the package has gone to Norwegian shipyards. In the tendering process for the new coastal research vessel, a Dutch shipyard came out the best. The Institute for the Exploration of the Sea states that, to the extent possible under the Public Acquisitions Code, they had facilitated the conclusion of the contract in Norway. Among other things, it was requested that the offers should be delivered in Norwegian. I have full confidence that the Marine Research Institute has managed this acquisition correctly. The representative, Gülsvik, asks why the government has not provided greater emphasis on quality and why no requirements related to propulsion technology were imposed. First of all, I would point out that a different weighting of quality and price would not have changed which yard was commissioned in this case, as according to the Marine Research Institute, the Dutch yard was best on both criteria. More generally, the yard package is an instrument for increasing the amount of tasks undertaken by the public to give the yard more jobs to compete over. No detailed guidance has been provided for individual acquisitions, as we believe that the enterprises themselves are best placed to assess how the acquisition should be organised within the financial framework at their disposal. Furthermore, no claim was made from Stortinget in connection with the treatment. Circumvention of the EEA Agreement and protectionist measures are not in line with government policy. The government prioritises facilitating Norwegian maritime industry to compete in an international market. There is now a yard study in progress where we will get a thorough analysis of the Norwegian yard industry. This will provide an indication of how the industry can be most competitive and provide a good input for further policy development.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1320	I thank you for the answer, but it is little incredible – in this case it is not just that the government has not ensured that the quality was weighted higher. No, the original plans were that quality should be higher, that one should have a ship with fully modern technology and that one had modern battery technology for propulsion on the ship. This is precisely one of the reasons why the Storting chose to spend money on this in the context of the crisis package — one so that this was a modern project that could facilitate activity in Norway. The Marine Research Institute regrets that they did not have a larger government framework. Why has one not provided to grant any extra million dollars, so that one can weigh quality higher and get a top modern ship, which is also built in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1325	No leads were given from Stortinget about what the representative mentioned. In fact, the framework adopted at Stortinget has been extended twice by allowing the Institute of Marine Research to go beyond the framework, among others. with a view to trying to achieve new technology. Then I take note that marine research itself says that you are dependent on long sailing periods, among other things. in the light of the lack of infrastructure. It's e.g. not in place for hydrogen along the coast; it is a little premature for it. In the case of electrification, the vessel is not suitable for that as a main propulsion, so emphasis has been placed on getting the most environmentally friendly technology based on a diesel engine, which I have seen to be popular elsewhere in the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1332	Of course, a user of diesel should also use diesel in these contexts and not force people in parts of Oslo, for example, to sell their diesel car and buy an electric car because it is prohibited to drive that car there. Or as now, for example, in the case of cruise boats, to keep us at sea: we dealt with a matter here in the daytime where, in the world heritage fjords, both in the Near Island and Geirangerfjord, from 2026, cruise ships that don't have zero-emission technology are banned. At the same time, the government through the Marine Research Institute therefore orders a new marine research vessel that will be prohibited from entering the world heritage fjords from 2026. Does the Council not see the great paradox in the fact that the state that buys does not demand the most accessible modern technology, so that one would have facilitated the expansion, jobs and value creation in Norway instead of the disappearance of crisis measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1339	I would like to repeat that the majority of the yard package has gone to Norwegian shipyards. In the case of this vessel, Norwegian shipyards did not reach the competition and the price is weighted 60 pst, quality 40 pst. We have not made detailed demands on marine research as to what kind of demands should be made. They are themselves best placed to assess the type of vessel and how it should be triggered in this case. It must also be mentioned that battery technology can be retrofitted for peak tailings so that world heritage fjords can also be sailed. The coastal vessel itself is going to make an important contribution to marine research along our coast, especially northwards, and can thus also be involved, for example. to gain more knowledge about, among others. Coastal cod, which has been threatened. It has major implications for the eco-labelling of Norwegian fish. So as far as research is concerned, this ship is going to be a great fleet along the coast of the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1349	‘In the last year, many action packages have been addressed to help Norwegian business through the coronary apathy. For the treatment of Prop. 127 S was authorised as part of the measure package for the yard industry to acquire a coastal research vessel within a framework of 110 million. krones. [[2019-2020]] Now it is decided that this ship should be built in the Netherlands. How does this Norwegian shipyard industry help in a demanding time?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1356	As the representative refers to, the government, with the help of the Stortinget and the Progress Party, has, I would say, presented a number of measures to help Norwegian business through the corona pandemic. Several measures are targeted at the yard industry and other maritime sectors, including: new conditioning and loan arrangements for the renewal of short sea shipping fleet and fishing vessel. In addition, the industry benefits from the general measures, such as the stipulations, loan guarantee schemes and deferred and reduced taxes and charges. The yard package, which was submitted last May, has a total value of 744 million. kr. The package consists of upgrading and maintenance of vessels for the Maritime Defence Agency, the Institute of Marine Research, Norway’s geological survey and inspection vessel equipment for the Directorate of Fisheries. The purpose of the yard package is inter alia: to increase the amount of public works contracts for which Norwegian shipyards can compete. The largest share of the yard package consists of upgrading the Marine Defence Shield Class of Coastal Corvettes, which was forced for the period 2020 to 2024, to a value of 514 million. kr. The contract has been awarded a yard in Mandal. The upgrade gives the yard and other national suppliers of subsystems new assignments. All contracts relating to the upgrading of the research vessel of the Institute for the Exploration of the Sea have also gone to Norwegian shipyards. However, in the tender process for a new coastal research vessel, a Dutch shipyard came out best in terms of both quality and price. The offer must then be chosen, and the Minister for Fisheries, who is responsible for the Institute for the Marine Research, has explained on the previous question. Some of the equipment for the ship will be supplied by Norwegian suppliers and all warranty follow-up and service will be provided in Norway. However, the market for the acquisition of ships is international and public purchasers must be in addition to the procurement legislation. The government prioritises facilitating Norwegian maritime industry to compete in an international market. The Government will ensure the EEA Agreement as a support bar for Norwegian jobs and value creation, and we are now closely following developments in the yard industry. Through the now launched yard study, we will gain even better knowledge of the industry situation and a good basis for further policy development.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1369	The question was how this would help the Norwegian shipbuilding industry, and I understand at the Council of State, as an answer like one does, that this contract does not help the Norwegian shipbuilding industry in particular. Quality and price were mentioned. Quality includes: new technologies, and the tenderer, determine the criteria and their weighting. Most people know that quality is important, that new technology is important, and that it costs. When Stortinget adopted the package of measures with a view to the construction of the research ship at a Norwegian shipyard, it should be clear that Norway competes best on quality and not on price. When the government realized that quality and new technology actually cost, and with the background of Storting's intention, shouldn't the government come back to Stortinget and explain that they had made this new discovery?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1376	Questions specifically addressed to the assessments of the Institute for the Exploration of the Sea are best known to the Minister for Fisheries and Food, as they lie in his portfolio and in his constitutional responsibility. However, I do not agree with the premises the representative put into the question, because I believe that I explained in my answer to the total of that package, which has had a significant impact on the yard industry in Norway. It's a fundamental prerequisite as part of the EEA membership we have, that we compete with other companies that want to sign the contract, and then that's the assessment that buyers must make and have done in this case. There is no doubt that the shipbuilding industry has challenges, and that is why we have presented this package. But we're also now working on this offshore containment system and with a little different things in the future, because this is an industry that has challenges in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1383	The package of measures adopted by Stortinget was to help, among other things. Norwegian shipbuilding in a special situation. The Institute for the Exploration of the Sea is bound by the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries. The Chief Executive of the Marine Research Institute has, among other things: in the class struggle, explain why a Dutch shipyard was awarded the contract for the construction of this research ship and tried to refute the criticism that they have been exposed to, inter alia. by a number of staging representatives. In this respect, the senior management shall express the following: “We bend our necks and close our ears for all the stick we get, and know that it’s going to cross.” What does the Council of State, as the responsible State Council of the Marine Research Institute, think of such an opinion by the shipowner?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1393	Now, as I said, the Minister for Fisheries and Food, who is responsible for the State Council of the Marine Research Institute, but they feel that they are in a certain pressure as a result of the public debate that has followed this offer. The size is aware of the rules of the game that apply when we launch public tenders, so it can't be a surprise that other countries, the shipbuilding industry of other countries, want to compete for the various tasks that are being published. In the total package presented, there is a lot – most of it – going to Norwegian shipyards. The marine research institute has made a different assessment, but I am sure they will get a good ship out of this, although we would naturally wish that the Norwegian yards were also competitive in that offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1407	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1415	This question, from the representative Lars Haltbrecken to the Minister for Industry, has been transferred to the Minister for Fisheries and Food, who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1420	‘The new research vessel of the Swedish Research Institute shall be built with corona money in the Netherlands — with old diesel technology. The battery package planned for hybrid operation had to be dropped. It was too expensive. Appropriations of 110 million. SEK for research ships do not exceed. The intention of the Storting was to support the shipyards and to move to lower emissions from Norwegian shipping, but the opposite happened. The ship is built abroad with a normal diesel engine. What has the Council of State done to enable the ship to be built in Norway with low emissions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1427	I get to start by congratulating the representative on the birthday yesterday! The purpose of the yard package is inter alia: to increase the amount of public works contracts for which Norwegian shipyards can compete. The contract for upgrading the Skjold class corvettes for the Maritime Defence has gone to Umoe Mandal, and all the contracts for upgrading the research vessel of the Marine Research Institute have gone to Norwegian shipyards. The bulk of the package has therefore gone to Norwegian shipyards. However, in the tendering process for a new coastal research vessel, there was a Dutch shipyard that came out best in terms of both quality and price, and this offer had to be selected. Public purchasers such as the Marine Research Institute have to deal with procurement legislation. As I have expressed earlier, I have full confidence in how the Marine Research Institute has managed this acquisition. The Foundation states that they have done what they have been able to do to facilitate the competitiveness of Norwegian operators, but they must choose the best offer on the basis of the criteria set out. The marine research institute itself is the closest to assessing how best to organise the acquisition in order to obtain the most appropriate vessel within the financial framework set and in view of the mission to be undertaken by the ship. It is also necessary to take into account that a research vessel such as this will have operations over large geographical areas, with a long time between each port call and calls in ports which do not have infrastructure to support alternative energy carriers such as those. charge or hydrogen fillers. I'm not going to go into the technical details, but it's not true that the ship is built with old technology. The vessel is based on modern technology and will have a low emission of particulate matter and harmful gases, according to the Marine Research Institute. Many measures have been implemented to reduce bunker consumption as much as possible within the given economic framework. The government's policy is to lay down the overall framework conditions for the maritime industries and for those to carry out acquisitions. Among other things, a comprehensive package for green shipping was presented in 2020. Furthermore, emission requirements and regulations will affect the choices made. Then, within these framework conditions, individual purchasers have to decide for themselves what will be the best overall solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1440	I thank you for your answer. I also thank you for the congratulations. I have a follow-up question: the Public Acquisition Act states that it should contribute to ‘reducing harmful environmental impacts and promoting climate-friendly solutions where appropriate’. It must be said to be relevant when talking about the construction of a boat that will go a few years at sea. In the basis of competition for the boat from the Marine Research Institute, it is stated, inter alia, that:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t «The contracting entity will focus on the use of environmentally friendly materials and products for the design, construction and equipment of the coastal research vessel. In doing so, the supplier shall specify and describe the environmentally friendly materials and products that the supplier intends to use in the manufacture of the ship.’;» So there are requirements for choice of materials. But my question is, Is it correct that no requirements were imposed on the emissions from the operation of the boat?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1452	The marine research institute has been in line with the set cost framework and we have not provided detailed guidance on how the acquisition was to be carried out. I would also, to the extent possible, refer to an SV proposal in Stortinget, which I think came up with on this matter, where it is expressed as ‘zero-emission technology where possible’. Some of the issues here are, among other things. that, according to the Marine Research Institute, when the ship is intended to sail over long distances, there is no infrastructure in place today, e.g. in the case of electricity, battery and such items, making it difficult for the purpose of the task to be performed by the ship. You're just a little too early, according to the Marine Research Institute. So I would say, we've managed to electrify ferries, and now speedboats are on their way, so that's -- I'll say -- an iceberg that's in sight for a positive development in emission technology. It is also possible to retrofit this on the vessel.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1461	I thank you again for the answer. Then I will draw attention to the regulation on public acquisitions § 7-9, where it says about minimising environmental impact. It says: ‘The contracting entity shall focus on minimising the environmental impact and promoting climate-friendly solutions in its acquisitions and may set environmental requirements and criteria at all stages of the procurement process where relevant and related to the delivery. Where the environment is used as an award criterion, a minimum 30 % weighting should be applied as a general rule.’;» You can't choose to have 30 pst. environmental weights, but other measures are needed in order to minimise the environmental impact and promote climate-friendly solutions. My question is: was there any other requirements in the tender to reduce the climate load?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1473	I would like to repeat that we have not provided detailed leadership for the acquisition. The marine research institute has remained within the framework set and adopted by the Stortinget, 110 million. kr. In addition, the frame subsequently increased to 128 million. kr to try to get more vessels and equipment for the money, to say it a little popular. I have full confidence that the Marine Research Institute has followed the necessary rules and regulations for public acquisitions, in this case, and they have acquired an important research vessel in connection with the effort we are making to achieve the sustainable development of our marine industries. It includes not only the yard industry, but of course also fisheries and seafood, which is my primary area. I would like to say that Norwegian shipyards have done very well in the construction of ships for fish and farming. There you've really made a difference, and also on missions from abroad, which have gone the other way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1485	‘An NGU report ordered by the State Road Administration refers to concrete weakness zones with very poor mountains in the seabed between Tautra and Otrøya. Can the Council of State guarantee that the reports produced by the State Road Administration for the tunnel section of the project Møreaken demonstrate that it is appropriate to build a tunnel with a depth of more than 300 metres and a length of 16 km in this active earthquake area where the NGU specifies that it must be planned to withstand earthquakes of at least 5.0 on the Richters scale?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1492	I thank you for the question. As part of the planned and subsequent optimisation of the project Møreaksen, extensive engineering survey has been carried out. Very extensive investigations have been carried out with several drilling operations in all critical batches. In addition, seismic and interpretation of best expertise as well as nuclear drilling has been carried out throughout the tunnel length. There are further gained experience from the Flanders Tunnel, which is driven by the corresponding rock formation a few kilometres further east in the fjord. Collecting this means that you have never had better investigations to base your assessments on. In fact, the knowledge of the rock in which the future tunnel will run is now so well documented for this project that the Directorate of Road has agreed to reduce the requirement of minimum mountain coverage for some sections of the tunnel. A dedicated expert group with specialist expertise from both NTNU, SINTEF, NGU and the consulting industry has been set up in addition to own expertise in the State Road Administration. The expert group has followed the project closely and is advised to advise on the current exploration of the rock floor. The group is planned to follow the project further through the development period and until the project is completed. The report from NGU, prepared in 2015 by Statens vägvesen, dealt with issues such as: the risk of earthquakes and the forces for which the tunnel must be planned. According to the State Road Service's assessment, the forces that will affect the tunnel at any earthquake of this size will not be so great that there is a need for increased tunnel protection beyond what is in any case necessary to secure the mine/tunnel. During construction, tunnels are built using the drilling and blasting method, and the mountain is therefore exposed to many strong shakings along the way. The state road authority has made assessments of possible indirect damage caused by scrap and tsunami that could be thought to occur after an earthquake. Thorough surveys have been carried out in connection with the Nautneset tunnel. In addition, the tunnel has been laid above the highest calculated height of a thousand-year walk. Based on the studies carried out and the measures taken during the construction of the tunnel, a future two-way tunnel under the Romsdalsfjord will be a fully defensive solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1509	I thank you for the answer, but I notice that the Council of State does not dare to guarantee that a tunnel that will tolerate 5.0 on the Richters scale, as recommended by the NGU, will be built. I don't think it's strange when people may be thinking about driving in a tunnel below the spring – 300 meters deep, 16 kilometers long, and with any risk of cracking. We know there's been earthquakes here -- all the way up to 4.0 on the Richter scale, actually -- in these areas, so it's exposed. So this comes to the top of the uncertainty about creating a tunnel under the fjord anyway, in view of heavy car traffic, etc. So I'm going to ask, isn't it natural to think that the Council of State could gain experience from another risk project first, namely Rogfast, before he even thinks about planning the Moor axis?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1518	We are the country most advanced in the construction of underwater tunnels. In Rogaland, we just opened a big tunnel called Ryfast. We are now building Rogfast, and the professional environments we have in Norway are the world's foremost. What I wanted with the answer I gave was to say something about the thoroughness of the work done here by the State Road Administration. I don't think any of us want to invest large amounts that create uncertainty. So it's difficult for politics to assess these kinds of issues, but what I've done is to get a comprehensive description from the State Road Service of the work that's been done. I think we might sum up by saying that we don't have a better professional environment in the world on this issue than what we have in Norway. We have done a considerable amount of work, and I am confident that the work that will also be done will be linked to the Møreak.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1527	I thank you for that answer too. Governments referred to the best professional environment in the world. The best professional environment in Norway, at least, is probably NORSAR. As far as I know, NORSAR has not been directly contacted in this case. One did not refer to it in that group of experts either, I think. So my question is also whether the Council of State will ensure that NORSAR is also contacted in this connection. Otherwise, more than 35 km of the track is planned in the tunnel and is in many ways a hugely money-consuming environmental and climate hostile project, as SV sees it. In our large plan for a fair green shift, it is known to the Council of State that we want frequent zero-emission ferries instead of these underwater adventurous tunnels to which it is added. When will the Council of State realize that frequent zero-emission ferries, with self-driving successively, will be the most remote option for all the swollen fjord crossings in the ferries-free E39? Will he consider this as an exhibition window for the Norwegian maritime industry, if any?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1536	There are two problem options for the representative Nävra to take up here. The only thing I want to say is that I think it's wise that we have contact with different professional environments. That's why I'm going to ask the State Road Administration to contact the professional community NORSAR to follow it up. So there's a problem: what's the solution to this? Regardless of that, I think everyone is concerned that there should be safe and good solutions. There is a political disagreement about what we are going to do with some fjord-crossing projects. I think we should give priority to the fjord crossing projects that are the most current, and for example. in Rogaland it was the government of Arne Nävra that started the project linking to Ryfast. Rogfast is now coming and will also provide significant development and means something other than ferry business, for example. linked to the route between North and South Rogaland. There is a political aspect, but we can be quite certain that we want safe development in any case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1546	‘As part of the railway reform, Bane NOR was established. According to the National Audit Office, the company lacks cost control, which creates challenges for the implementation of railway projects in NTP. According to the leakages from the next NTP, the government chooses to transfer the joint project E16/Ringeriksbanen to New Roads. Is it true that when the government has failed with its railway reform, they do not choose to clean up the messed up reform, but they choose to move projects from Bane NOR to New Roads?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1553	I thank you for the question. I want to answer no to that, but naturally it takes time to implement the railway reform. We've also seen that from other sectors. It's natural for me to point to the health reform, which we also saw took time before we got it into life in a good way. I briefed the Control and Constitutional Committee on 22 February this year on the fact that there is now work to be done in the ministry. We address the governance of the railway sector in order to identify actions that will provide them with the right incentives for good financial management and effective task-solving. In this distribution work, we work, among other things. assessing whether there are elements from the New Vegar model that should also be used in the railway sector. In parallel with the distribution work and as part of facilitating cross-sectoral learning, the government is working to identify improvement measures. These will be presented in the national transport plan 2022-2033. One of the improvement measures proposed by the government is to give New Vegar responsibility for the planning and implementation of the Ringeriksbanen and E16 Skaret–Høgcastet joint project. At least as important is the work done by the government to improve the framework conditions for Bane NOR, so that the enterprise is better able to perform its tasks efficiently and with good cost control. There will be substantial funds for the railway, and the goal of the government is to get the most back for the money we invest in the railway. New Vegar, on behalf of the Ministry of Transport, has assessed the potential and risk associated with the company taking responsibility for the planning and implementation of the joint project. New Vegar estimates that it is possible to finance the joint project without having to increase the overall cost framework and with significantly improved socio-economic profitability. I think it would be exacerbating that New Vegar will also be responsible for the railway part of the joint project. In this way, we can facilitate a corresponding dynamic in the railway sector created in the road sector between the State Road Administration and New Roads. I still think the most important thing in this case is that New Vegar sees the possibility of improving the joint project, and that they have shown that they have a good cost control system. We're working on improving the rail sector, and I think having two railway development environments, as we have on the road side, will create a positive dynamic. Those who are happy in the railway should also think that the possibility one has got on the road side should then certainly also get the railway into the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1570	There are many people who are happy about the railways, but the cost increases on the Bane NOR projects make it impossible to achieve the objectives of the NTP, says the Council of State – in various leaks. Fortunately, Bane NOR maintains its priority of operation and maintenance, even if the aftermath increases. When we see the level of ambition of the outer intercity, this really cracks. The Ringeriksbanen is transferred to Nye Weier, and – I must say – without political influence on the start and end date of a project that should already have been started. It has been less than a year since there were strong reactions in the construction industry when Bane NOR cancelled a major advisory assignment on the development of the construction against Hamar. Now the same thing happens again. The cost increases and increasing railway priorities have led to the fall of the Oslotunelle down and perhaps out of the priority list. Tenders have been cancelled on the upstream side, and the directorate says that there may not be a need for the Oslotunelle. Is the Oslotunelle a prerequisite for carrying out intercity projects?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1579	We know that there will be a need for an oslotunell. It's important for all of Norway's railways, and that's natural enough for us to point out when we put forward a national transport plan. Then I would like to say that if we choose to transfer a project to New Vegar, it would be natural in that round to also discuss start-up and any end date associated with such a project. It's also because the portfolio of New Roads on the track would then consist of one big project, and it wouldn't be natural to put it into, call it, the road portfolio of New Roads. I noticed the representative Fasteraune pointed out that there would be a need to know what time one starts with such a project, and also the end date, and that's what we also think we need to have control of. To get New Roads to that project, we also need to get a certain overview when the Ringerix path comes, what time it will start up, and what time it will be.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1588	I thank you for your answer. The latter should also apply to the other road projects they have. So now there's uncertainty about the Ringeriksbanen, the Oslotunelle and the intercity, and the situation is obviously too big for the Bane NOR portfolio, and it's out of control. But the railway is so much more. What about K5 Bergen-Voss? What about Ofotbanen? What about Narvik Terminal? What about freight packages, electrification, two-time departure Oslo-Trondheim and bet on the Trenderbanen to Steinkjer? Are these also projects that now fall within the category «live and see», or are these projects that should be carried out? Many of those projects are fully detailed and need only a signal of decision-making.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1595	I thought the representative Fasteraune said it well when he said that the portfolio of Bane NOR is too large, and that is a very good argument for giving New Vegar a project and thus dividing that portfolio. When Magnhild Melting Party Kleppa was a state councillor, she started a spin-off. A significant increase started in her time, and one bet on the railway. We have more than three-fold rail clearances over the decade that has now passed. But we see that because of the cost excesses we have, we will have a challenge to deliver the projects that are both finished, mature and ready to start. We've had a lot of overcosts, and I'm just thinking about getting two development environments, getting some of the same dynamics that we've had on the road, is a very good way to get better results in the future, so that we get the most possible railway for the money.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1605	‘The introduction of loss limits at Norsk Rikstototo has created challenges for many players and is expected to reduce the gambling company and Norwegian horse sports revenues by significant amounts. How much does the Council of State believe that Norsk Rikstototo’s turnover will decline, believes that the channelling rate of foreign gambling companies will rise as a result of the introduction, and disagrees with the leader of Norwegian Travstoto that there is no link between the introduction of loss limits and the removal of toalisator charges that many experienced as a corona crisis response?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1612	The representative Gulati begins by saying that the introduction of loss limits in Norsk Rikstototo has created challenges for many players. I don't know what challenges he's actually facing, but I'm myself concerned with the challenges of problematic gambling behavior for players who are struggling with this, and for their family members. I am therefore pleased that there was a broad consensus on preserving and strengthening the model of exclusive rights as a tool for ensuring responsible gambling that prevents negative social consequences. The turnover of Norsk Rikstototo has shown a falling trend in recent years. The challenge for Rikstototo will be to channel a greater share of the gambling appetite in society into its game products. In this context, it is positive that Rikstototo has informed the ministry that the number of players in them has increased since the new year. In June 2020, Norwegian Rikstototo provided a forecast showing that the loss limit model introduced would reduce turnover by 12 pst. So far, the decline in turnover is significantly lower than the forecast of June last year. As of 14 February of this year, turnover had fallen by 5.5 pst. compared to the same period in 2020. The average decrease in turnover until 14 February of the two years preceding the introduction of the loss limits was 4,5 pst. per year. Norsk Rikstototo expects the loss limits to lead to a stronger decline in turnover in the future. Norwegian Rikstototo has a number of players who play too much – and lose large amounts. Some of these are likely to apply to other gambling companies when they are stopped by the loss limits. This is likely to have little impact on the degree of channelling of the regulated gambling market in Norway, but is an important explanation of why the introduction of maximum limits leads to a decrease in the turnover of Rikstototo. The link between the introduction of loss limits and the removal of toalisator charges is that both measures have an impact on the framework conditions for horse-sports. The loss limits lead to a reduction in the turnover of Norsk Rikstoto and thus to a reduction in the means of transfer to the horse sport. The exemption from the toalisator’s fee will lower the costs for Norsk Rikstototo and therefore more funds to be transferred to the horse sport. I feel that the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture was also concerned with this connection in the examination of the proposal for a representative on loss limits last autumn. At the time, the committee agreed that it was right to impose loss limits, but the Stortinget also took a decision on a request that the toalisator fee be permanently removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1625	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. We agree that combating gambling addiction is an important societal task. However, the way in which Norwegian Rikstototo’s turnover is linked is, among other things, that a small group of players, called high-intensity players, who play more like a professional money placement, account for a relatively large proportion of Rikstototo’s income and also for Rikstototo’s cash flows. Our fear, and also many in the fear of the horse environment, is that this introduction does not contribute to a reduction in gambling addiction, but rather to a reduction in the income of the high-intensity group. I know that the Council of State is concerned with a high degree of channelling to Norsk Rikstototo. It is already on approx. 98 pst, whether I'm not wrong, and that she's concerned about the exclusive model. Does not the Council of State see the challenge and the problem that the implementation of the loss limits can contribute to a lower level of channelling and therefore a challenge to the exclusive right model?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1632	I, as the Council of State, am concerned about the consequences of the implementation of the loss limits, but when the loss limit model was introduced, as I have seen, the very phase-in of the loss limits adopted by the Storting was done in the way proposed by Norsk Rikstototo herself. Initially, I had assumed that it would be a smooth phase-in. Then, in mid-January, Norsk Rikstototo promoted a proposal for a different approach to that phase-in, precisely with the question that the representative has. Now the Lottery Authority and Norsk Rikstototo are working with the Department to see if there is any possibility of a more flexible introduction within the frameworks given.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1639	To a slightly different side of this issue: there has been great concern about the increase in possible game manipulation, among other things. as a consequence of the introduction of the loss limit, and such as Trav and Galopp-Neut, among others. has been rewritten, it has also been a case at the end of February where one has seen a possible case of game manipulation. I wonder if the Council of State is concerned about this, and what she might do to ensure that we do not see any more cases like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1646	I, as the State Council, am concerned both with ensuring what we have allowed by games in Norway, and that the Lottery Authority will work on the limits of manipulation and to prevent foreign gaming companies from accessing what they should not have access to. I believe that the Lottery Authority must at all times be concerned with preventing that possibility and reducing that possibility window, whether it is called manipulation or other access to the Norwegian market.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1660	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1674	This question has been withdrawn. Case No. So 2 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-10.ana.ud390e1690	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
