ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-23.ana.ud69e42	Honourable co-representatives! Former Swedish Depositary Representative for SV Inge Myrvoll passed away in October 2020, at the age of 72. Inge was a cross-breeding solidarity. The honorary man Inge was deeply anchored in the Rana community and North Norway. He was also the industrial worker with a perspective far beyond local and national policies. In addition, the relationship between practical solutions in the Norwegian community and the international struggle against fascism and repression. In 1989 he was elected as a magnificent representative of Nordland SV to Stortinget. For three periods he was a member of the Transport Committee. He traveled country and beach around and translated local desires into national politics. He was strategic, thought long-term and was the railway champion over someone. Inge was humorous and caring. He enjoyed cross-political respect and was a raw negotiator for SV and Nordland. In 2003 he was elected rapporteur in Rana, and he went in front to establish Campus Helgeland. He went ahead to increase the proportion of women in all the boards where the municipality of Rana had something to say, and he was introduced to the schools in the municipality. He was a targeted socialist, always concerned with creating practical results for ordinary people. Inge was a strong supporter of red-green cooperation. In the years 2005 to 2013, SV received good advice, ideas and support to implement pragmatic compromises to meet tomorrow’s challenges of climate-friendly and environmentally friendly solutions that most people could want and accept. The party is eternally grateful for Inge Myrvoll's efforts for SV's movement and will miss his keen gaze at political opportunities and solutions. Inge Myrvoll will be missed for his humor and his kindness. No one was deeply happy in his family, and our thoughts go to them. We bring peace to Inge Myrvoll's memory.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-23.ana.ud69e65	The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For Buskerud: Sigrid Simensen Ilsøy For Hedmark: Ole Mathias Rønaasen For Hordaland: Ane Breivik For Oslo: Agnes Nærland Wilderzeich For Eastfold: Shakeel Rehman The Workers' Group has been informed of the withdrawal of the permit granted to representatives of Åsmund Aukrust on 23 and 24 November. – This message is taken into account. Three permit applications are available: by the SV’s Group on Permit under the Rules of Procedure of the Storting § 5, second sentence, of the representative Kirsti Bergstø and of the Workers’ Party’s Group on Permit under the Rules of Procedure of the Storting § 5, second sentence, of the representative Ragnhild Male Hartviksen – both from 23 November until further notice, from the Left-wing Group on the welfare leave of the representative Alfred Jens Bjørlo from 24 to 30 November On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus: Haitham El-noush and Tobias Hangaard Linge For Sogn and Fjordane: Gunhild Berge Stag
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-23.ana.ud69e138	Haitham El-noush and Tobias Hangaard Linge are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-23.ana.ud69e145	The Stortinget has received notice from Grand President Eva Kristin Hansen that she is withdrawing as President of the Stortinget. It is proposed that this communication be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. It will facilitate the election of the new President as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-23.ana.ud69e159	The representative, Seher Aydar, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-23.ana.ud69e164	On behalf of the representative Mimir Kristjánsson and myself, I would like to propose to publish the report ‘Exports of Welfare Benefits’ from 2014 in order to ensure that the Nav scandal victims are provided with the necessary information to assess claims for compensation and that all stones in the case are reversed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-23.ana.ud69e169	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that there will be voting on the case no. 1-3 now initially. After that, case No. 5, Unit. The President therefore asks the representatives to be present until the minutes have been finalised. Case No. 1-3 will be treated as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-23.ana.ud69e213	No one has asked to speak on the matter. 1 to 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-23.ana.ud69e225	Case No. 1-3 is the second reading of legislative acts and concerns legislative acts 2, 3 and 4. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-23.ana.ud69e267	The size would then go back to the treatment of today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-23.ana.ud69e281	For approx. 150 years ago, the convention came into effect. It happened at the Diplomatic International Meters Conference in Paris, signed on 20 May 1875. The set-up of the metering system contributed to the homogeneity of physical units across national borders. Already on 26 May the same year, Norway — in this room — became the first country in the world to ratify the convention. It was a demonstration of Norwegian independence. Sweden had wanted to represent both Norway and Sweden. However, it was also an expression of the importance of common standards — especially for a country such as Norway, with an open economy and extensive trade. Then it's important that a kilogram is actually a kilogram, and that a meter is actually a meter, no matter what market you want to export to. So I'm going to add that I recognize that many people feel that the meter has been a little long in the last year. Among those in this room, there are different views of the EU and the EEA. It's also going to be the time that comes, but I think that everyone here, no matter what party they represent, feels that they're part of a European community. I also believe that most people share the idea that European countries, at a time of increasing polarisation and major activisation, are serving to cooperate closely. That is why the discussion we are going to have in Stortingen on Thursday is important, and that we have an active discussion about our relationship with Europe. What are the challenges, and how can we best work together to meet them? Here are more answers. National states remain the primary framework for political response and responsibility, but the real challenges we face require international cohesion and international solidarity. I believe that in meeting the major challenges we face today, we are not the strongest alone. They must meet with committed cooperation across borders. The climate crisis and pandemic are two examples of this to the full. We're at a time when power relationships are changing, and how past fixed points are less solid. Then it's in the North and in Europe that we can find a community of values. The Hurdal Platform notes that Nordic and European countries are Norway’s main partners, both politically and economically. I want to stand up clearly for an open and cooperating Europe. The Hurdal platform also states that the government will not apply for Norwegian membership of the EU. The framework for European policy is firm. It consists of the EEA Agreement, the Schengen Agreement and the many other agreements we have concluded with the EU and European countries. We will also focus on the close cooperation Norway has with the EU in the field of foreign and security policy. Within these frameworks, the government wants to pursue an active European policy. It shall be broad in scope in order to safeguard Norwegian interests and contribute to European solutions. The members of the Government will therefore prioritise close contact and cooperation with colleagues in the EU Member States and institutions in their respective fields. The Nordic countries are our closest partners in Europe, Germany is our most important. Nordic cooperation is an important part of the government's European policy. Nordic cooperation increases the chances of penetration in the European arena. We have a lot of common interests with our Nordic friends. We have the same political base in key areas covered by the EEA, such as employment, welfare and tripartite cooperation. Nordic and European cooperation is based on a strong community of values. Together, we must strengthen democracy and the rule of law. We must counteract authoritarian trends and xenophobia, both in our own societies and in the rest of Europe. To succeed, we need to strengthen cooperation with like-minded people. Regardless of alliance relations, we have a strong Nordic interest community. And regardless of their relationship with the EU, we share the ambition that the Nordic region should be a precursor region of climate and environment. We're going to play an active part in the green reconstruction and conversion. Here what's called Europe's green give is a very good frame. This large green migration agenda offers opportunities to develop Nordic technology, competitiveness and growth in the years to come. At the same time, we are totally dependent on fair and social migration if we are to succeed. In 2022 Norway takes over the Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers and Nordic cooperation. I know that there is a great deal of commitment in this Chamber, because there are many who are actively involved in the Nordic Council. That is what we will use to contribute to a clear Nordic voice in the discussion also at European level. The debate on Europe is important for Norway. The EEA Agreement and our cooperation with Europe affect Norwegian interests and Norwegian policies in a broad sense – including many issues where domestic politics is a good break-up and healthy disagreement here at Stortinget. We'll probably see that on Thursday. In that case, we should not debate the questions when they have a European policy heading. The government is taking the initiative of the Hurdals Platform to investigate the experience of EEA cooperation in the last 10 years. The 2012 study on Norway’s agreements with the EU provided us with a great deal of insight into EEA cooperation and the impact of the EEA Agreement on Norway. In the same year, the red-green government followed up with a communication to the United Kingdom on European policy, on the EEA Agreement and Norway’s other agreements with the EU. But a lot has happened in the last ten years. The EU has evolved, and Norway has also. The geopolitical picture has also undergone major changes since 2012. We will therefore update our knowledge and assess the experience from the EEA. It is the most comprehensive agreement Norway has ever concluded. It will be useful and positive for the Norwegian social debate. As declared an EEA trailer, I am strongly attached to a lot of discussion. The EEA Agreement is often accused of being complex, technical and difficult to access. It also says experts in the field. It is therefore important that the investigation also contributes to the most accessible information. We must ensure that as much as possible can participate in the debate on such an important topic for Norway. We want the investigation to highlight the challenges and opportunities that the EEA has provided to Norway in the last decade. We also want to look at the experience of other related countries outside the EU from their relationship with European cooperation. Like the 2012 investigation, the new investigation should be research and knowledge-based. We will now look into the mandate, organisation and form of work. The aim is to launch the investigation in the new year. The basic premises for government's European policy and EEA cooperation are laid down in the Hurdal platform. The government will investigate and use the space for action we have to influence common European rules before they are adopted. We will also exploit the space for action contained in EEA legislation. We need to implement the rules in a way that is best suited to Norwegian circumstances. We want to contribute to the development of justice in the EU and the EEA through interventions at European level. We also want to pay particular attention to ensuring national control in areas such as Norwegian working life, energy and rail. Let me illustrate with the area of working life: we have a lot of work immigration, and we need that. However, in Norway, no matter where you come from, Norwegian pay and working conditions apply. The previous government announced in Prop. 1 S an EU/EEA work programme in January. It doesn't think this government will do. We are now going through EEA cooperation in the relevant policy areas. We're going to look at how we can best put this work in line with the Hurdal platform. We'll get back to Stortinget with this in an appropriate way. The European Commission has presented its work programme for 2022. The message is continuity and tough course. The main priorities are fixed, including green and digital conversion. These are the priorities the government ends up whole-hearted about. I look at developments in some European countries with great concern. Democratic values are undermined and the rule of law is challenged. I would quote a prominent Norwegian lawyer, Merete Smith, Secretary General of the Norwegian Law Association. She says, "One of the most important qualities of a society is that it can rightly call itself a state of justice." Undermining the rule of law in some European countries also has consequences for countries around it. Both the internal market and judicial cooperation are based on common legislation with mutual rights and obligations, both for businesses and for individuals. It requires a well-functioning and independent legal system in all participating countries. Efforts to meet these challenges will be given high priority by the government. International and European cooperation only works if the basic values and the basic rules are respected. Attacks on the media, civil society and courts are totally unacceptable. We must step up efforts to combat the spread of hateful expressions and violence against vulnerable groups, such as LHBTI individuals. It is especially important to remember today, when we were told that Kim Friele has gone away, that even though we have come very far in our country, there are groups who are subjected to violence and hatred. And to honor her memory, it is important that Norway takes the lead in that struggle. We must also step up efforts in the area of gender-based violence, in line with the Istanbul Convention. The attacks on the rights of LHBTI persons blend into a trend that also includes restrictions on abortion and women’s rights and restrictions on freedom of expression and voluntary engagement. They represent an attack on openness, tolerance and modernity. Through the funds for civil society, we support a number of these initiatives. They include the fight against hateful expressions and the promotion of tolerance and respect for diversity. One example is in Bulgaria, where the Bulgarian organisation ‘Fine Arts Foundation’ conducts a creative campaign against hateful expressions. It has engaged 35 leading Bulgarian artists, with a number of urban artworks, videos and illustrations. The aim is to raise awareness of the consequences of hateful opinions for marginalised groups such as space people, LHBTI people and refugees and for society as a whole. The campaign has already reached more than one million people. We want to establish closer dialogue with the European Commission and other key European institutions and networks to meet democratic challenges in Europe. For a long time, I have been very concerned about the negative development in Poland. We have already cut off municipalities and regions that have declared themselves to be LHBTI-ideology-free zones, from support. We've also scaled down parts of the judicial cooperation. I took this up when I sat on Stortinget, in a question to the Minister of Foreign Affairs at that time. I'm glad she followed it up. Despite a negative development, there have also been some positive signs this autumn. Four Polish provinces have lifted their anti-LHBTI declarations. It shows that it's progress. This has come as a result of international pressure and signals that they may lose financial support. But there's still a lot left. Declarations against LHBTI are active in about 50 Polish municipalities. In several of them, municipal councils voted this autumn at the latest to maintain the declarations. This is worrying. We will follow closely the Polish authorities' attitude to commitments and common rules in European cooperation. The Polish government's signal that it no longer accepts the principle of primacy of EU law creates uncertainty, including for Norwegian companies and Norwegian citizens. Norwegian investors, travellers, students and others need to be sure that our common European legislation is also in force in Poland. We will now carry out a full review of programme cooperation with Poland to ensure increased monitoring and control of Norwegian funds. The government will come back to the Storing about this. The Government of Solberg decided this summer to stop further dialogue with Hungary on EEA funds. Hungarian authorities could not accept the choice of the best candidate of the fund operator for civil society funds. In line with the agreement concluded with the Hungarian Government, it was therefore clear that all funds for the period 2014-2021 would be suspended. The current government, of course, maintains this decision. We are about to start new negotiations with the European Union on EEA funds for the period 2021-2028. Both EEA/EFTA countries and the EU submitted analyses before the summer which showed that there is still a need for social and economic cohesion contributions in the EEA region. Therefore, the EEA Committee agreed on 11 June 2021 to start new negotiations. Like previous Norwegian governments, we will make clear demands and conditions for Norwegian funds. The EU has recently adopted rules that relate respect for the rule of law to the disbursement of budgetary resources to Member States. A prerequisite for a new period will be that we have at least as effective mechanisms in place for EEA funds. The Hurdal Platform has announced a review of the impact of EEA funds. In the review, we will also look at how the efforts to promote the rule of law and democracy can be strengthened. Civil society is under increasing pressure in many countries and needs are high. I believe that Norway should be a predictable and long-term contributor. However, the amount of the contributions must be seen in the light of whether economic developments in beneficiary countries continue to meet the threshold for receiving EEA funds and the development of EU own resources for similar purposes. We are facing a worrying and unbridled humanitarian situation at the Polish-Belarusian border. This crisis is due to the fact that the Belarusian authorities have been cynical in their use of vulnerable people as a foreign policy press agent. Migrant flows have been going on since the summer, and we have seen a sharp deterioration in recent times. This is something that the Lukashenko regime has actively facilitated. Belarus has full responsibility for the flow of migrants to the borders with Poland and Lithuania. The exploitation of migrants shows the true face of this regime. We are in full solidarity with Poland, Lithuania and the EU in their efforts to deal with the crisis created by the Belarusian authorities at the EU's external borders. Belarus is led by an authoritarian regime that brutally strikes down on all regime-critical voices. Norway, together with our close partners, will maintain the pressure against the Lukashenko regime for its gross behaviour against its population and unfriendly behaviour towards neighbouring countries. We have joined all of the EU's sanctions against Belarus. We will continue to coordinate closely with our European partners in addressing the challenges of Belarus. The greening of Europe will be the key driver of green change in Norway in the future. The green give is at least three things at once. It is the EU's growth strategy. It is the EU's follow-up to the UN's sustainability objectives. And that's the implementation of the climate commitments in the Paris Agreement. So it's an climate programme, but it's just as much a growth and industrial programme. It shall create jobs and continue to generate value, but also cut emissions. Europe's economy, energy system and consumption are to be transformed, and most sectors are affected: transport, construction, industry, energy, agriculture, nature, trade, etc. The goal is a climate-neutral society in 2050. By 2030, climate emissions shall be cut by at least 55 pst. Ready for the 55-pack, the course was out for this target. For Norway, this development is crucial. This is because much of the legislation becomes ours through EEA cooperation, because we have our own climate agreement with the EU, and because the EU is our most important market. The green giver opens up new opportunities for Norwegian value creation and exports. Therefore, we will develop a strategic industrial partnership with the EU. It will strengthen our ability to create jobs throughout Norway. It's not just an analysis. We need a strategy for industrial investment and conversion. Norway and Norwegian business will be part of the solution for achieving Europe’s climate targets. Here's a good starting point: We are leading the development of carbon capture and storage. There is a technology Europe needs to achieve its climate objectives, which will benefit Norwegian industry, society and business. We also have strong professional environments for the development of sea winds, such as at SINTEF and in large Norwegian offshore companies. In the United States Equinor has been chosen to supply the state of New York with sea wind power in one of the largest renewable energy allocations in the United States. Europe will need more of this too. The green transition effort in EU programme cooperation and Horizon Europe is therefore important for Norwegian research and innovation environments and for Norwegian enterprises. We're a trigger for green shipping. An example of this is the electrification of ferry connections. We are also one of the world's largest exporters of seafood. We are facing a radical transformation of our continent – from fossil to renewable. There are consequences for Norway as a major exporter of oil and gas, for the EU-Russia relationship, and for the relationship between Europe, the United States and China. Climate change will also be a struggle for future technology. It intervenes in trade policy and major activisation. We also see climate policy leading to increased interest in the Arctic and the North, which is Norway's main strategic area of interest. All of this will make increased demands on Norway as an energy nation, on our foreign policy and on our foreign service. That's why it's also going to be a natural main theme for us in the future. The pandemic revealed major vulnerabilities in security of supply and health care inputs. Over the course of the crisis, the EU has been our closest, most important and most reliable partner. Let me direct a special thank you to Sweden. Their support and efforts have been invaluable in this context. The EU has not least given us access to vaccine purchase agreements. It was not obvious, but came about through close dialogue with the European Commission and EU countries. Without the EU, we would not be able to ensure access to vaccines for the population of Norway as quickly as we did. The EU is now strengthening its cooperation in health preparedness. This includes access to medical countermeasures throughout the value chain. The government is working to establish a good Norwegian connection. Such a link shall strengthen national preparedness and may provide opportunities for the health industry. This will be in Norway's interest. At the same time, we will be able to contribute to the benefit of other countries. We will assess the framework for this when cooperation is further clarified. The EU strengthens its role as a security policy actor. The new EU strategic compass will be presented next year. It will set way too much of the further work in this area. It is in Norway’s interest to follow this trend. In this context, we will particularly strengthen cooperation with our Nordic neighbours, Germany, the United Kingdom and other neighbouring countries, in line with the Hurdal platform. Among the allies, there is a broad consensus that the EU is neither a realistic nor a desirable alternative to NATO. To put things in perspective: in NATO, non-EU countries still stand for over 80 pst. of the defence expenditure. But there are areas that affect our security and that fall completely or partly outside the scope of NATO. Here, I think it makes sense to cooperate with the EU when it serves Norway’s interests. A good example of this is military mobility. In crisis or war, it is absolutely essential that we be able to move personnel and materials across borders quickly. The EU sits here on many of the solutions. Cooperation in Europe is not a competitor here for NATO. It builds directly upon the allies' ability to cooperate and thus to NATO's credibility. This is why Norway has joined the permanent structured cooperation of the EU, PESCO, in this field. This has also been done by other allies, including The United States and Canada. Norway is also participating in the EU Defence Fund. It supports projects to develop defence equipment and technology. The Fund covers research, development and production. Being here strengthens the Norwegian defence industry's access to the European defence market. That's good for our safety, and that's good for our business. A prerequisite for participation in the defence fund is that we are part of the internal market for defence acquisitions through the EEA Agreement. But the very participation in the fund has been achieved through a great commitment to this hall when the long-term defence plan was presented. We also benefit from dialogue with the EU in other areas, such as: export control and screening of foreign investment. Exchange of experience provides the basis for developing good Norwegian policy. Coordination and cooperation can also prevent pressure. The Hurdal Platform shows that the government is to contribute to enhanced judicial cooperation in Europe. The aim is better to combat digital and other cross-border crime. Cooperation is particularly anchored by the Schengen Agreement. This includes, inter alia: common external border control and close European police cooperation. A number of common ICT systems have been rolled out in the Schengen countries to support cooperation. The Schengen countries have agreed to introduce a number of new or upgraded common ICT systems for, among others. border control. The systems will be central to strengthening social security in Norway and Europe, including the fight against cross-border crime and terrorism. The government of the Hurdal platform states that we will enter into dialogue with the EU as soon as possible with the aim of ensuring Norway's derogation from parts of the fourth rail package. The meeting of the EEA Committee on 29 October was the first after the government change. Norway’s representative made the EU side aware of the government platform in this field. The representative of the EU’s foreign service replied that the Commission would be informed of the Norwegian message. In particular, we are sceptical about the tendering requirements for passenger train services. We believe that tenders are not the only means of ensuring good agreements for the State as a purchaser of train services, which provides the passengers with a good rail service. There should be great national freedom to choose this away. Our EEA partners are now aware of our policy objectives. We are now assessing the legislative scope for action in order to identify the need for further exemptions. Changes in EEA obligations already accepted by Norway are a long-term process. Exploiting the opportunities already provided by EEA legislation is thus a way to implement the railway policy of the Government as quickly as possible. The Hurdal platform determines that the action space of the EEA Agreement is to be put into service, with particular emphasis on ensuring, inter alia, national control. the energy area. The clean energy package is central to achieving the EU energy and climate targets for 2030. The package includes audits of the Electricity Markets Directive, the Electricity Regulation and the Acer Regulation. In addition, the package contains rules on energy efficiency improvement, energy in buildings, renewable energy and a management system for the EU Energy Union and climate objectives. The development towards a more climate-friendly energy system in the EU requires coordination between countries and energy authorities. We ourselves have good experience with this from the Nordic power market cooperation. We share the EU's ambition to develop a clean and competitive energy sector at the lowest possible cost. Norway already has ambitious renewable energy targets. Our renewable share is today at around 70 pst. Good access to renewable energy enables us to further invest in the electrification of the transport sector and other sectors. When we now assess the adopted legislation, we will look at the impact on the Norwegian energy sector and the need for EEA adaptations. We are committed to ensuring constitutional reasons and fully secure Norwegian interests. Any negotiations with the EU on EEA adaptations will take time. It is therefore too early to say anything about when the Clean Energy package will be presented to the Stortinget. The Meteorological Convention established pay conditions for employees. The pay for the office boy was set at 1,500 francs. The director got ten more times: 15 000 francs. It was a far too biased distribution, you ask me, but at least some kind of regulated terms. Being part of a larger European labour market has served Norway well. The labour force of other EEA countries has helped to meet the needs of enterprises for labour. This has been particularly important in periods of high activity in the economy. But there's one prerequisite that's central. It is that Norwegian pay and work conditions apply in Norway. As a result of lower activity and restrictions on entry during the coronary apathy, labour migration to Norway decreased. The situation in the economy has now turned upside down, and more industries report difficulties in recruiting labour with the necessary skills. The EEA labour force is an important complement to domestic labour in certain sectors. At the same time, we see that the safe, serious and organised working life in Norway is challenged by unprofessional actors, social dumping and low levels of organisation in highly vulnerable sectors. It helps to weaken the Norwegian working life model and the recruitment of some important professions. The government will pursue an active labour market policy. We will prevent labour immigration from leading to social dumping and pressure on Norwegian wage and working conditions. We will also do this in situations where Norwegian labour law and collective bargaining agreements are challenged by EEA cooperation. Part of the labour force is hired from a manning company in another EEA country. These workers have lower levels of organisation than others. They are often not aware of their rights under Norwegian laws and regulations. For this group, collective redress is an important complement to ensure that they receive what they are entitled to. I proposed the right to collective action as Minister of Labour, but it was reversed by the previous government, and I am happy to be able to join in reintroducing this now. Last year the Commission presented a proposal for a directive on adequate minimum wages and salaries in Europe. The aim of the proposal is to ensure good working conditions in which all workers are to be protected by a sufficiently high minimum wage. It is good that the Commission prioritises better living standards and higher wages for the lowest paid in Europe. The intention of the proposal for a directive to strengthen the basis for collective bargaining is good. That being said, high levels of organisation and strong trade unions are at the heart of the Norwegian work model. Neither the social partners nor the government want a directive that can interfere with wage formation and the independent role of the parties. Unfortunately, the challenge of minimum pay is often that it can become a standard wage. The formation of wages and salaries shall take place through free negotiations between the parties and not be determined by the State. It is a fundamental position and an attitude that we share with our Nordic neighbours on the inside of the EU. The government will follow the further process in the EU closely. Where the case is now, we do not see that the proposal for a directive will change the basis for Norwegian wage formation. Our final assessments of the substance and the relationship with the EEA Agreement can only be made once the Directive has been adopted. In a wide range of fields, cooperation and common standards in Europe are in Norway’s interest – whether in terms of the length of one metre or respect for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental human rights. That is why we must pursue an active European policy. In individual matters relating to working life, rail and energy, we do not agree with all the EU's proposals, but we share common respect for commitments entered into and for the values on which our cooperation is based. We have a solid framework for cooperation. The EEA Agreement and the other agreements we have concluded with the EU will continue to form the basis for our close cooperation with the EU. Within this framework, we will strengthen our efforts to promote Norwegian interests in the European Community.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-23.ana.ud69e424	The President will propose that the Minister of Foreign Affairs' statement on important EU and EEA matters in 2021 be discussed at a subsequent meeting in the United Kingdom. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
