ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-11.ana.ud97e177	In accordance with the Constitution, the King will give this message to the Norwegian State and Government in the run-up to the last message. The Koron apandemy has been the embodiment of Norwegian society for the past six and a half years. Now most residents in Norway are over 12 years of age vaccinated. Most people now experience normal everyday life, but social protection is increasing. The anti-infectious measures implemented last March led to the greatest increase in unemployment in the post-war period. In particular, there were many lay-offs. Many of those who were licensed under the pandemic have come back to work. The registered unemployment rate is approaching the level before the pandemic. Compared to most other countries, the economic downturn in Norway has been moderate. Over and over, infectious diseases also have lower medical outcomes than in most other countries. Together with a health service that has been able to provide good treatment throughout, it has resulted in relatively few deaths that have been related to covid-19. Although hospitals have been forced to prioritize preparedness, most of the ordinary activity has been kept going. In the last year, the Koron apandemy has also been demanding for children, elephants, and peddlers. It has been a goal to keep the regular services for children and young people open as much as possible under the pandemic. Despite infection, schools and kindergartens have been open, and we haven't had any national closures like last year. The Coronapandemy also required strict rules for entry into Norway. Since March 2020, with the help of the customs and defence authorities, the police have carried out border checks to enforce restrictions on entry and on infectious diseases. The rules have been among the most stringent in Europe and have led to a reduction in the level of infection. After winter, the rules have been gradually softened, as the population has been vaccinated. It has been seen in the course of the crisis in the face of extensive interim fiscal measures. In addition, Norway’s Bank’s interest rate is reduced to zero. It has contributed to business getting through the crisis, and to the strong growth of activity we are now experiencing. It has also been a major focus on culture and volunteering. The value creation in the Norwegian economy has increased in the last year. At the end of August, there were 2.7 pst. by the labour force registered as wholly unemployed at Nav. There are about 10,000 more people than before the pandemic. By the end of August, 140 200 jobseekers were registered, i.e. the sum of the total unemployed, the partial unemployed and the staff on action, at Nav. The pandemic has been eliminated differently, both for industries and for people. All in all, the nutrients that have been the hardest frame stand for 10 pst. of mainland GDP and around one-sixth of total employment. The activity in these industries was 20 pst. lower in July 2021 than in February 2020. The other 90 pst. of the Norwegian economy had recovered the loss already before the summer, with a growth of 2.1 pst. from February 2020 to July 2021. The Norwegian economy is in the midst of a quick pick-up, among other things. driven by private consumption growth. At the same time, the krona has remained relatively weak, particularly measured against the euro. It facilitates increased activity for the export right business when the demand re-enters. Household debt growth has increased slightly since the summer of last year, after decreasing over the last three years. The government has taken action to improve the sustainability of household liabilities. The value of State pension funds abroad has risen sharply in recent years and has now risen to nearly 12,000 billion. kr. Foreign policy has been characterised by international pandemic management, enhanced cooperation with the United States, NATO and Europe, Norway's membership of the UN Security Council and efforts to achieve resilience targets by 2030. Through the work of the Security Council, we promote Norwegian interests, respect for and compliance with international law, and beyond a regulated multilateral world order and internationally committed cooperation. In European policy, the government is working to ensure that the EEA Agreement continues to be a well-functioning framework for Norway's cooperation with the EU. Cooperation on Europe's green environment contributes to conversion and creates opportunities for Norwegian business. The conclusion of the Free Trade Agreement with the United Kingdom had much to say for Norwegian value creation and jobs. In April, the government signed an additional defence cooperation agreement with the United States to strengthen cooperation in the framework of NATO. The government has submitted a new long-term plan for the defence sector. In the long-term plan adopted, the government has prioritised a further strengthening of its defence and has taken a number of measures to strengthen its defence capabilities. After 20 years of military engagement in Afghanistan, the defence personnel have returned to Norway and the military mission has ended. Over time, the efforts of the defence in Afghanistan have attracted many praises from allies and partners, and this has been reinforced following the demanding evacuation from Kabul recently. The government has placed great emphasis on preparedness work over the ten years since the terror of 22 July 2011 and all the recommendations of the Gjørv Commission have been followed up. The implementation of police reform has strengthened the quality of police work and provided more unifying services. The target of two policemen per 1,000 inhabitants has been reached. National response time requirements in all three urban categories were reached in 2020, for the first time since measurements started in 2015. In November last year, the National Police Emergency Centre opened. In order to strengthen the capacity to prevent and manage terrorism, the government has developed a counter-terrorist strategy. For many jobseekers, skills enhancement is necessary to get to work. With a new legislation on day-to-day pay from 1 October this year, it will be easier to combine day-to-day pay with education and training. It has been specifically designed to enable more people to complete vocational and vocational training. The government's strategy against crime at work was updated in February. On a proposal from the government, the Stortinget has made changes to the law to abolish the obligation to withdraw the position at a lower age than the general age limit. Giving older workers a chance to continue their work if they want to, is good for each individual as well as for society. In June, the government presented Report. St. 32 for 2020-2021; None outside – a comprehensive policy to include more people in working and social life. The government brings down a employment selection in 2018. The selection has delivered two reports, with proposals for measures to increase income protection and increase employment. The government is evaluating proposals from the selection in the light of the hearing. Last fall, the schools used the new curricula developed through the innovation. The education promise was introduced in response to the pandemic and continued in 2021. This means a significant commitment to skills and increasing capacity in continuing training. There has also been a historic growth in the number of academic colleges, universities and universities. New law of integration was introduced from 1 January this year. The law emphasizes the differentiation of the introduction program for each individual. Tolkelova was brought before and attached by the Stortinge in spring. The law makes it clear what responsibility public bodies have when it comes to using interpreters. The government has put forward an equal-world reform to make everyday life easier for children who need complex services and their families. As of 1 September, children’s pension for children under six years of age was increased by NOK 3,600 per year. Thus, children's social security has increased by SEK 8 200 since 2018 for this age group. The birth grant has been substantially raised in the last few years. The performance has increased from just over NOK 35000 in 2013 to over NOK 90000 in 2021. On a proposal from the government, the Stortinget adopted in June a new Children’s Protection Act to strengthen legal certainty for children and parents. The government has reduced the choice of child protection to assess how child protection can ensure better quality and legal certainty in the most serious and complex cases. It is important that all countries increase their climate ambitions, so that the 1.5-degree target is within range. Norway submitted an enhanced 2030 target to the United Nations already in 2020 to reduce emissions by at least 50 and up to 55 pst. In 2050, emissions shall be reduced by 90-95 pst. Painting is now legal. In January, the government submitted a communication to the Stortinget with a climate plan for 2021–2030. It shows how Norway will meet the 2030 climate change target while creating green growth. In June, the government presented a big message on long-term value creation from Norwegian energy resources. New industries, such as hydrogen and sea wind, the strengthening of the electricity grid and a forward-looking low-emission oil and gas industry, shall contribute to further value creation. The message also includes a strategy for smart and efficient electrification of Norway and a hydrogen road map. Last year the Storting joined Langskip, the Norwegian CO 2 capture and storage project. Construction has started, and there is international interest in using the Norwegian CO 2 stock. The tragic mercury crisis in Gjerdrum just before the new year claimed ten lives and caused great material damage. Resources have been deleted for backup and cleanup after the event. A government-designated selection examines the causes of mercury cleavage and assesses prevention of mercury cleavage across the country. In November 2020, the government presented a major communication presenting to the government its strategy for the safe decommissioning of Norwegian nuclear installations and the management of national radioactive waste. The government has provided a major communication on maritime industry with a particular focus on promoting climate-friendly and environmentally friendly shipping, the digitisation of the maritime sector and Norwegian maritime competence. The government has submitted a communication to the Stortingen on the sustainability targets, with an action plan showing how the whole society should be committed to achieving its goals by 2030. The Stortinget treats the district notification autumn 2020. Three rural policy strategies will contribute to growth, equivalent services, sustainable development and attractive rural and labour regions throughout the country. The Storing Communication on our Common Digital Grounds provides guidance for the development of mobile, broadband and Internet services, which are the foundation for digitisation in all sectors. Activities in road and rail construction and maintenance are still high, and work on rail reform is continuing. Competition for operation and maintenance of the rail network started in 2021. The government's proposal for a new law on collective copyright management was made by the Stortinget and entered into force this year. Laws must ensure effective, defence-related and open administration. The year's agricultural settlement is still broken because the agricultural organisations would not go into negotiations. So the government went to Stortinget with a proposal based on the offer from the state. Following a marked decline in 2020 due to lower oil and gas prices, the current balance sheet surplus has increased so far this year. In the first six months, the surplus was 185 billion. kr. That's an increase of 140 billion. kr from the same period last year. The current balance sheet surplus has not been higher in the first half of 2014. The average wage growth from 2019 to 2020 was 3.1 pst. Wages and salaries are higher than consumption prices, and real post-tax earnings are 1.8 pst. last year. In the first six months of this year, wages were 2.5 pst. higher than in the same period last year. During the same period, consumer prices rose by 2.9 pst. The petroleum sector has become less dominant in the Norwegian economy since the fall in oil prices in 2014. It has to be done, among other things. are seen in the context of developments in oil and gas prices. The country’s net cash flow from the petroleum industry last year was 107 billion. kr. One of the objectives of the IA agreement is to reduce sick leave by 10 pst. from 2018. Sick leave in 2020 was higher than sick absence in 2018, even when corrected for corona-related absences. The seasonally adjusted absence in the first half of 2021 was at the same level as in 2020. At the end of the second quarter of 2021, about 5.4 million people were offered in Norway. It's an increase of 10,800 from the end of 2020. About 80 pst. of the population increase in the first half of 2021 came from birth surplus, while about 20 pst. come from net immigration. In 2020, the population increased by about 23 800 people, with about equal contributions from net immigration and birth surpluses. There were about 53 000 children born in 2020, about 1500 fewer than in 2019. The Covid-19 pandemic has shown how closely the world is linked, and has underlined the value of multilateral cooperation in the face of global challenges. Close cooperation with Nordic and other neighbouring European countries, and the EU, have been decisive for Norway in meeting with the pandemic. We've got a lot left for the trust and the good cooperation we've invested in and built over time. Norway took on a leading role in ensuring fair global access to covid-19 vaccines, drugs and tests. Since September 2020, Norway, together with South Africa, is hosting the International Coalition for the Control of the Coronapandemic, Access to Covid-19 Tools Accelerator, ACTA. ACTA has contributed to the development of vaccine candidates and rapid testers at a rate never before seen. The vaccine pillar Covax is planning to deliver more than 1.8 billion vaccine doses before early 2022. Covid-19 is not just a global health crisis. It's an economic and social crisis that has brought millions of people into hunger and poverty. Human rights, including: the rights of girls and women have come under pressure. Norway continues to put health, education, job creation, human rights, good governance, smoldering and equality at the centre of our international efforts for post-pandemic reconstruction. Collect Norwegian support for global covid suppression — including efforts to counter socio-economic consequences of the pandemic — is around 12 billion. kr. The pandemic has led to a deterioration in the global humanitarian situation. According to the UN, more than 235 million people need humanitarian aid and protection in 2021, an increase of 40 pst. from 2020 onwards. So the government has given a record high humanitarian support of 6.3 billion. NOK 2021. Poverty and poorer schooling make children more vulnerable to violence and violence. The incidence of child labour is increasing. The government continues its leadership role in education in developing countries, and we continue to give priority to the efforts of particularly vulnerable groups. Norway has increased support for agriculture, food security and food from the sea. During the United Nations Summit on Food Systems in September, Norway contributed to a stronger commitment to achieving resilience target 2, to the reduction of sulphur. Governments are stepping up support for climate adaptation with particular emphasis on preventing climate-related disasters and ensuring food supply in vulnerable countries. In July 2021, the government appointed 10 billion. kr over five years to a new fund to invest in renewable energy in developing countries, with the aim of contributing to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions through phase-out of coal. The Fund shall also contribute to the mobilisation of commercial capital. The High Level Panel for a Resilient Marine Economy, led by the Prime Minister and with the participation of 14 other Heads of State or Government, presented an Action Plan for Resilient Marine Management globally in December 2020. From this year, Norway shall participate in the European Defence Fund, which shall promote defence research and Capability Development. Through the EEA funds, Norway contributes to social and economic cohesion in the EU and to promoting the rule of law, human rights and democratic values. This is important at a time when we are experiencing increasing pressure against both the rule of law and the international legal order – including in Europe. The pandemic increases the gap for conflict and creates difficulties for parties who are trying to create peace. Norway has given priority to continuing our efforts in a series of peace and reconciliation processes. The global disarmament and non-proliferation regime for weapons of mass destruction is under pressure. Norway is working towards the functioning of the international disarmament mechanisms. In the last year, Norway has the seat of the board of both the International Atomic Energy Agency, the IAEA, and the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, the OPCW. The Nordic region is Norway's most important strategic responsibility. This was clearly underlined by the government in its northern division message. Through the two-year Presidency of the Barents Council, Norway has promoted cooperation and trust across borders. Together with efforts to strengthen cooperation in the Arctic Council, this is important in order to ensure further stability and peaceful development in the North. The Government has continued bilateral cooperation with Russia. Norway has signed an additional protocol to an agreement with Russia to help reduce the risk of misunderstandings and accidents at sea and in the air. Although much of the cooperation works well, the relationship between the West and Russia is increasingly marked by the strenuous security policy situation in Europe and a significant gap in value and interest. NATO is the cornerstone of Norwegian security policy. At the NATO Summit in June 2021 several measures were adopted to strengthen the political dimension of NATO through NATO 2030. Norway has given substance to NATO's operations, missiles and standing forces, and has put military forces to work in Iraq, in the Baltic region, in UN operations in the Middle East and in Africa. We also support countries in the Balkans and the Black Sea with capacity building. Russia will continue to be a dimensional factor for Norwegian security and defence policy, while keeping pace with developments in China. In addition, new and cutting-edge technologies, challenges in the digital domain and outer space are key issues. The reinforcement of the Army has been continued through the construction of Finnmark Land Defense. The establishment of a hunting company at the border guard in South Varanger is continuing, and full operational capacity is expected in 2022. The mechanization of Brigade Nord is continuing. The army has also been given a new artillery. Air defence is being substantially renewed with many new material systems. The redistribution of the Defense Bell 412 helicopters between Bardufoss and Rygge, in line with the Storting's decision on shared helicopter resolution, is completed in 2021. On 8 July of this year, Norway, in strategic cooperation with Germany, signed contracts for new submarines and target missiles. Resuming maintenance work and improving access to materials and spare parts in the Defence Sector are continuously being pursued, and several departments have been given increased staffing. The cyberdefense strengthens whether or not to protect ICT in the Defense. Cooperation between the Police Security Service and the Intelligence Service has been reinforced by the establishment of the Joint Intelligence and Counter-Terrorist Centres. The government has provided a big message with an up-to-date national defence industry strategy. The pandemic has the last year characterized the defense as well. Several exercises have been reduced or cancelled during this winter exercise Joint Viking 2021. However, the defence has maintained its operational capability and has resolved its main mission. Together with allies, the defense of the Sirah has a credible deterrence and ability to defend Norway, even under the pandemic. Upon request, the defense has supported civil regimes with the management of the pandemic, including. through the assistance of the Home Office to the police in the context of enhanced border control. The government follows up the work of recognising and providing veterans from international operations. The government has proposed several legislative and regulatory changes to strengthen the protection of veterans from international operations. The Ministry of Defence has set up a forum for scientific research to identify priority research areas in the field by the end of 2021. The Korona Commission will present its first report in April of this year, giving a thorough review of the management of the pandemic. The report has been on a public hearing, and over 520 audio recordings have come in. The report from the Commission and the follow-up is important for us to learn from the pandemic and use it to strengthen preparedness further. The number of asylum seekers to Norway is still low. This is linked to actions at the EU's external border, European cooperation with third countries and travel restrictions related to covid-19. In order to invite to debate further work on child, youth and recriminal crime, the government presented a major communication on the theme in June 2021. In June 2021, the government launched a major communication on criminal services proposing more measures to adapt criminal services and the implementation of penalties to new social conditions. The government has presented an action plan against the selected in close relation, with its own section on violence and violence in the Sami region. In addition, the government has presented a strategy against Internet-related child abuse. There are funds for technical equipment and for judicial year-olds. Correspondingly, the capacity of the prosecution authority is strengthened. Increased capacity is needed to deal with more serious criminal cases more quickly. New court structure in the first instance came into force in the spring of 2021. The new structure facilitates increasing the efficiency and flexibility of courts. On 16 October 2020, the Government presented Report. Article 5 for 2020-2021, Social security in an uncertain world. It's the second social security message under the government of Solberg. In this message, you will find actions within several areas, while highlighting today's challenge images, including: increasing globalisation, digitisation, climate change and changes in the security policy image, making prevention more important in the field of social security. An important contribution to our preventive work is the implementation of security laws. All departments have identified basic national functions within their sector. This is a continuous process that should enable us to follow societal developments, including in the area of preventive national security. Extensive measures have been taken to compensate people who have lost their jobs and income in meeting the coronary apathy. Changes in the permitment scheme caused employers to reduce their wage costs without having to cancel. Employees who are on leave were assured of income by receiving a daily allowance. The government has also seen major temporary changes in the legislation on sickness benefits, care allowances and redundancy payments. The special rules are designed to make it easier for people to comply with quarantine obligations. They have deducted the cost of employers, and they have secured income for employees, self-employed and freelancers for lost income as a result of corona-related absences. It is important to prevent measures from being passive when the activity can be absorbed, which can reinforce and prolong the negative consequences of the pandemic. At the same time, it must be taken into account that there is uncertainty about the pace of reopening our society. It has been a priority task for the Labour Inspectorate to follow up on the activities of control of infectious diseases in workplaces and the liquidation of quarantine. In 2021, the State of Labour and Welfare, Nav, has also temporarily strengthened the operating cycle, with 866 million. kr. The strengths include: to improve the processing times, to follow up job seekers, to ensure good accessibility at the Nav Contact Centre and to ensure the timely recovery of advances in daily cash. The crisis has a special impact on those with little education and weak employment. In addition, comprehensive interventions have been implemented for young people, the long-term unemployed and other vulnerable groups. The inclusion period has been strengthened in 2021. The Norwegian regulation regime for the health, environment and safety of petroleum industries operates mainly well and should be passed on. Conversions and changes in the petroleum industry may affect the level of risk. Continued good cooperation between the parties, knowledge development and strong supervision are still a prerequisite for good development. The government's ambition that Norwegian petroleum industry should be world-leading on HMS is firm. A selection of partners has assessed challenges in the workplace in the future and the need for clearer regulation of labour law. The committee delivered its opinion on 23 June. The distribution has been sent to the audience on 1 November. In addition to lending funds to the municipal sector to counter the consequences of the pandemic and the measures to prevent infection, the government has allowed funds for digitisation and measures to help increase social and professional learning. There are also funds for the summer school for elephants in the base school. The government has put forward a new strategy for quality work in kindergartens by 2030. The strategy points out the ambitions of the government for the kindergarten sector in the years to 2030. In addition, the government has introduced a new chapter in the Kinderhagelova with requirements on how to ensure that children have a safe and well psychosocial kindergarten environment. The government has sent to hear a proposal for a change in the Kinderhagelova on accounting separation requirements for private kindergartens that run multiple kindergartens in the same enterprise or group, in order to ensure a good supervision and openness of the economy of the private kindergartens. The government's investment in SFO supports the quality and content of supply through a new national framework plan for SFO, and reduces parental payments for families with low income. The work against bullying is a high priority area for government. In March, the government and 14 organizations signed a new partnership agreement against bullying. As a follow-up to the Storing Communication Focused on — early intervention, changes in welfare services legislation have been implemented to strengthen the follow-up of the outsourced children and young people and their families through more cooperation between welfare services. Government's commitment to skills development for kindergarten teachers and schools continues. The government has appointed a public selection to evaluate and propose different models of continuing education. The government has launched a new action plan for digitisation in initial training to make schools better use of the opportunities offered by digital resources. The Training Act regulates the school day to over 850,000 children, young people and adults and the working day to over 100,000 teachers and others working in the school. In the light of NOU 2019: 23 proposals for new training permits have been submitted to the public. The government has adopted national rules on the free choice of schools for further education, which means that the county councils must either have free choice of schools in the whole state or free choice of schools within the area of entry. The Stortinget has with wide plural attachments Meld. St. 21 for 2020-2021, Completion reform. With the completion reform, the government will make it possible for more people to complete and pass. In recent years, there has been a historical growth in the number of new places of study in higher vocational education. The government announced a new strategy for the disciplines before the summer to contribute to improving quality. The survey has undertaken to clarify the requirements for the knowledge base of the vocational education system and to remove the limitation of the minimum length of vocational education. In order to contribute to improving the quality of higher education, the government has provided three new key messages on relatively increasing international student mobility, increasing labour relevance and governance of state universities and universities. Before the summer, the government introduced a strategy to increase the scope of high-quality, decentralised and flexible education. The ambition is that education is available to everyone, regardless of where they live, and the situation in which they live. The government has appointed a selection to assess the legislation on admission to higher education and has presented a strategy for academic recruitment and career paths. Norway will participate in the EU Research and Innovation Programme, Horizon Europe, and the EU Education, Training, Youth and Sport Programme, Erasmus+, between 2021 and 2027, and has provided strategies for Norwegian participation. The government has also presented a strategy for cooperation with Brazil, Canada, India, Japan, China, Russia, South Africa, South Korea and the United States on research and higher education in the period 2021–2027. The Government established the Directorate of Higher Education and Competence, HKD, on 1 July 2021. The Directorate is the result of the merger of Diku, Competence Norway, Universal and parts of Unit and NSD. It will also get tasks from NOKUT. The new veterinary building on Ås was completed in 2021. The size has undergone changes in university and højskulelova. These changes include: the purpose and scope of the law, recognition of education and real competence, admission, examination and censorship, cheating, student representation, learning environment, police attestation, additions and the management and guidance of institutions. On 1 July 2021, the government sent a call for changes in university and højskulelova as well. the right of students to leave, and which gives insight into the learning environment and the organisation of institutions towards students with disabilities or other specific needs. The government has set up its own expert group to look at the academic freedom of expression in Norway. Koronakrisa led to a difficult labour market for many, including students. The government has therefore in two rounds given students who have lost part-time income in addition to studying, the possibility to search for an additional loan with a scholarship share in the Loan Fund. In addition, the government provided funding for student relations, colleges, colleges and universities for a variety of low-level social services for students, better mental health provision and money to pay students to pursue the professional and social follow-up of students. People with a migrant background have been overrepresented among those with infected and covid-19-related infections throughout the pandemic. The government has implemented a number of measures aimed at the immigrant population, among others. to improve the quality of information. Two quick-working expert groups have been set up, and the recommendations are largely followed up or started. Through three integration packages, the government has strengthened the provision of training for refugees and other immigrants who have recently come to the country. On 9 June 2021, the government launched a strategy for everyday integration to help people with a migrant background become more involved in civil society and to lift and support the efforts of civil society for integration. Preventing negative social control and honor-related power is a high priority of the government. There is a need both to further develop and strengthen efforts in the field, and on 15 June 2021 a new action plan, freedom from negative social control and honour-related violence was introduced. [[2021-2024]] The morbidity budget was specially strengthened in 2021 to compensate for the additional costs of preparedness and infection protection resulting from the pandemic. The exceptional operating situation in 2021 has led to desired developments in some areas. An example of this is the increase in video and phone consultations. The government has worked to ensure that the population has access to medicinal products under covid-19. Agreements have been concluded and comprehensive emergency stocks of critical medicinal products have been built. You will now be asked how best to align your emergency storage. A national stock of infectious equipment has been built up and the government will propose a permanent facility for this stock as well. The Covid-19 pandemic has shown that we are dependent on international cooperation, among others. for access to medicinal products. The government is working for Norwegian participation in strong EU health preparedness cooperation to be better equipped to meet current and future health crises. The pandemic's been squandered. Many of those who were vulnerable before the pandemic have become the hardest frame. In March 2021, the government set up an expert group that looked at the consequences of the pandemic for mental health, quality of life and drug use. The government has subsequently proposed concrete measures for each effort should be strengthened. Through the pandemic, the government has taken a number of measures to reduce the negative impact of infectious diseases on the health and quality of life of the population. On 10 November 2020, the government presented an action package of 158 million. kr for the 2021 budget, directed towards vulnerable groups and people who are the victims of loneliness and isolation. On 29 January, another action package was presented for children and young people and students, with measures of 2.2 billion. kr. The revised national budget for 2021 allowed an additional 750 million. to strengthen mental health and drug services. After a significant increase in infection and hospitalisation from the autumn of 2020, there was a lower spread of the coronary virus. The re-opening of society has been controlled and in line with the government's re-opening plan, which was put forward on 7 April. In reopening, children and young people are given priority first, then jobs and businesses. Increasing vaccination rates, control of import infection and management of outbreaks of infection through TISK work in municipalities have been important elements of the plan. The significant increase in infection in the summer has not resulted in a corresponding increase in admissions and deaths, which is due to vaccination. Everyone over 16 years of age has now received a vaccine supply. Vaccination of young people aged 12 to 18 has now come so far that there is little risk of the pandemic coming out of control and threatening health services capacity. On Saturday, September 25, Norway moved on to a normal day of spare time. At that time, all restrictions domestically, with the exception of the requirement to go into isolation if one is ill, were removed. Local corona outbreaks shall continue to be manageable in close cooperation with the Institute for Public Health. Preparedness in municipalities, counties and health businesses will still be high. As of 31 August 2021, a total of 822 covid-19-associated deaths have been recorded. Participation in EU vaccine procurement cooperation has secure access to coronary vaccines. Municipalities have implemented vaccination of the population through the Corona vaccination programme. A Korona certificate has been established for use in Norway to facilitate the possibility of safe cross-border movement. The accounting will follow up the Report. St. 15 for 2017-2018, Life throughout life – a quality reform for the elderly. The implementation of this message depends on a number of new strategies and plans currently in force between 2020 and 2021. The government has presented a new plan for competence, recruitment and professional development in the municipal health and care services and the county dentistry service, Competencelift 2025. The government has presented Demenplan 2025 to help create a more dementia-friendly society and improve service provision for people with dementia and their relatives. In December 2020, the government presented a comprehensive strategy and action plan. It is important that the relatives get it supported and downloaded, so that they can complete education, get a job and live a good life. The government has provided a national strategy for good nutrition and nutrition for the elderly in hospitals and for those receiving home care. The strategy shall contribute to the creation of good meal experiences and to the reduction of malnutrition and malnutrition in the elderly. Furthermore, the government has launched security standards in hospitals, a leadership tool for systematic work on improving quality and security. The government has put forward a national alcohol strategy for 2021–2025, in which the main lines of the alcohol policy are continued, and where measures are proposed to reduce harmful alcohol consumption. The government has submitted proposals for a drug reform, including changes to the drug strategy. criminal law and health and care laws. Responses to people being taken for use and possession of drugs for their own use should be changed from punishment to help, treatment and follow-up. The suggestion could not be submitted with multiple entries in Stortinget. In cooperation with KS and a selection of municipalities, the government has started to prepare the implementation of a common municipal journal for municipalities outside the Central Norway health region. The aim is safer and better health and care services and a simpler working day for health care providers. The government has strengthened its work on national eHealth solutions, such as Core Journal, Health Norway.com, e-Recipe and Basic Data. In addition, the government has started work on establishing a national service for the sharing of laboratory and radiology responses, and has started work on how we will continue to work to strengthen digital interaction. The government has sent a hearing proposal for legislative and regulatory changes to make available and pay for national eHealth solutions. The proposal facilitates digitisation in the health and care sector and improves interaction. The Government will make health data more easily available for research and analysis and will start building the Health Analysis Platform. Furthermore, the government has agreed that health data services, which are the first line service for access to health data, should be located on Tynset. In January, the government launched the first National Clinical Study Action Plan. The goal of doubling the number of clinical studies by 2025 will allow many more patients to participate in clinical studies. The vision is that clinical research should be an integral part of patients’ treatment provision. The government follows the timetable for the escalation of children’s and young people’s mental health for 2019–2024. In 2021, it's worth 170 million. for actions in the plan. The government has provided a major communication on the principle of priority in the health and care services, Report. St. 38 for 2020-2021; Benefit, resource and seriousness — priority in healthcare. The message is a follow-up to NOU 2018: 16, the most important first, from the Blankholm selection. In the various action packages, the government has always assessed the need for and proposed compensatory measures for children and young people. For 2021, the national incentive scheme to include children and young people has increased by over 100 million. kr. The increase shall contribute to the improvement of holiday and leisure provision for children and young people under the pandemic. Efforts against violence and abuse have been reinforced. Collecting bets on the escalating plan against election and violation during the planning period is now in excess of 1.1 billion. kr. Efforts against violence and abuse increased in 2021. For 2021, the national incentive scheme to include children and young people has increased by over 100 million. kr. The increase shall contribute to the improvement of holiday and leisure provision for children and young people under the pandemic. Autumn 2020 presented the government strategy Equal opportunities in growth – government cooperation strategy for children and young people in low-income families [[2020-2023]] In the autumn of 2021, the government presented Direct online – national strategy for secure digital growth. The strategy includes, inter alia: The role of children and young people in the work, how parents and adults working with children should be given better skills and how to ensure the protection of children and young people. On a proposal from the government, the Stortinget has made changes to the law on the right of parents to postpone parental leave until the child reaches the age of three. This should make the parental pension scheme simpler and more appropriate to the needs of family members. The majority have accepted proposals from the government on changes in marriage law. The proposal implies that marriages entered into under foreign law should not, as a general rule, be recognised if one or both parties were under the age of 18 when they were married. The purpose is to protect children who come to Norway from being considered married here. On a proposal from the government, the Stortinget adopted openheitslova in June. The law shall promote respect for fundamental human rights and decent working conditions in the production of goods and the provision of services. Law is an important tool in the fight against trafficking in human beings. In June, on a proposal from the government, the Storting adopted changes to the marketing laws which imply that advertisers in both images and live productions are obliged to label advertising where the body shape, size or skin has changed by retouching or other manipulation. In June, the Government presented a proposal to legislate that the Child Welfare Service should assess the need for multi-disciplinary health monitoring of children to be moved out of the home. Health monitoring should help to improve care, assistance and follow-up for children and young people leaving the home. Increased permits for church buildings have given municipalities important support to their efforts to ensure the construction of buildings against fires and fires. On a proposal from the government, the Stortinget passed a new law on the Information Society Fund in June. The laws lay the legal basis for sharing the values of the fund between the state and the Norwegian Church. The report for 2019 from the International Natural Panel documents extensive negative changes in the terrestrial and marine environment. The natural panel says that radical changes are needed to reverse the negative development. The government implements several measures to safeguard endangered nature and enhances the protection of forests, seas and other valuable nature by nature. Since October 2020, the protected 74 forest areas. Over 5 pst. of all forest in Norway is now protected. In 2021, the government presented the Natural Strategy for Wetlands, which is a holistic strategy across sectors for the sustainable use of wetlands. The government has also presented a comprehensive action plan for a clean and rich Oslo soil with an active outdoor life, which sets out its main priorities for the Oslo soil towards 2026, and a plan of action for wild pollinating insects, which launches 24 measures to ensure the viability of wild pollinating insects by 2028. In addition, the government has agreed to a follow-up plan for endangered nature, which sets out measures and instruments to improve the status of 23 species and 12 natural habitat types. The government has presented a comprehensive and thorough national strategy for the circular economy. The strategy should contribute to both increased productivity, increased value creation and employment for Norwegian business. The government will give priority to the protection of key marine nature areas and in April presented a communication to the Stortinget with a holistic national plan for this. In June, Van Mijenfjorden was protected from ice-dependent species at Svalbard. In addition, the government is pursuing new national objectives for the cultural environment field, including: to initiate work on new conservation strategies and proposals for new cultural environment legislation. The United States, the United Kingdom and Norway have had a number of the largest companies in the world paying forest land to reduce deforestation. As developments have gone wrong in Brazil, Indonesia has greatly reduced deforestation in the last four years. In 2020, the Ministry of Oil and Energy accepted development plans for three new oil and gas projects. By August 2021, the department had taken over three development plans. During the 2020 round of the allocation of predefined areas 61 extraction rights were allocated to 30 oil companies. In the 25th concession round, four extraction licences were granted to seven oil companies. Petroleum investment was about 155 billion. in 2020 and are expected to fall in 2021 and the next few years. In order to maintain the medium-term level of activity, it is necessary to make new findings and to identify several measures to increase extraction in existing fields. The total production in 2020 was around 3.9 million barrels of oil equivalent per day, which was a weak increase compared to the previous year. It is estimated that the total production is increasing towards 2024. Norway decks between 20 and 25 pst. of the EU’s gas consumption and inputs to the transition to a renewable low-emission society in Europe. There are 91 fields in production, and the additional 16 projects are under construction over the entire base. Oil and gas industries will continue to play an important role in the Norwegian economy in the overarching future and will make a significant contribution to the future financing of the Norwegian welfare society. The total petroleum income of the country is estimated to be approximately 155 billion. NOK 2021, corresponding to approximately 13,5 pst. of the total income of the country. The supply industry for the petroleum sector is Norway's second largest industry, after oil and gas sales, and creates a huge number of jobs and local food development in all countries of the country. About 30 pst. the turnover of the supplier industry comes from international markets. The Covid-19 pandemic and the simultaneous fall in oil prices have hit the international supplier industry hard. In order to avoid the suspension of new expansion projects on the Norwegian base by the company, with the associated market failures for the supplier industry, the Stortinget adopted temporary changes in the petroleum tax. There has not yet been a stop in the planning of new expansions and projects on a Norwegian base. These projects provide potential for the supply industry. The average electricity price for 2020 was 9.7 ø/kWh. This is over 28 cents lower than in 2019. We have to go back to the year 2000 to find an annual price of the same level. So far in 2021, the average power price has been 48 centimeters/kWh per week 37, which mainly comes from dry weather and rising prices of gas, coal and CO 2 allowances. In 2020, power generation reached 154.2 TWh. This is a new production record and about 10 TWh above average over the last five years. Power consumption decreased by 0.8 TWh from 2019 and again by 133.7 TWh. Norway had a record high net exports of 20,5 TWh in 2020. So far this year, Norway has had a net export of 10.8 TWh per week 34. A new power link between Norway and Germany was put into operation in December 2020. The connection between Norway and the United Kingdom was also completed in the spring, and it is planned to be operational in the autumn of 2021. The exchange of power with other countries makes it possible to draw mutual benefit from differences in natural resources, production systems and consumption patterns. The government's goal is for Norway to be a leading port. Norwegian fishing and aquaculture industries are a profitable, viable and important industry for Norway, producing food that is needed in the world. The maritime policy of the government should help to trigger the potential of the largest possible pool of value creation in existing marine industries, within resilient frameworks. The government will also facilitate the development and growth of new marine nutrients. As part of the efficient management of our marine resources, a whole new and smarter resource control based on the use of new technologies is being implemented. Fisheries agreements with other coastal states are a very important part of long-term sustainable management of fish stocks, and there will be continuous work to improve them. As of 1 July 2021, export finance schemes will be managed by Export Finance Norway, Eksfin, following the merger of GIEK and Export Credit Norway. The government is working together with industry to look at opportunities to increase exports from Norway. The government has taken initiatives to cooperate on strategic export efforts through the Export Strategy Council. In the state budget for 2021, it's worth 75 million. kr for strategic export efforts through the Export Strategy Council, cf. revised national budget 2021. The government prioritises the EU programme high and has proposed that Norway participate in a series of programmes of relevance to Norwegian business during the next programming period, ranging from 2021 to 2027. The green shift is very important for Norwegian business and is therefore an important dimension in the management of state ownership in companies. The country’s owner report for 2020, published in June 2021, included information on greenhouse gas emissions at company level for the first time. Furthermore, «sustainable value creation – the world against net zero in 2050» was the theme of the Ownership Conference. Since Brexit in 2016, Norwegian citizens and Norwegian business have been in a state of emergency. In June 2021, Norway came to an end with the negotiations on a comprehensive free trade agreement with the United Kingdom. The Free Trade Agreement ensures that Norwegian enterprises have at least as good access to the UK market as EU countries. The agreement ensures that Norway and Norwegian industry continue to have the potential to maintain and compete for market shares in one of our main export markets. Governments are busy improving the use of resources in society and public regulation to strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian business. Since 2018, simplification measures have been implemented that provide an estimated profit for business of about 11 billion. kr annually. Government's target of 10 billion. Accordingly, kr is overfilled. The Government has concluded a five-year agreement with the Statistical Central Bureau, the SSB, which requires the SSB to produce new and improved border-trade statistics. The government has taken a number of measures to ensure that Norwegian business continues to invest in research, innovation and green conversion, despite the economic downturn following the virus outbreak. Agents have changed quickly to help businesses. Enterprises in the travel, catering and event industries are among those who have experienced the greatest decline in their activity during the pandemic. Many candidates have been permitted as a result of travel restrictions, canceled arrangements and closed nightlife. The incentive scheme for business development in the tourism, event and catering industries, the conversion scheme, shall provide access to liquidity so that they can implement the conversion project in order to adapt to vector measures and market changes resulting from the coronary apathy. Since March 2020, Stortinget has raised a total of 1.6 billion. kr to the order. All the funds are lit out. The framework for the scheme was 250 million in 2020. kr. In 2021, the total frame is 1.35 billion. kr. Municipalities have made a very decisive effort to deal with the coronary apathy. They have ensured the protection of the population through infection prevention and vaccination, while at the same time providing municipal services under new and demanding circumstances. In 2020, the municipal sector received about 18 billion. NOK in extra licenses, the reason for the coronary apnea, of which 12 were billion. kr compensation for additional and minor expenses. The State and the KS agree that the municipal sector is well compensated for the economic impact of the pandemic in 2020. In 2021, this is more than 23 billion. extra kr to the municipal sector as a result of the pandemic. In order to remedy the situation of many activities which are a particularly hard framework of local or national measures for the protection of infectious diseases, the Stortinget has raised a total of 3.05 billion. kr via the municipalities. These are funds that come in addition to national compensation schemes. Local authorities have a lot of room for action in their budgets and work to get the funds out quickly to local businesses. The ordinary municipal economy was also strengthened in 2021. In the RNB, the growth in the free income of the local government sector in 2021 was estimated at 5.9 billion. kr. The municipalities are the most important planning authority and should be a driver of social development. Societal and spatial planning according to the Planning and Building Act is one of the keys to sustainable development in the whole country and for Norway to reach the resilience target by 2030. The government emphasises that social security and climate change adaptation are a recurring theme from planning to development. Co-ordination of land and transport planning and planning for climate-friendly urban and urban development across the country is an effective means of combating climate change. The government continues to prioritise digitisation of the geographical knowledge base and planning and construction processes. The government has also contributed to simplifying and clarifying the planning and construction process legislation in order to improve the efficiency of building processes, infrastructure and industry. The work on building stage 1 of the new government quarter has been started. This includes, inter alia: Rehabilitation of the H block and the new builds A and D. The government has put forward a new national social housing strategy for 2021 to 2024; everyone needs a safe home. The strategy reinforces the efforts of those who are unable to cope with the housing market. An expert group reviews the support schemes. The government is busy getting everyone actively involved in the democratic decision-making processes. Following the adoption of a new chapter on consultation in the Commonwealth in June, the government has begun to implement the new rules. A separate guide has been developed for municipalities on how to conduct consultations with Sámi interests. In January, the government presented an updated and renewed action plan against antisemitism, and it continues to follow up on the measures in the plan. The Digital All Life Strategy focuses on how Norway should counteract digital outreach. All citizens should be able to master digital tools so that they can easily access public services and services they are entitled to. The Storting message Data as a resource underlines the importance of the data economy for further economic growth and increases employment in Norway. A better use of data is important if Norway is to succeed in the transition to a more resilient society and a greener economy. An updated data centre strategy has several new measures to help Norway be an attractive country to invest in data centres and other data-based businesses. There is a separate proposition about changes in the echo promise that introduces an obligation to store IP addresses. This provides the police with an important tool to investigate serious crime. In June, the European Council examined the National Transport Plan Communication 2022-2033. The plan shall contribute to an efficient, environmentally friendly and safe transport system throughout the country. In order to improve the use of Community funds, emphasis is placed on optimising resource use and introducing portfolio management across the sector. The government will base the zero vision on a transport system where no one is killed or badly injured. Between 2010 and 2020, we had Europe’s largest reduction in the number of road fatalities, with 55 pst. With 93 traffic fatalities in 2020, we came for the first time in modern times under 100 road traffic fatalities, which is the lowest number since World War II. The increase in the number of hard damage to about 10 pst. nevertheless demonstrates the need to strengthen efforts in road safety. Several road installations have been opened for traffic. Articulation project rv. 13 Vik-Vangsnes was officially opened in January 2021, while new E6 in Soknedal in Trøndelag was officially opened in October 2020. In June 2021 E18 opened Varoddbrua in Agder. New Vegar AS has expanded the Brumunddal–Moelv section, which opens in the autumn of 2020. Many people use vacation every day. Business is also dependent on a good ferry service. There are funds opened, so that the rates for national and county road ferries can be reduced by 25 pst. in the second half of 2021. The toll load has been reduced, including: through the closure of toll stations, the attribution scheme for reduced rates outside the urban areas and the increase of government shares in projects. For the four largest urban areas, the 50 pst state funding scheme. too large collective project passed on. In addition, for these cities in 2021, there are approximately 925 million. kr to extra State supplement from 50 to 66 pst. too large collective project. Furthermore, the government is working for a coordinated urban land and transport policy, and the further development of the zero growth target says that in urban areas, greenhouse gas emissions, queues, air pollution and noise are to be reduced through efficient land use and that the growth of passenger transport is covered by collective provision, bicycles and corridors. By 2020, the Oslo area was also the subject of urban capital elections, so that all four major urban areas now have urban growth agreements. The government has strengthened the regulation of the railway so as to facilitate the proper functioning of rail markets. Implementation of the fourth rail package of the EU provides a framework for further deployment of the rail system within the EEA. In order to facilitate open and fair competition for the maintenance of the railway, Track drift AS is separated from Bane NOR SF and the ownership transferred to the State at the Ministry of Transport. The government has decided to transfer the Ringeriksbanen and E16 Highcast-Honey Foss joint project to New Vegar AS. The coastal works have been reorganised since 1 January 2021 and are now organised according to functions with four areas of activity. This will strengthen the Coastal Plant as a cost-effective establishment with robust professional environments and equip it to meet future challenges and requirements. The closure of Norway and the introduction of comprehensive infection prevention measures as a result of the covid-19 outbreak have sometimes resulted in capacity challenges and, in part, critical loss of revenue in aviation and in the provision of public transport and taxi services. However, social-critical transport has been conducted through various administrative, regulatory and economic measures, such as the purchase of transport services by the state and the implementation of necessary exemptions from the entry and quarantine rules for critical personnel. Aviation is a hard-hitting industry because of the pandemic. The government has through a number of different instruments contributed to Norwegian aviation having worked well through the pandemic. Air safety is still good, there is active air competition in Norway, and the air supply is good. The State has temporarily purchased regional air routes to ensure a minimum supply that is not covered by the market itself. A range of cultural, voluntary and sporting events have been cancelled in whole or in part as a result of infection protection restrictions in response to the outbreak of the virus. In order to limit the economic damage and to stimulate events where possible, the government continued in 2021 compensation and incentive schemes for culture, sport and volunteering. The government has proposed a new gambling law. The law shall replace three existing laws and imply that the field of gambling will be governed by an up-to-date and sound law. The Government has ratified the Marrakech Treaty and introduced national rules to improve access to literature in accessible formats for people who are blind, have impaired vision or other disabilities that make reading difficult. In June, the government presented a new action plan on gender and sexuality. The government has reduced a public selection to figure out how to secure a society that gives room for want and for being different. The Committee on Equivalence and Diversity is part of the government’s equal value reform and is to propose measures to contribute to gender equality and democratic participation for people with disabilities. A monitoring report has been submitted on the museum sector: Report. St. 23 for 2020-2021, Musea in society – trust, things and time. The construction of the National Museum has been completed. In March, the government presented a historical report on child and youth culture as a comprehensive policy area at national level, which also covers the cultural sphere. The government has put forward a strategy on stage art. Furthermore, the government has presented a new action plan on universal design and has launched a strategy for a more equal education and labour market. The government has reduced a public selection to allow access to Norwegian character languages. The NOU will be delivered to the Ministry of Culture in the spring of 2023. In September, the government presented a sports strategy. With this strategy, government will promote lack and inclusion in sport and contribute to strengthening sport activity following the pandemic. The adoption of the agricultural policy means a significant strengthening of the climate and environmental performance of the agricultural agreement, during this investment in climate action to contribute to emission reductions. The government prioritised increasing production and self-sufficiency in areas where there are market opportunities. Reductions in cropland have gradually declined in recent years. The government has put forward an updated soil protection strategy and has set a target of reducing annual re-disposal of cultivated soil to 3000 deches by 2025. The government has been agreed with the Norwegian Rein driftssamers Landsförbund on a reindeer management agreement for 2021-2022. The agreement significantly strengthens the framework conditions for the industry and prioritises preserving the area of reindeer, emergency preparedness and measures to protect Norwegian reindeer who cannot use their pastures in Sweden.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-11.ana.ud97e680	Your Majesty, Your Royal Highness, co-representatives! The opening of the 166th store marks the beginning of a new expansion period. This year, there's more than one reboot. Storing choices always mean changing representatives. This year we would like to welcome 48 new growth representatives. This year, the proportion of women is higher than ever. Now it's even a little bit closer to 50 pst. It's time in the year we mark it's 100 years since Karen Platou was the first woman to be chosen as a fixed landfill. Some in the hall will probably also leave us to take up the council of His Majesty in a short time. At the same time, this harvest has come with an almost springy sense of enlightenment and freedom. Inside, the glass-ceilings are removed, outside, society is reopened. People gather again for all the joys, chores and sorrows of life. We believe that the pandemic is on the verge. World society has been put to a great test — political, economic, social and valuable. Rehabilitation and – in some areas – repatriation will also affect our work in the weeks and months to come. The same will be true of the need to reap lessons. We have been reminded that a lowering of society, strict restrictions on the freedom of its citizens and the need for continuous crisis management make great demands on the community, politicians and all of us, as citizens of society. No one knew that we were going to meet a pandemic when we caught up with the previous growing-up period. Similarly, we do not know what the coming period will bring, but we can assume that we will face new unknown challenges, and that new ways of understanding the world will grow over the four years ahead of us. We will have to find new solutions, new understanding and new ways and at the same time have to defend the fundamental principles of democracy every day. Democracy and the protection of diversity, openness and freedom are not always the easiest way, but it is the right way. The spaces for the disunity and peaceful preservation of diversity are prerequisites for democracy. The management of this is one of the tasks that rests on us who are taking on the work of the 166th big business today. Among other things, this requires that we have the will and the ability to have a decent, respectful and factual change of words. At the main hall we are regulated by the Rules of Procedure and the President's Club. Outside the Storting we are freer, but not without responsibility when we express ourselves about each other. Let's remember this responsibility whether we express ourselves in writing or orally. Many people's eyes are directed towards the Storting because what we're going to do together here is important. Our work concerns the lives of all those who live in Norway. Attention is focused on policy, debate and decisions and how we manage our responsibilities. That's the way it should be. Urgency, scrutiny and critical consciousness around us are necessary because the Storting is the primary institution of the People's Government. The path from the choice of Platou in 1921 to equivalent representation for women and men has been long. Representation of the whole population – women and men, the elderly and the younger, different districts and different backgrounds – is central to the government. We are all representatives of the people. We have to keep an eye on that task throughout our time of ageing. We manage the voter's trust. We must also manage their opinions, values and needs. The manifold must be present in our work. The size is again grouped together for responsible work. We meet in confidence about the major tasks ahead of us, and the responsibility we have assumed. With these words we rise up and spread together the old desire: God preserve the King and the homeland!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-11.ana.ud97e709	The President will propose that the speech of His Majesty the King and the report on the state and government of the kingdom be discussed at a later meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
