ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-30.ana.ud532e30	The representatives of Kirsti Bergstø, Per Olaf Lundteg, Sveinung Rotevatern, Trine Lise Sundnes and Roy Steffensen, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For East Agder: Oddbjørn Kylland For Buskerud: Kristin Ørmen Johnsen For Oslo: Michael Tetzschner From the Røjres Stortingsgruppe there is an application for leave under the second sentence of Section 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the representative Bård Ludwig Thorheim from 30 November until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Marianne Dobak Kvensjö, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-30.ana.ud532e85	Marianne Dobak Kvensjö is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-30.ana.ud532e96	The representative, Frank Edvard Sve, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-30.ana.ud532e101	I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on behalf of Sylvi Listhaug, Hans Andreas Limi, Marius Arion Nilsen and myself to introduce restrictions on power exports in order to protect Norwegian preparedness and security of supply. We ask that this be dealt with urgently in accordance with the second paragraph of Section 39 of the Rules of Procedure (c).
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-30.ana.ud532e108	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that case no. 3, Unit, will be dealt with before case No. 2, and the President asks the representatives to be present until the minutes have been finalised.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-30.ana.ud532e126	The Workers' Group has requested that a new member be elected to the Election Committee instead of Eva Kristin Hansen. The President is asking for proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-30.ana.ud532e131	I propose Masud Gharahkhani.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-30.ana.ud532e136	Masud Gharakhani has been proposed as a new member of the Election Committee instead of Eva Kristin Hansen. – Other proposals are not available, and Masud Gharakhani is unanimously elected as a new member of the Election Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-30.ana.ud532e269	The size would then go back to case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-30.ana.ud532e283	Let me first, on behalf of the government, congratulate the President on his new important role! Thank you for the opportunity to explain to Stortinget about the government's management of the covid-19 outbreak. My main message today is that the pandemic is not over. It has come into a new phase. We're going through a winter that will require us to succeed in keeping control, because the infection will be among us. We need to gather around grips that allow us to deal with the situation. On the one hand, we need to find the measures to avoid overcrowded hospitals and excessive burden on health services. On the other hand, we need to avoid a new closure with the great social and economic consequences that we know it will have. The goal is to do both. We must learn from what we have experienced for almost two years, in Norway and in other countries. The most important thing we've learned, and what points the way forward, is that through vaccination we're much better protected than before. We can withstand more infection than we did before, but we have to have control. Therefore, in this phase of the pandemic, the most important measure can be summarised in one word: vaccine. Let me summarize the situation as it is today, on the last day of November. The situation now is that infection in Norway is increasing. In the last week, about 18 000 new infected persons have been registered. That's about. six times as high as at the beginning of October. There has also been an increase in hospital admissions, but it is worth noting that the increase is far from as strong as the increase in infection rates. The main explanation is that the vaccine protects against serious disease. There are now about 250 patients with covid-19 in Norwegian hospitals. 58 of these are in intensive care units. That's about. a doubling since the entry into October. Covid-19 patients now make up a little bit above 20 pst. by those in intensive care. Several hospitals have postponed planned operations and, if this development persists, it will lead to several such deferrals. The burden on municipal health and care services has increased. We'll hear that from a lot of sides of the country. I have heard it in conversations with hardworking women and men in the care of the elderly and other parts of the service. And we are totally dependent on the municipalities in the further management of the pandemic. The new virus variant discovered by researchers in South Africa last week, called omicron, contributes to increased roadside uncertainty. The preliminary technical assessments of the omicron variant are that it is more contagious than the delta variant, but the omicron variant is so unlikely to cause more serious disease. At the same time, we do not yet know how well existing vaccines protect us from the new virus. Nearer 90 pst. the adult population is now fully vaccinated. It puts us high on the lists compared to other countries. Everyone over the age of 12 has been offered a vaccine. We're much better protected than before and at the beginning of the pandemic. The figures from the hospitals give a clear picture: Inpatients who are fully vaccinated have a median age of about 10 years. 75 years. This is mainly older with risk factors for serious illness. The unvaccinated patients are much younger than the vaccinated patients, and they have a median age of about 20 years. 50 years. The unvaccinated make up 40 p.p. of the inpatient population, although they represent only 10 p.p. of the adult population. This tells us one thing: the vaccines work. With this in mind, the government has revised the strategy to deal with the pandemic. It's a strategy to control the pandemic through winter. It is a strategy aimed at preventing congestion in hospitals and municipal health services. Low infection rates are not a goal in itself. Covid-19 is here to stay. How long do we know, but we have to focus on the fact that it can take a long time. The basic and essential thing is that we protect children. The economy and workplaces shall be protected as far as possible. Public services shall be provided at a sound level. Controlling covid-19 is about finding the right balance. The strategy is based on what we know has worked in previous stages of the pandemic, as widespread use of testing to control the infection and isolation in case of disease. Municipalities will also continue to play a crucial role in the implementation of measures adapted to the infectiveness situation in themselves and must be prepared to take action that takes and that is proportionate. And again – and most importantly: such a strategy is based more than anything else on strengthening one national measure that we know is most important: effective vaccination. The vaccine coverage in Norway is good. However, there are 350,000 people in our country over the age of 16 who have not been vaccinated, and there are about 600,000 who have not taken at least two doses. The oldest of us have very high vaccine coverage. The young follow up well. We need greater upsurge among people aged 25 to 40 and some groups born abroad. Getting these groups to take the vaccine will mean a lot. It will lower the burden on the health care system, and it will help us to live together as much as possible as possible. So my clear commandment to all who have so far said no is: "Thank you, yes, and vaccine you!" I said earlier that it was difficult to predict the development of the pandemic. Based on health care advice, it was decided under the previous government that municipalities should give priority to setting up influenza vaccines first, before a refresher for over 65 years of age. The seasonal flu is currently absent. The number of covid-19 patients has increased. At the same time, we gain new knowledge, based on experience and research, on the importance of the third dose. It is now solidly documented. International studies suggest that the dose of refresher in the elderly has a good effect. Those who have taken the third dose have a significantly lower risk of getting infected and significantly lower risk of being hospitalised with covid-19. The effect also appears to be only a short time after the vaccine has been set, faster than after the second dose. The most important measure right now, in the weeks that remain of 2021, is therefore that all over 65 years of age receive a refresher dose as soon as possible. If we do that, it will significantly reduce the need for more interventional measures. Now we turn up the speed of the vaccination. We're going to make a change of pace. In the future, municipalities will have to be able to vaccine people at the same rate as when we were vaccinated for all this year before. This implies that municipalities have to plan to set 400000 doses per week, starting from April 2022. Once the municipalities have given a new dose to everyone over 65, we immediately move on. Municipalities will continue with refresher rates for all over 45 years – then it's the President and my turn. We plan to have the entire adult population, including those between the ages of 18 and 45, vaccinated with the third dose before Easter. If we can get the vaccines out quickly, hopefully the burden on municipalities and hospitals will be reduced in time. The municipalities have consistently made a solid effort. Now they have to mobilize again. We will make specific demands for vaccination to the municipalities in the regulations. All municipalities shall provide an available offer for vaccination which does not require an hourly order and which also has a certain opening time outside normal office hours. We know that municipalities have had many good and creative solutions to make it easier for many to accept vaccines. We know that many have worked well with employers to get this done. My message is: Use all the experience you have in mobilising capacity. There have been drop-in offers outside normal working hours, driving services to pick up residents for vaccination, home vaccination and school vaccination. In addition to health professionals, pensioners, students and volunteers have contributed. Now we have to get all these offers – and perhaps more – up and stand still. This weekend we could read about the municipality of Hammerfest. There they are soon finished with the refresher doses for all over 65 years. Also in Oslo, the vaccination has taken off. There's almost 60 pst. in the 65-year-old group, received a third dose. Some municipalities ask questions about the cost of a new mobilization for vaccination. So let me make it clear: the state will also take the bill for vaccination in 2022. This also applies to the costs of vaccinating faster and making the offer more accessible. In addition, expenditure will include, inter alia: testing and other necessary corona-related measures are compensated. We also closely monitor the economic situation in hospitals and, if necessary, propose increased appropriations. Also on the frontier and when we're going out to travel, we have to learn to live with covid-19. The government recently opened entry for all foreigners entitled to entry under the Foreign Affairs Act, following clear health advice. But it's not about entry without control. At the same time, we did two other steps: first, we tightened control. As a general rule, all travellers shall register in the Entry Registration System. We also recruited the National Control Centre, so that they can again contact residents of Norway who are going to quarantine. Secondly, we tightened the entry measures against unvaccinated people. They must now both take a test before they arrive in Norway and be tested when they arrive in the country. The government is following the situation closely. The disease situation remains uncertain and uncertain in many countries. If necessary, we will introduce stricter rules. We did that last week. The government then introduced several immediate-effect measures to slow down and delay the spread of the new virus variant. We have introduced increased border control, more testing requirements and quarantine hotel requirements for residents from the countries concerned in Africa. We have done this together with a number of European countries. We're part of a community. We share the outer boundary, and the measures work better when we move in the same direction. We're going to follow the situation with the new virus variant carefully in the time coming, almost hour by hour. We are now working on new restrictions in the border rules. We do this in close dialogue with health authorities and with other countries. We will come back later today with more information about this. And let there be no doubt: the government is prepared to take the necessary action quickly if the situation so warrants and we have solid professional coverage. Living with covid-19 in society requires that we protect the health care and hospitals and prevent denial of service. I would like to thank all employees in these services – in hospitals and in the municipalities. You've been in it so incredibly long and done an impressive and important job. So I know that thank you alone is a poor comfort for all of you who have been on throughout the pandemic – and still do so. Because it is not just coronaviruses that present challenges for healthcare. Municipalities and hospitals are under severe pressure, also for other reasons. Sick leave is high and access to qualified personnel is limited. There are now many children who are infected with the RS virus and who need hospital treatment. Fortunately, we see evidence that this virus is now on its way back. The outbreak of the year has not yet begun, but an increase in influenza will come to the top of an already under pressure healthcare service. We also know that there are many patients who are ready-to- print in hospitals that do not go further. It tries to solve the hospitals in cooperation with the municipalities concerned. Hospitals have not received enough money for several years, and we must also recognise that the intensive capacity in Norway is not good enough. A limited intensive capacity in hospitals is now giving strong impetus to the need for action, which in turn may have a major impact on the social economy. We have to do something about this, it takes time, but the capacity needs to be strengthened. The government has proposed to increase hospital appropriations by 700 million. kr in addition to that contained in the proposal of the Solberg Government. In terms of intensive capacity, we may have respirators, but lack competent personnel in sufficient quantity. Work with the Health Personnel Commission is important. The Commission shall promote measures to train, recruit and maintain qualified health professionals across the country. We have said that we should increase the basic funding of hospitals. It will provide a basis for strengthening preparedness. We will work with health regions and take a joint responsibility to ensure increased capacity in the future. If we are to succeed in controlling the infection, it is mainly the municipalities that need to put in place measures to control the infection locally. The municipalities now, as before, have a key role in managing the pandemic. Local and regional measures adapted to the infectiveness situation are essential. Several municipalities, such as Trondheim and Tromsø, have taken local action and have provided the public with recommendations and advice to prevent the spread of infection and excessive burden on health and care services. We know that municipal measures that take place have a good effect. Korona certificates may be used to grant exemptions from the restrictions on the transmission of infectious diseases to vaccinated persons and to persons who have tested negative. This could be done, for example, by: means that restaurants, concert scenes and cinemas can be kept open as usual, even in municipalities with local measures. The use of a corona certificate will contribute to more predictability for business. In our dialogue with industry and with the social partners, we feel that there is broad support for the use of a corona certificate. We also follow the experience that is now taking place in Europe. Local measures adopted by municipalities will normally be accurate and proportionate and best suited to meeting local infectious developments. The baseline of a winter control strategy is high pressure on vaccination, extensive use of testing, isolation in case of disease, good control of entry into Norway and access for municipalities and regions to take action. However, there will still be a need for reinforced national measures in certain situations. Now we're in such a situation. Although good decisions have been taken locally, there is still an expected increase in hospitalisations and deaths. Therefore, the government considers it appropriate to tighten up and introduce several national measures. It is absolutely central to the government that the population is provided with sound health care and that we have sufficient health professionals to provide the services. National measures will help us to keep control over the winter. I would like everyone to follow up on these, so that we can avoid more stringent measures later on. We put in place two rules: First, if you live with someone who is infected, you have to stay in quarantine until you have a negative test. This applies to adults whether vaccinated or unvaccinated. In order to release the quarantine, the vaccine must be re-tested at the latest after seven days. Unvaccinated patients must test themselves daily for seven days with PCR tests at the earliest or every two days. For children, this is not an obligation, but a recommendation. Secondly, if you get infected by covid-19, you have to be isolated for five days. This applies regardless of whether you are vaccinated or not. Until now, the requirement has been two days for those vaccinated without symptoms. In addition, you must have been free of fever for 24 hours before leaving isolation. In addition, we have new recommendations: A national recommendation to use mouthbands in contact with healthcare services is introduced. A national recommendation is introduced to use mouthbands for public transport, taxis, shops and shopping centres where it is not possible to keep a distance. In addition, we continue to recommend regular testing of school students in areas with increasing spread of infectious diseases and a high burden on health and care services. Finally, the government is asking for municipalities with increasing infection and high health burden to assess the increased use of home offices. The measures I have mentioned apply from tomorrow, and they apply until further notice. Municipalities still need to assess the need for their own more stringent measures. The measures should be coordinated at regional level if local authorities and the state administrator consider it necessary. We also encourage close contact and dialogue with the social partners. In today's situation, the government believes that it is not right, or proportionate, to ask everyone to stay at home, shut down cultural and leisure activities, or switch to digital education. The price of the shutdown is well documented and very high, both economically and socially, and is not proportionate in today's situation. We know that shutting down led to loneliness, unemployment, and that those who had it tough economically had even bigger problems, and a large increase in mental ill health — especially among our young people. Parents were alone, our kids lost education, and too many children and young people were away from sport. We can control such a shut-down now. The vaccine provides protection, more vaccines provide even better protection. You grow up, you're protected, and you protect others, too. The government has stressed the importance of designing measures that we believe are proportionate and not interventional, and we will place great emphasis on protecting children and vulnerable groups. At the same time, it is important not to have major ring-effects in terms of reduced activities for events and cultural life, and that society can function as normally as possible. However, let me stress this: the government is ready to take more action quickly if the measures we are taking are not sufficiently effective or if a new situation arises that requires rapid action. The Omicron variant also creates uncertainty about the need for action in the future, but we are constantly following the situation with the professional authorities and are ready to put in place the necessary measures. The pandemic also requires us to look beyond the borders of the country. We see again and again how mutations can occur in areas with low vaccine coverage, as with the mutation omicron. The pandemic is not over until all have been vaccinated. The government wants Norway to continue to take the lead in the global pandemic. We have a long experience in Norway in leading international vaccine cooperation. The creation of GAVI with Norwegian leadership is one example. I want to recognise the government of Solberg for taking responsibility for strengthening international vaccine cooperation. The government will take its responsibility. We have fulfilled the promise to share five million vaccines that we do not need ourselves, with other countries. And let me say, we have enough vaccines to achieve the goals I've just mentioned. Overall, we expect to have contributed to providing access to over 30 million doses of vaccine globally. We cooperate with the European Commission and the EU Member States to facilitate donations for the purchase of vaccines by the EU. We are strengthening efforts for equal access to vaccines, medicines, test capacities and protective equipment by 2 billion. kr from Norway. We do that through the ACT-A collaboration, which works for rapid development, production and equal distribution of covid-19 tests, treatment and vaccines. Together with the President of South Africa, I want to face this cooperation. And Norway will work closely with the EU in terms of both vaccines and health preparedness. New drugs for covid-19 are also being developed. These may become important in order to prevent serious illness and avoid denial of health and care services. The first authorisations from the European Medicines Agency, EMA, can come in the near future. The government works with the EU to acquire such medicines. Let me also mention that the World Trade Organisation is negotiating in relation to patent law to make both vaccines and medicines more accessible to more people. Norway is actively participating in those negotiations and we are contributing to good solutions. Finally, Norway has managed the pandemic better than most other countries. Now we're going to be able to keep control through the winter. And we have the best assumptions for that. We can manage to keep up the pressure with vaccination – one dose, one dose two, one dose three, maybe even more in a while. We have financial muscles to keep hospitals and municipalities going, and we follow the situation closely in working life and business. We have strong health environments in the Health Directorate and the Public Health Institute, and we base our policies on professional advice. We're listening to the advice. Then it's a political responsibility to finally make decisions. That's the way it was for the previous government, and that's how it is for this government. So we know that it could be done wrong. Now that we're going to have to make demanding decisions under uncertainty, but we're going to make our choices based on informed advice, learning from experience, and using the strengths of democracy to constantly learn and lay the foundation for the best choices we can make. The Storting is an arena for political debate, with a marked consensus and disagreement, also in the handling of the Korona. But let's now, on the threshold of a next phase of the pandemic, the one where we're going to control the virus, protect our health care system and prevent shut-down, show us from our best side of this room – not create fear, not hunt headlines, but serve as best we can all worry now, troubled now and weary now. I think that's what we do best by being honest about what we're going into -- a period when we can't count on the infection being gone. It must be checked. The goal is that we can live with the infection without overburdening the health care system or introducing measures that take too much action in our lives. And we can do that together.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-30.ana.ud532e437	According to Stortingen’s Rules of Procedure, § 45 will now open a short comment round limited to one post of up to 5 minutes from each party group and a final statement from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-30.ana.ud532e442	Thank you to the Prime Minister for the initiative to explain to the Stortinget and for a good and thorough presentation. Let me first also take the opportunity to thank all those who are in the first line in the Corona handling, and who have spent so long making a strong effort for the community: Thank you for the work you are doing, and will continue to do so. The Prime Minister is clear in his statement: the pandemic is not over. It's over in a new phase. The infection will be among us in the future. That is why a revised strategy has been presented here today. Because even though the news about the omicron variant makes the situation more uncertain, we're in a new phase. High levels of vaccination allow us as a society to withstand more infection than we did before. The goal is as the Prime Minister has stressed: that we can live with the infection without overloading the healthcare system or introducing measures that take too much action in our lives. We're going to keep control through the winter. The statement shows that the government takes the situation very seriously and continues to base it on professional advice. Increased national measures are introduced, vaccination is intensified and virus variants are met by rapid action. Municipalities will also continue to play a crucial role in implementing measures adapted to the infectiveness situation and ready to take action that takes and that is proportionate. Health needs to be strengthened, and we are strengthening our international contribution. One of the main explanations given by the Corona Commission on why Norway has succeeded better than other countries in meeting the pandemic is trust. In particular, the population has ended up in the fight against infectious diseases because we have a good starting point as a society with high trust in the authorities and in each other. Trust will continue to be essential for us to succeed in further handling, for the population to take the vaccines they are being offered as quickly as possible, and for us to continue to comply with the measures that will be needed. A good public change of words with factual debate and disagreement can build confidence, but a weak and light-minded change of words can build it down. That is exactly why we have an overall responsibility in this room and the role we choose to play. And lately, we've witnessed something that can't be called anything but a powerful reverse operation. The party that, in government, underlined the importance of following professional advice, and that we should not allow this to happen, is in an increasing number of channels and is asking for national measures to protect infection – without responding to what and how far they want to take action, without relying on professional advice and without any relation to the balances they know to be made. And yet, big words are used against individual municipalities as well as the government. The government and government parties at Stortinget are happy to listen to and take debates with the opposition, but then we also expect responsibility to be taken, that the cricket being promoted has content, and that the recordings are concrete – not an empty criticism and a search for headlines. The pandemic is not over, and the infection will be with us in the future. And as the Prime Minister said, we need to gather around the grips that allow us to deal with the situation and keep control through the winter. The measures that have now been put forward are good, and I hope that there are also measures that the opposition ends up in.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-30.ana.ud532e461	Let me begin by thanking the Prime Minister for responding to the call to explain the government's strategy. Unfortunately, the pandemic has flared up again in the past few weeks. The hospital situation is demanding and operations are postponed. Employees have called for a clearer response, most recently when the Prime Minister visited Aarhus recently, and death rates are rising again. I would like to stress that the government cannot be loaded because the infection is spreading again, and it is disappointing that the effect of the vaccines is shorter than we thought and hoped. It's a disappointment I think I share with today's government. We thought Norway had some advantage, that a greater proportion of mRNA vaccines and longer intervals between doses would make Norway better rusted when autumn and winter set in. Now, unfortunately, it doesn't look like this. We've learned that the coronary virus is unpredictable. That is also why the previous government, although a lot of it looked good, placed great emphasis on the fact that the preparedness still had to be high. The last increase in infection has occurred throughout the country. For three weeks, the Health Directorate's advice on oral bandages and infectious quarantine has been on the government's table without follow-up before today. For three weeks, the prayers for clearer advice and guidance from the municipalities and central governments have been on the government’s table without having received an answer before now. I will therefore be allowed to be clear that in the future I expect a government that is more ahead, that thinks more readiness and leads where, that acts faster, that communicates more clearly, and that listens more to professional advice that can provide a good response to the infections early. And if you choose not to follow professional advice, then you also publicly justify why you have chosen not to do so. For today, national Councils are being set up by the Health Directorate three weeks ago. All the experience shows us that early action will allow us to cope with easier action and to get away with it more quickly. It is important that the government will ensure that the pace of vaccination increases significantly. It is good that you now also go away from what you said earlier, that you would wait until next year at doses for them under 65. It is important that we put them as quickly as possible, as soon as the municipalities can. A rapid clarification is also needed on the issue of child vaccination. Now, as I understand it, we have significant quantities of vaccines in the freezer, and so they're doing little good there. The most important job the government has in the future is to make sure that the vaccines come out of the freezer and into the arms of people who need protection quickly. It's probably a disappointment that the Prime Minister thinks the president is a little more mature than he has. I guess that's not how the president gets into the priority yet, on the part of the government. In recent days, many countries have introduced new measures to limit the spread of the omicron variant, including in Norway, the government has been following advice from the Public Health Institute and the Health Directorate on enhanced action, and that is good. At the same time, I note that the government is holding on to the removal of restrictions on entry into force by night to Friday, also for South Africa and the countries around. According to the Health Directorate, this is a political assessment. I also record that the government in the event of border crossings is otherwise largely leaning on trust-based schemes and imposes little, for example. quarantine hotels for individual groups. I would like to remind you that we have experience that trust-based schemes did not give the effect that people followed up well enough. However, I assume that the government has carefully assessed that this is sufficient in the current situation in Norway. The Prime Minister has explained what the government will do in the future. We're going to study those grips carefully. We're concerned that we have to be flexible all the time. This is also taking our job seriously, that we ensure that we get good explanations as to why we choose not to follow professional advice when they arrive, as the government has not done until today. But the important thing now is that we see these words translated into action, and that it happens quickly. We take the Prime Minister's presentation for information and not least want the government to be happy with what we know is a very demanding work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-30.ana.ud532e478	I would also like to thank the Prime Minister for his presentation. We're on our way into a new phase of the coronary apathy. The infection is increasing greatly in many places, the number of insertions is increasing, and we've got a spread of the so-called omicron variant of the virus. It is clear that we need to be more vigilant and more alert to comply with new measures than before. The challenge will then be the balance between national and local measures, the balance between recommendations and mandatory measures – for the aim is not to shut down again, as we did last winter, but many places will nevertheless have to comply with stricter measures. The fear of overburdening our hospital capacity also needs to be balanced against what is enough a fatigue in the population over many measures, and thus also the willingness to comply with them. In that way, I think the statement was good. There are therefore four main measures outlined: disease testing and isolation, effective vaccination and entry requirements. We have some starting points that give us reason to have a certain hope, for example. the high degree of vaccination that we have in the adult population in Norway. But having a better follow-up of certain groups in terms of vaccination, and also speeding up the third dose of the vaccine, is absolutely necessary. That's why I take a very positive view of the scheme that was outlined by the Prime Minister, with a strong increase and escalation of vaccination with a third dose. It is true that the municipalities there will have a key role, and that the ability, the will and the ability of the municipalities to implement it will be the critical point. In this way, it is also good that it is said that the State will take the bill for what the municipality has for the costs associated with the Korona, as has been done in the past. There is also reason to take a positive view of the recommendation now given on mouthbands — the ability to use mouthbands in collective travel, in shops, in taxis, in health and care services to also improve protection. The omicronvarian we are now meeting has led to the introduction of a number of new measures. It's important. There are restrictions on flights and entry from specific countries, strict insulation requirements and also measures must apply to both vaccinated and unvaccinated as long as we do not fully know how the vaccine works on this variant of corona. The goal cannot be to prevent it from coming to Norway, but to delay its spread, so that as much as possible has been able to get a third vaccine dose before it comes to Norway for real. It would be very positive if we were able to get to it. So a little bit about the opposition. I believe it is the opposition's role to demand speed and action and that kind of thing, but nevertheless I'm a little surprised at the way the Right has chosen to go into this debate, because when the Right after a election starts the debate by yelling at a retired health minister, it's a little strange. By choosing the option, the voters made sure that their right majority was lost. Other parties have thus had to take responsibility, and other state councils have had to assume the responsibility of governing under a coronary apathy. And one would think they should get a chance to do it without the Right suggesting this kind of argument. The right does not propose any new measures, and I expect the right also to recognise the difficult and demanding balancing process that should protect us as a population without at the same time hitting business and jobs too hard again. That's why I'm also very positive about what's the Prime Minister's mantra, as I hear it, that almost reaches 90 pst. in Norway, it is important for us to try to control the pandemic during the winter. But we have to think that the infection is still going to be in society. We have to find the good balance between protecting ourselves seas without simultaneously shutting the Norwegian community down completely.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-30.ana.ud532e495	I want to start by thanking the Prime Minister for the presentation. I think there are a lot of people who are relieved that you don't have to shut down again. And then we're going to hope that the measures that are now outlined will help keep things going on like this. People are tired, and many are also concerned about the new variant, which has probably already come to the country. The Prime Minister is clear that the pandemic is far from over. The more surprising it is to look at the budget that now, after all the sun tags are being adopted for next year. The working party and the central party in opposition were strongly critical of the number of intensive sites. I note that the Prime Minister is also talking about it today, but there is not a penny earmarked for intensive places in this budget. The progress party proposes to earmark 500 million. kr next year to get that right. Now we see that operations are cancelled, treatments are cancelled, and there are no tools or plans to meet it. This government will not use private capacity – which is available there – as operating rooms, doctors who are ready to remedy the situation. For the Advancement Party, it's more important that people get help than who's giving you help, and we should want it to be that way for the government that now rules. Employees have made a formidable effort under the pandemic. Many are tired, some have already stopped, and many consider stopping. There's a situation where we already need a lot more nurses and health professionals. Nor is it here that there is hardly a proposal in next year's budget that will remedy this situation. And no, we don't need a commission. We know that the challenge is that we train too few, the pay is too low. What you need is action. The Progress Party proposes to train more nurses next year. We propose to further train more nurses to become specialist nurses, and we propose to increase the salary of health workers, simply because they deserve it. It will ensure recruitment, and it will ensure that we keep the labour force. None of this has been answered in the budget that lies there for next year, and which is an important follow-up to the pandemic, which we are still in. The authorities said no one affected by the pandemic should be left alone. Still, we see that the psychiatry has great flaws. It's hardly a priority. It's not earmarked for next year's budget. Among children and adolescents, there is an explosive increase in the number of eating disorders. The organisation Consulting on Eating Disorders – the Resource Centre – reports that there are the longest queues ever in its 40-year history. They're in it now. Nevertheless, the budgets of this centre are cut now, in a situation where more is needed than ever. The Progress Party secured in the revised national budget for the current year 650 million. kr extra to psychiatry. Unfortunately, it has not continued at the level of the proposal that is now before us. Mental Health Youth called it a historical bet. The problem now is that that bet is history, because neither the right-wing government nor the Labour Party and the Center Party are prioritizing to follow this up. For ROS, this resource center that helps children with eating disorders, it means cutting the supply. That means they have fewer people to be able to help those who now need it more than ever. It's a betrayal of children and young people, who face great challenges because of the pandemic, in which we still stand. Once again, we see that money is being spent on assistance, symbolic climate action and a lot of other things, but you don't have the money to strengthen healthcare at home enough, despite the fact that we're still in the middle of a pandemic. There is no lack of money, but there is a lack of priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-30.ana.ud532e510	I would also like to thank the Prime Minister for his presentation. We end up with the targets, and the measures seem sensible and to be at a reasonable level. Providing a third dose is now necessary. I also noticed the age priority: 45–65 years. As a 44-year-old, I am pleased that the Prime Minister defines 18–44 years as a youth group. That's good. We are pleased that the Prime Minister has been clear about the intensive capacity. There has been an important criticism of the previous government, that it did not happen any more on the extension of that capacity under the pandemic. So it's also worth remembering when it comes to the last speaker's new proposal, that she didn't do anything about it when she had the opportunity. But I'm glad the government says you're going to do it now. Then I think it's also in place to remember that it's not just a money issue, but that it's also a question of how we organize our health care system, because we have a funding system that makes it pay too much to think in the short term, while it's penalized itself financially to think in terms of preparedness. I think it's a crucial challenge, to get the capacity up enough, to do something about system problems in the management of our hospitals. While all of us hope that what is now happening will be sufficient to achieve the goal of preventing the spread of infection, preventing overloading in the healthcare system and thus avoiding more in-depth measures and closures, we still need to be prepared for what we do if we are to face a more serious situation. One of the things we have done in Norway is to get through very difficult trials with more trust and cohesion in the population than we now see in quite a number of European countries. One of the things we think is an important prerequisite for that is transparency, transparency and a good debate – even when it gets difficult. I would like to remind the Prime Minister that a criticism we had in common when the Workers' Party was also in opposition was that in the event of a long-standing crisis, we see that the infectious disease law is poorly adapted, because the government has very extensive powers and is able to implement very interventional measures without having to be anchored in the Stortinget. In the opposition, the Prime Minister agreed that it should be looked at. I want to encourage the government to do it now, because this pandemic is not suddenly over, and we think it is necessary that we get a better democratic anchoring, if we are to get back into a situation when we need more intervention. Then I have to say that I notice the criticism from the special Right. I would like to remind you that in the period when the Right guided the corona handling responsibly, the opposition, I believe, was very careful to criticise the priorities that went on the protection of the infection. We were busy creating collections around this. I notice what is now said by Erna Solberg and what the right-wing representatives have said in the media. It seems that the attitude now is a little different. I think it went quickly, and I think it happens on a thin basis. I want to warn against party political games in the discussion of what is involved in infectious diseases. Then I want to challenge the Prime Minister in terms of international affairs. That's where I think the government is still too weak. It is good that now there is a signal that one is willing to participate in a solution in the WTO related to patent exemptions. But Norway should be more forward-looking than that. Any decision in the WTO must be a compromise, for that is how the World Trade Organisation works. Now, when we see the drama of the emergence of new mutants, and how it can make sure that we don't get out of this pandemic, it shows that being vaccinated in poor countries is vital for us too. In that case, the profits of the pharmaceutical companies cannot stand in the way of that. Then we want a Norway that not only says that we can be part of a compromise and contribute actively, but that says that we will now actually go ahead in pushing the countries that are opposed, and get a wide exemption, not only for vaccines, but also for medicines and test equipment. I wish the government an even clearer position on this, because it must be fought if a sensible decision is to be taken in the WTO.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-30.ana.ud532e527	It's still serious. The infection rates are rising, the number of deposits is increasing, and the employees have had a huge load over a long period of time. We could recently read about intensive nurse Sandra Louise Mæland who, after only three years, now ends. To the NRK she said: Although I feel I have lived in the hospital under the pandemic, I go home with a bad conscience. I can't do it anymore. She's not alone. 72 pst. in the last year, the health care providers have assessed the end of the year. Hospital capacity was already under pressure before the crisis hit us. When the pandemic came, there was a great lack of intensive care. So we were in the lower half of the total number of places per capita in Europe. Today, almost none of the health care establishments have upgraded with new permanent intensive beds. St. Olavs and Ullevål are postponing operations that require hospitalisation and that have not been in a hurry to release health professionals. Professionals also believe that the shattered capacity of the healthcare system is not only due to corona but also to political priorities. The election showed us in the fall that most people want a new course. It must also apply to the health care system. The employees do not ask for more applause and praise. They require action. If we don't even manage to keep the ones we already have, so stop the flight from the health care system, it doesn't help to just train new intensive caregivers. That's why I want an answer to this from Gahr Støre: What concrete action does the government take to increase the intensive capacity of Norwegian hospitals? The Hurdal Platform says that the crisis response to the coronary apathy should last as long as the crisis. That is why it is good that the holiday pay for the unemployed is now in place. A large majority voted on this, and the Stortinget – and not least the trade union movement – has pressed for it to be put in place. Now there is a need for a lasting solution to the problems that the right-wing government has created for the unemployed, because the crisis is obviously not over. 10 000 unemployed will be reduced in income when the daily allowance is cut on 1 January. And if it's not taken, thousands of months for a month will now be the maximum period and fall completely out of the daily allowance system. I therefore wonder how Gahr Støre will meet the Hurdal platform's good wording for those who still depend on daily allowances. Isn't the clear lesson from when the pandemic caught us that we had a too black safety net from before, which must therefore be strengthened on a lasting basis? Again, the crisis is not over. We now have infectious diseases, new measures are introduced and long-term unemployment is high. Those who have left the job the longest have the greatest difficulty getting back to work. And if you lose your daily allowance, you may have to clear your savings account and sell everything you own and have before you can apply for social assistance. Selling away everything you own and have, getting social is not the guarantee of getting back to work faster and easier. It should also be realised by the Workers' Party. I think a lot of people are responding to the fact that companies that have received corona support went out more in dividends than usual in the crisis year, and that over 700 million. kr has ended up in the pockets of non-resident owners, while those affected by the crisis are now getting a solid feedback message. Finally, Red has long demanded that Norway give priority to human health to the benefits of the pharmaceutical companies and stop blocking the proposal supported by more than a hundred countries on the sharing of vaccine recipes. I would like to know whether the government's play last Friday means that Norway will continue to block the proposal of South Africa and India on the sharing of vaccine recipes, or not, and whether Norway, along with other rich countries, will continue to block patent exemptions for test equipment that poor countries per day cannot afford, but which is strictly necessary to combat the pandemic. Will we continue with that, or will there be a new course, so that everyone can actually get both vaccines and, not least, access to test equipment?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-30.ana.ud532e544	I would also like to start by thanking the Prime Minister for the statement and saying that the Left broadly supports that line of government. There is a great difference between what was acceptable measures in an emergency situation where we had little overview and little knowledge, and what are acceptable measures in a much longer situation where we also have much more knowledge. We believe this is not the time for new intervention in people's lives. It just can't be the new normal thing that we're going to discuss new, strong contractions in people's lives every winter. The Korona Commission concluded that the pandemic has seriously affected children and young people, and in mental health, we know that the Health Directorate expects a quiet tsunami in the form of an increased need for mental health care for children and young people in the years to come. The pandemic has undoubtedly gone down on vulnerable children and young people, even though together we did everything we could to avoid it. We know that assault and violence are increasing, children with disabilities are not getting the relief they need, and there is a sharp increase in eating disorders and depression. This is a situation we have to stretch very, very far to avoid. We know the negative consequences of intervention. In order to avoid new shut-downs, it is important to be clear that we are doing together what we can to reduce infection and avoid a new shut-down. We all have to test ourselves often if we are suspected of infection. We need to use mouthbands when we are encouraged to do so, and we need to implement the simple and important infections prevention measures in everyday life. I want to stress that it is a personal responsibility that everyone has. Then it's important that the authorities give very clear advice and recommendations that help us not to have unnecessary limitations in our lives in the future. The reason we've had a low disease burden is because we've had a high trust. We've had a population that's been following advice and recommendations, that's been following all the instructions we've given it. But as many have said, it's over now. People are tired, people are tired, people want their normal life. Last year at this time we were in a somewhat similar situation. Then the infection numbers were also on the way up. We had just got a new variant, and a lot of municipalities had massive shut-downs. The difference at that time and today is that then we were still waiting for the vaccine. Now it's like about all of the Nordics have received two doses of vaccine. I believe that the implementation of measures pending a vaccine can be justified. The question is: if we were to take action now, what would we be waiting for? There's nothing new happening now, except that we're going to get a third dose. There won't be any other kind of protection against the virus we have. We just have to find a way to live with this virus, just like we live with other infections in our society. I have not registered that others have called for strong, interventional measures against other infections. We just have to find a way to deal with this as the new normal. There is no doubt that the main challenges now relate to the burden on health services. If this is the new normal, that's what we have to expect when it comes to wintertime infections in Norway, then we also have to make sure to rig so that we have the capacity to handle just that type of infection, so that we do not have any strong restrictions on the way we live our lives. I am pleased that the Prime Minister underlines so clearly that vaccination is the main strategy, and it is also very good that we are now setting the pace in the municipalities to have as many as possible vaccinated with a third dose. It's high time. The measures taken to mitigate entry and quarantine rules seem reasonable. We are concerned that all measures introduced, large and small, should be well-founded on the basis of professional recommendations. We're going to follow those reasons carefully and look at them when they become available to us all. The Prime Minister is also committed to the use of corona passports as a current measure. We believe that this is also sensible, especially in view of the fact that the option will be strong, interventional measures. This is a tool that can be used primarily by municipalities. Here in Oslo, the municipality has not wanted to use it. I hope the dialogue between the government and the municipality is good, so that we avoid the fact that the people of Oslo, who have already been through very tough measures, are releasing new measures because they do not want to take this particular action. We lean heavily on the municipalities in this round as well. What is important then is that both people and municipalities know what the measures in question are, so that everyone can prepare well. But as I said, we don't want strong, interventional measures now. This isn't the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-30.ana.ud532e569	The government of Solberg solved the coronary apathy in a good way. They deserve to be thanked, and above all, of course, those who stood in the first place – the administration, the health services – and the many others who took the big noise, thank you. The previous government gained great confidence from the parties on the Stortinget, and the Greens share the same view of the new government. We trust that the new government will continue and strengthen the pandemic work. The Green Party has also been critical of the corona policy, mainly to the burden it has placed on health care professionals. There has been too low a consistent capacity, especially in intensive, infectious and acute receptions, and the load on the first line, fixed doctors and health centres has been too high. Not least, the most vulnerable groups have fallen through. The homeless and children have remained partly outside the relief measures, and within the business world, the sectors of culture, nightlife and travel have had far too unsafe conditions and have had too much noise, with a help that was too late for many. It is in stark contrast to the eagerness of the majority of the population to spend a tremendous amount of money undermining climate policy with the pandemic as an excuse through exceptional support schemes for the oil industry last summer. That is why the Environment Party calls on the Green Prime Minister and the Government to strengthen further corona policy in three areas in particular. Firstly, the capacity of health services must now be strengthened. Everyone is pleased that the Prime Minister promised this in his speech, and it will be a decisive test of the government's ability to show its power of action and translate it into fast realities and not just in words. The Green Party believes that at least 100 new intensification sites and 300 new monitoring sites are needed quickly, and then emergency reception and infective medical bed posts need to be expanded. We also need to increase the capacity of municipal health services, to which patients are very often printed, and which are now partly a plug in the system. The decision-makers to deal with the mildest cases need to have better capacity. How should this be done in practice? I hope that the Prime Minister will be able to come back to his final post. We must be prepared for the next wave, and this time the crisis packages must be ready in advance. We must reduce the burden on the weakest groups, and the most vulnerable parts of the business must know that the support packages are ready. Those who need food and somewhere to sleep need to know that they get it. The industries that have taken the really big noise need to know that this time help is present, so that not cultural workers, outdoor workers and employees in travel life realize that they lose their jobs once more, that they are going conceiving again. The Prime Minister said something important: ‘The pandemic is not over until everyone is vaccinated’. Today is 90 pst. by the Norwegian population, half of the elderly have received a booster dose. But in South Africa, which is the country with the highest vaccine coverage in Africa, only 25 pst. have been vaccinated, and in very many other countries the level is much lower. So the pandemic isn't over until everyone's vaccinated. Now, while we're at the full speed of rolling out the third vaccine dose in Norway, it's a very big moral, but also medical dilemma that we don't have a greater international effort to give all the vaccines. This concerns everything from self-interest to elementary solidarity and morality. That is why it is good that the Prime Minister promised both money for and efforts for more international vaccine circulation. This work needs to be intensified by Norway, both through the WHO and through its role in ACT-A and TRIPS, and that is what we are going to get back to by the Greens. Finally, pandemic work needs to be better anchored in the Storting in order to ensure the legitimacy of the population, and we encourage the government to take important decisions more often back to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-30.ana.ud532e589	I want to go into this by thanking the Prime Minister for the presentation. It was important that he came and explained to the Stortinget. Many have mentioned the capacity of hospitals. The Prime Minister also said we should tolerate more infection. Although there is more infection in the population, the more infected it is in the population the more infected it is in the population the more infected it will enter the hospital, even though the percentage between them will be smaller. This will require both intensive and intensive care. I, as a self-educated intensive nurse, know that it takes time. Two years of education, and it's no use with intensive beds if you don't have people to serve them. That means we have to start at the right end and educate and not least keep the ones that are there. There is no doubt that we are getting reports that there is a lot of wear and tear that has now gone on for almost two years. Never knowing if you're free tonight is a big impression for those who're involved, where they're all around with their lives in their hands. This makes employees feel that they are not valued enough. I would also like to thank you for more clarity on actions, which I experienced today. It's important to us in this house, and it's also very important to them out there. It's easy to think we're done with the pandemic because we've had reopening parties across the country. We need to explain what we're now being asked to do. It was not easy to understand that we were going to reopen, while things were going to get more stringent. That's why I'm very concerned that the information reaches out, that we understand why, that the information is well available to the population, in several languages, and not least that it takes into account cultural barriers that create a wall between it and the information given. There are real tools that now have to be available to anyone who needs them. Even for me, it is now difficult to go into the government.no and find information about the pandemic, it is no longer on the front. How do you think it's for people who may not be so concerned with politics, but who are busy finding information, and who do not find it, who are not known on these sides? Therefore, it is incredibly important that information is taken on board at all stages to make the measures work, because the measures should be proportionate and we need to be willing to implement what is needed. Lower thresholds for the simple measures are best, as the path to intervention is longer than usual. It has been said in this room that we will be concerned with both children and young people, who have paid a great price, and of the elderly, who have experienced a lot of solitude. I expect that there will also be a clear strategy for protecting children and young people. What measures are we going to have in the future to protect these as best we can? How can we clearly care for the elderly who are now entering into a celebration of concern for all the visits they may not take? The solitude gets even greater. It's about creating and communicating a space of action that makes no one feel that the measures are becoming more stringent than they really are, but that they experience flexibility while they feel a sense of clarity: I can do this with a good conscience. Finally, the world has become small, and we've got a mutated virus. It reminds us that vaccination is central, not only in our own country with a dose of three, but also for the world that has not even received a dose yet.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-30.ana.ud532e604	Let me first tell the representative Vervik Bollestad that if she goes into government.no, the corona situation lies as point two, so it's easy to click in, and we're going to update the situation there continuously. The representative made a very good point, and the representative knows what she's talking about, namely that training health professionals takes time, and that there's a stressful situation out there right now. Never knowing when you're free, having to stay on duty when the guard is over, and getting called in on duty when you're actually free, is demanding. We see what we recognize, and we take care of it. With regard to this with intensive capacity, I would like to come back to what I said in the statement, because if the intense places we have today are overburdened, we are in a critical situation. We must not get there, but then there can be extensive measures. This means that intensification capacity defines what needs to be done in society, with very wide-ranging consequences. If the intensive capacity is slightly higher, we have something more to go on. If it is lower, we need to take tougher measures. I believe this is a problem we have been dealing with over time. Measures were put in place to strengthen the intensive capacity following the swine flu and the lessons learned from it. I remember it from my own Council of State. It hasn't been done over the years, and we're paying a price for it, because it's not a quick action you can do, whether you spend oil money or not, it's educated people and capacity it's all about. The previous government started working on hundreds of new educational positions. It's on. Health regions have been given a mandate to address future needs. We'll follow that closely. The Corona Commission has been asked to assess the need for bed capacity and intensive hospital capacity – we need to be knowledge-based. In our budget, we also have more education positions for specialist nurses. The Health Personnel Commission, which we have now set up, is tasked with assessing measures to train, recruit and maintain. I would also say, in a situation where there is a shortage of professionals, it is important, what we have now done, to give retired professionals the opportunity to contribute without having their rights curtailed. It's counting on the margin out there. We're following this very closely. To the claim that advice has remained in place for many weeks without having been followed: the closest I come is the question of whether you should have had national prescriptions for oral binding or local opportunities for it. The evaluations by the professional authorities have been somewhat complex. We are concerned that municipalities have the opportunity to respond to the challenges of themselves. But in a situation where we have municipalities with almost zero infections, the measure is to say that everyone should use mouthbands in a wide range of situations, intervening for those municipalities that have no infection. There is a full possibility for the municipalities that are infected to take measures along the way. Now we have introduced this on the way into a Christmas shopping season where we go to shops and where we take transport, that we should use mouthbands as a national measure. It's proportionate, I think. It is tempting to comment on the posts of the representative, Mr Listhaug, who had a long list of what could have been done to prevent one and the other, and on shortcomings in the budget. She was responsible for eight years and decisive words about how the budgets and policies were. I'm leaving it, it's not really time to take that debate right now. We have a budget debate on Thursday. I'm glad. So to the international -- what's happening in the WTO, and many of which are busy. Norway is aware that the patent rules making it impossible to divide the recipes of vaccines and medicines need to be amended. We have said it clearly, and we are going to those negotiations to contribute to it. There is a dynamic at these meetings that requires the development of solutions that are widely used to trigger the division of competences needed to get vaccine production started. Breaking a patent and publishing the recipe does not mean that there will be vaccine production in a country without capacity; it depends on industry and professionals and researchers making up and contributing to it. That's why Norway's signal is that we're open to making a so-called "weaver" on this, as President Biden is now saying, a way to put pressure on us to find a solution, and that industry has to join in. There's also a distinction here between what's going on in order to get a recipe for making vaccines, which is a very complicated production, and making medicines, which are less complicated -- there we have the experience of the AIDS era. Norway has the habit of playing an important role in the WTO in providing forward-looking solutions. Our people travel to contribute to it, and we are open to grips here that make us get results, more vaccines to more, and more drugs to more.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-30.ana.ud532e629	The comment round has thus ended. The President will propose that the Prime Minister's statement on the status and further progress of the administration's handling of covid-19 be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
