ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e107	For the sake of infection prevention, the President will propose that the public gallery be closed even during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox Case No. 1 and 2 will be treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e140	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e149	Today, we are discussing the first big message for our maritime industry as a whole in 16 years. Through consultations within the Committee, the industry has clearly indicated their desire for a comprehensive and offensive new maritime policy. I believe that they will get through the decisions the majority in the Grand Duchy will vote for today. We have wanted to extend the scope of action to our new unit, Export Finance Norway. The Workers' Party is currently working with and is a majority in favour of a proposal for an extended mandate, in which they can contribute more to the financing of new export opportunities. We have gained inspiration from Sweden, where they can finance up industry that can be used for new export opportunities, for example: battery cell production. We have also wanted the mandate to export finance Norway to facilitate an increase in the company's ownership of projects, where that makes sense. We need to extend the building loan guarantee scheme even after 2021, and the Stortinget has asked the government to find schemes that contribute to green conversion. That's how we can stimulate the conditioning of old ships and get investments in Norwegian low- and zero-emission technology. We have asked the government to assess the top-level financing scheme and a system for environmentally friendly recycling of offshore ships and rigs. The industry shall also be stimulated by a State investment programme for scaling up maritime industry technologies. It shall contribute to creating new export opportunities and jobs and triggering private investment. These measures will increase activity and facilitate increased exports. The majority of the Committee considers that clear requirements and expectations for the maritime industry are important for achieving the climate objectives. The parts of the industry that are well advanced in meeting environmental requirements will be the winners in the future. Clear, realistic and temporal regulatory requirements for lower emissions, together with the Community setting up the mechanisms I mentioned above, will ensure that we trigger the potential for growth in the maritime industry. The Western Communication has also shown that maritime industry has the potential to double its value creation from today's 148 billion. kr. For the Workers' Party, it is obvious that Norwegian seafarers and their competence are the basis of the maritime industry. That is why we have subsidy schemes for seafarers, also called the net pay scheme, and therefore it has been obvious to the Workers' Party that Norwegian wage and working conditions must be required in Norwegian waters and on Norwegian seas. The entire committee has considered this issue to be so important that we awaited the party-combined Holmfjord committee before we gave up our position. The social partners have done a solid job, and we believe that the result is the basis for a principle decision today that Norwegian pay and working conditions should also apply at sea. We don't get a majority for that, but we get a majority for the points of agreement that the sample has come up with, and that's a good start. Since the competence of the same seafarers is important, the Committee has gathered to strengthen Markom and to ensure that educational institutions and the industry's continued influence are in Markom even if it is added to Diku. A majority strengthens MAROFF and will see Ocean Space Laboratories at NTNU in Trondheim realized. The majority are also in favour of a schoolship in the north, inspired by the good work of the schoolship Gann. Northern areas deserve special attention because maritime activity is increasing in the north. In particular, the aquaculture activities are those seeking colder seawater. Aquaculture is not just food production. There are many different maritime activities and advanced technologies. This activity believes the Workers' Party must create even greater ring-effects in the north. Today, when we decide to ask the government to ensure that the county income system is compensated for the extra cost of using low and zero emission technologies when they buy ferries and fast boats, we are speeding up the conversion of fast boats and ferries. It cuts emissions, and it creates business opportunities. We also oblige the government to come back to Stortinget with a national plan to make land and cargo flows and other green fuels available. I have to come back to the rest in a later article, but I am addressing the suggestions the Labour Party is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e172	The representative of Åsunn Lyngedal has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e177	We're dealing with today Report. St. 10 and Document 8:138 S in total. As the rapporteur for the representative proposal from Red, I would like to make some comments on this at the outset. When the Business Committee started working with Meldning. St. 10 of tomorrow's maritime industry, it was awaiting the conclusion of its work by the party-combined Holmfjord Committee. The selection should provide its assessment of the possibility of introducing Norwegian wage and working conditions into Norwegian waters and on Norwegian shores, and the prerequisites for this to be done. The report from the Holmfjord Committee was handed over to the Minister of Industry on 19 March this year. A total of five proposals are put forward in the Red House's proposal to ensure Norwegian salary and working conditions on cruises in Norwegian waters. Three of the proposals concern matters and issues that have been discussed in depth by the Holmfjord Committee, and where the sample also presents agreed solutions. A Joint Nutrition Committee therefore refers to its comments and proposals in the Inst. 338 S to Meld. Article 10 concerning the proposals 1 to 3 of Red document 8:138 S. As regards proposal No: 4 in document 8:138 S, refers the parties to their respective comments and proposals, as well as Decisions 690 and 691 concerning the consideration by the Stortinget of a proposal for a representative in February this year for the postponement of the requirement for zero emissions in the world heritage fjords from 2026. In proposal No 5 in the representative proposal from Red, the government is asked to make better provision for low-carbon tourism. The majority in the Committee also consider this to be important, and indicates that the government is facilitating it by working to improve train connections abroad, including night and night. The majority also indicate that provision is made for tourists to use public transport services on a regular basis for experiences during their stay in Norway. The county councils have made important contributions, including: through the concept of Travel like the locals in More and Romesdal and Westland. In the Communication on the Maritime Industry of tomorrow, the government defines three focus areas for its policy: promoting the development of climate-friendly and environmentally friendly shipping, supporting digitisation and automation, which increasingly characterise maritime industry, and ensuring the ability to convert and renew by building and enhancing maritime competence. There are good and proper priorities that will lead too far to elaborate in a short article. I will therefore spend the rest of my speaking time mentioning some moments in the committee position that are important and joyful from our point of view in the Christian People's Party. As I have already mentioned, the party-combined Holmfjord committee delivered its report to the Minister of Industry on 19 March. It was probably the few that would believe in advance that the sample would reach a broad consensus on its conclusions. The more important it is that this is actually the case. The selection concludes by recommending the introduction of Norwegian wage and working conditions in Norwegian waters, under given conditions, including for Norwegian sea passenger ships in direct competition with the Kystruten and for ships performing stationary activities. We in the Christian People's Party are pleased that a joint committee supports proposals asking the government to start work on introducing the requirements of the Norwegian pay and working conditions recommended by the Holmfjord Committee. At the same time, it is very important that a Joint Committee also ask the Government to start its work on following up the recommendations of the Joint Committee in the case of subsidy schemes for seafarers' employment. We then assume that an assessment of the financial aspects of any changes to the scheme would become part of the ordinary processes of the government budget and the revised national budget. We also consider it appropriate to pay tribute to the Progress Party, both for the initiative that led to the creation of the party-group, and for constructive negotiations on the conclusions of the sample and the governance signal to the government on the further management. I would also like to express my satisfaction on behalf of the Christian People's Party that an overall committee is asking the government to develop an equality strategy for the maritime industry. Maritime occupations on ships and fixed installations with long watch tours are currently some of the very few remaining areas of Norwegian business with an overwhelming overweight of male workers. Total industry is only 16 pst. by the employed women, and by the employees of the sea is only 7 pst. women. We in the Christian People's Party have no doubt that the rigid third division of maternity leave introduced in 2018, which the Christian People's Party as the only party voted against, has been directly counterproductive in promoting equality and increasing the share of women in maritime nutrition, especially on board ships. For us, it is therefore particularly gratifying that an overall committee supports a remark that the government should consider the maternity leave scheme in the maritime sector as part of the gender equality strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e205	As the poet said: "Everyone who came from a journey felt and looked about; everyone who went felt it at the last farewell glance. They felt where they went, that the happiness of the land was on board: our glory and our power have brought us white sail." Today we are discussing the first maritime communication of 16 years and at the same time a representative proposal from the Red Group. This industry has its own place in our history and in our present. Once it was the main currency source and export industry we had, and it still has a central place in today's value chains and a central place in the green shift. I'm going to use my post to talk about the maritime message. The proposal, which is from Red, I believe we have addressed comprehensively in connection with this communication and later in connection with the national transport plan, when it is being dealt with. The communication and government policy build up this central place in the green shift and in today's value chains. We're going to have a climate-friendly and environmentally friendly shipping, we're going to provide a digitisation of the industry, and we're going to develop Norwegian maritime competence further. Zero emission requirements and zero emission criteria are indicated here in public tenders and a priority for green shipping in the further commitment to research and competence. Here, priority is given to the digital conversion, industry 4.0 for the sea, if you like. Competence is at stake, and this central area has chosen to strengthen and underline the Committee. This is and will be a competence-based industry, with increasingly high- and peak technology-related elements. As in other parts of industry, there is now a very challenging market situation, especially for the shipbuilding and supply industries, and parts of the fleet are also under heavy pressure. We have therefore seen that in the last year the government has put forward a series of measures together with the Storting to help remedy that situation. We can point to yardsticks, loan and condemnation schemes for new, green fleet renewal, Norwegian language requirements for planned state investments and more. A survey of the situation in the yard industry has also been started. In addition, as a former representative mentioned, it is a diversity challenge and it has chosen to address it here, as in the notification of the allowances. The low proportion of female employees gives us challenges. We need a strategy to change it, because this industry needs to acquire competence from the whole field, not just half the team. Then we have to look at arrangements that are good on land, adapted to life at sea. A female sailor recently went out and stressed that titles as sailor and co-pilot were not an obstacle to recruiting for the profession. Nevertheless, I must allow myself to say I wonder if it is an advantage for the recruitment that girls who take this education end up as a man, even if only in employment. It can put some other thinking into it. I would also like to make some comments on what arises for this industry by being as politically exposed as it is. It places an extra responsibility on us. We all agree that the industry should have a special tax regime, that employees should have a special grant scheme, that projects should have public guarantees of loss risk, as other countries do, that the instrument should support fleet renewal and development technologically and in other ways, and in a bet on new marine industries, the state should play and play a major role, for example at Hywind Tampen. Overall, this represents a strong strengthening of the industry's business space, strong tripartite cooperation and strong public-private cooperation. It increases risk and competitiveness, and it helps to drive the transition. At the same time, this means that industry has become increasingly dependent on special schemes, government credit, grants and tax rebates. Proposals from the industry, e.g. follow-up increases this exposure, if adopted. So maybe someone thinks I'm worried about the business neutrality of it. I'm not. No, what I think is that this places an extra great responsibility on us to ensure that the framework conditions we draw up and adopt become long-term and safe for the industry. I am pleased with a maritime message that is now pointing forward both at tariffs, which is pointed out here, technologically, competently and environmentally – towards a stronger maritime industry. Let me end by hailing those who are in the industry on land and sea in these difficult times, with the poet Bjørnson's words again: «Hurry for them today, as danger under Norwegian flag! Hurray for the pilot, which they first met! Hurray for those who sail their fishing boat on the sea and fjord! Hurrah for everyone's pleasure: our best coast!'
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e237	Maritime industry is Norway's third largest industry after petroleum and seafood. But if we look at it historically, that's the basis for claiming that it's our most important industry. The very name ‘Norway’, ‘the road to the north’, was originally used for the carriage of ships along the Norwegian coast. Shipping made it possible to link the long-distance Norway with one country. And the construction of light, fast ships enabled the Vikings to both terrorize and trade with large parts of Europe. We are still among those who build the most advanced boats, have the most competent seafarers and have shipping companies that dare to invest in Norway, because we have stable framework conditions. Seafarers, shipping companies, shipyards and suppliers are all important elements of the Norwegian maritime cluster. The party of progress has always been proud of being the most seafaring party. That's why we've had the net pay system as our battle cause. In our reign it was strengthened and legalized. When we went out of government, this was some of the first government tried to rock by in the submission to the state budget for 2021, which we put all our weight in negotiating again. It's because we're the seafarers' party that we want a strong Norwegian flag. Ships flying the flag of Norway, NOR and NIS are essential for maintaining the number of Norwegian seafarers. Norwegian wage and working conditions in Norwegian waters and on Norwegian pedestal have been one of the most frequent policy issues in maritime industry in recent years. Nearly a year ago, there was a rather heated debate about this in this room. The attitude of the Progress Party at the time was that we cannot introduce something that we do not know the consequences of. Our goal was and are several Norwegian seafarers on board Norwegian boats. Therefore, we proposed to set up a sample, composed of the parties, inter alia. to look at how Norwegian pay and working conditions could be introduced without at the same time weakening the whole industry. If we had based that mandate the red-green ones put on the table, it would only have led to a further split nourishment. It was absolutely essential for us that employers – the shipping companies – also have to participate in this work. At that time, the red-greens chose to label us as opponents of the introduction of Norwegian pay and working conditions. That was wrong. It turns out today. For today, the Progress Party is agreeing to the introduction of Norwegian pay and working conditions. And not only that – we have a whole diet with ourselves, and we've got the government parties to introduce Norwegian pay and work conditions. I also thank the red-green for supporting our proposal. I take off my hat for the work the sample has done, and the agreement they have reached. It wasn't obvious, because the fronts have been steep. It knows everyone who knows maritime nutrition. However, the industry continues the good Norwegian tradition, that employers and employees sit around the table and reach agreement. Then there are some relationships that are still not quite in place. There are still some limitations to be made. I have full confidence that the parties will be able to do so, in cooperation with the minister and the ministry. The terms and conditions of employment on the base are still unclear, for the simple reason that Norwegian oil and gas were not part of the sample. I would like to encourage Norwegian oil and gas to sit down with the other parties to reach an agreement also for the socket. If this is the case that Norwegian oil and gas are not interested in reaching an agreement, then of course we have to look at other ways of finding a solution. It's got to be torn behind the mirror. I want to challenge the Minister of Industry on how she will follow this up in particular. The sample also reached an agreement to strengthen the net pay scheme. The Progress Party promotes proposals to follow up the consensus of the sample here too. Unfortunately, we do not get a majority for that, because neither the government parties nor the Workers' Party provide their support. I will come back to that in a later article. Finally, I would like to stress that maritime nutrition is in crisis, both because of oil price falls and corona. It is a milestone that the industry itself has come up with a solution that everyone can live with over time, and with varying number of large sizes. That is why I am very pleased that we have received the government parties and the red-green opposition on the Roman number decisions today. Now we have to calm the industry down to conclude the consensus. I am addressing those proposals of which the Progress Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e262	The representative Bengt Rune Strifeldt then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e267	I would like to start by thanking the case spokesman and the cooperation committee on the setting up of this matter. I think we have provided a very good and forward-looking setting that adds some important plural decisions. After listening in this matter, I thought, is it just the fuel that has meaning? It was about just what it was talking about. If that were the logic, it would have been as good with sailors as with motorized boats. But I believe in the setting has been able to underline what is happening to the green, what is happening to climate and new instruments of action for it, while stressing the fact that we have a great maritime industry in Norway, that we have the competence to solve tasks that people around the world need to solve. Then perhaps the most important thing that stands in the vote is a plural comment from the whole committee, which I think ‘It shall be a goal for the Norwegian maritime industry to be competitive in taking jobs and assignments across and under water throughout the world’. It's a very good sentence that I hope can be displayed as the goal of all the steps in this. For the Central Party, it is important to have a policy that balances the care of seafarers, to shipyards, to rail companies, to suppliers – that we see the maritime industry as a whole. That's where I think the government has a way to go. We build a lot of ferries in Norway – electric ferries, zero-emission ferries – but we don't build them in Norway, we build them in Turkey. When you choose to do so, you may not be liable for the EEA Agreement. As part of a crisis package, Stortinget offered money for the Marine Research Institute to buy a new ship and get work and activity in Norway. Where did the government place that assignment? In a yard in the Netherlands. It's the worst-black threshing policy in the world. For the Centerpartiet, the struggle for Norwegian wage and working conditions on a Norwegian base and in Norwegian waters has been very important. We've been in front of that policy. I'm very happy for what we have come today. The previous speaker was very concerned about the role of the Progress Party in this. The progress party has had an important role, but in this case they have behaved a bit like a motorless boat that had thrashed a tugboat to get in the right place. In this setting, too, they select the slightly more passive approach with the government party rather than joining with the rest of the opposition. There is something about the Progress Party as a supporting party that makes them afraid to move all the way out. In the case of the net pay scheme, we received in the fall a lesson in non-profit enterprise policy when the government in the midst of a crisis proposed major reductions in the net pay scheme. It got the Storting to clean up, it's important, but for the future, we have to have a law that ensures that the net pay system is stable, even if we have a government that is not good when it's good. An important task will be to make the maritime industry greener. It will be an important competitive advantage, and there must be a good use of public procurement. It will, if one wishes, also make Norwegian yards more competitive than today. It is therefore good that in the setting we have several suggestions to secure it. For the Central Party, the fight for Norwegian seafarers will be a very important part of the maritime policy. Without Norwegian seafarers, we do not have the basis for having a maritime nutrition. Then the knowledge and competence will be confused. This is where we have to start all the time, and it is therefore so important that when work takes place in Norway, whether it is on land or at sea, it is to be done under Norwegian wage and work conditions so that Norwegian labour force is competitive. This can be a non-measured crown for crowns. This is about a system that provides the basis for us to have a large maritime nourishment in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e291	I will first take the suggestions from SV as the last. Norway is in many ways the seashore, perhaps one of the world's leading ocean countries. We have the second longest coastline, we have a coastal culture built on the use of the sea, it's the sea that's built the country over thousands of years. That's why people live here, so people came here, and that's what's the foundation of our society – and without a mariner no ocean land. It is the use of the sea, whether for fishing or for maritime use, different uses of the sea, which is the basis. So the seafarer, the seafarer, is deciding for Norway's further journey. And they're being watered out today because they're being priced out when it comes to pay and work conditions. With this rear carpet, I have to say that I'm quite positively surprised – it's a little surprising to be able to say it from a party that is in deep opposition – over the setting we have here today. There are a lot of points where a collective opposition secures big bets. Despite the fact that the government is opposed, the opposition is gathering about very important and big stakes that we in SV believe are entirely decisive in order for us to get this done. This is what has been happening over the course of the year, it is a crisis, but for various reasons – whether it is paralysis or the government’s success – it is the opposition that is saving the measures in times of crisis. However, contrary to what they did in connection with different support packages in the Corona handling, the government has not even participated in the majority of decisions; they are outside most of the majority of the decisions. Here we find proposals such as using export finance actively for new export opportunities, here are proposals from the opposition to establish government investment programmes with different financial handles for shipyards and fleets. Here we can find, among other things: a special bet on the fishing fleet, which is not supported by the government. Here there are different measures to ensure that county councils can actually be able to invest in zero-emission transport, but where the government does not lift a finger. There are proposals for a national plan for zero-emission infrastructure, whether it is chargeable, hydrogen, ammonia or other green fuel. The government is outside it too. Not even a schoolship in North Norway will be able to stand behind the government. So it's the opposition, the plural, that secures these big stakes. I want to pay great tribute to the Progress Party for having such an offensive on this issue. And then, of course, I'm going to hang on to the Progress Party, because unless the policy is right. It is surprising that the Progress Party is not now taking the step, that they give Norwegian oil and gas a kind of veto right on the issue of whether to introduce Norwegian wages and working conditions at sea and at sea. An agreement cannot be established between the two parties. I believe the representative, Strifeldt, also stated that it is not what they put in it, but I would like to hear a little more about it. One cannot maintain unity in such a political matter. So here we are in a situation where Norwegian seafarers are watered down. These are the industries in which there is growth, but the number of Norwegian seafarers is at risk. If we cannot stop this development by introducing viable wage and working conditions, developments will continue. It will be a weakening of the marine people, the mariners, all those who have built this nation. This development must be reversed. So I'm very happy that the center-left opposition follows each other in many important fields. Let's hit them, for example. the principle of Norwegian pay and working conditions that it should be ensured. There are different bets on ports that we have been told about. The level of ambition of the sea wind we also kneeled in the proposals, which is decisive for the great green shift we're going through. Hydrogen bets, and that we link tilspunkssystem to different educational courses, are other important things. Then, of course, I am disappointed that there is no more support for SV's proposal for a zero-emission phase-in plan, etc., but I can now add that. I'm very happy with what we've been able to do – and it's been a failure in the government, not because of the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e310	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, then mentioned the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e316	The sea has fed Norway on the table, and many jobs have been created by the values for developing joint welfare for generations. This is as previous speakers have said, not least the last: we are a coastal nation. Yeah, it's not so many years ago in the big context that we all had highway 1 as the main roadway. It was hunting, it flourished, and there were many who participated. I think that development in the future is about seeing the space of opportunity, not necessarily as the representative of the Central Party, who would like to return to sailing hours. I think we have to have looked a little bit further forward than that. Everything wasn't necessarily better before, but I think we have to take this forward. The Corona situation has not least given people and businesses major challenges, and we need more green sustainable and profitable jobs. Maritime nutrition will be a significant contributor to it. Norway has always been a precursor country in the maritime industries. Climate-friendly and efficient solutions for shipping, fisheries and aquaculture are becoming more popular in the world and allow for significant and sustainable growth. This is an opportunity we have to seize, and we have to keep going with the green growth. I am very pleased that we in the Committee agreed on and now have an equality strategy for the maritime industries. I think that's absolutely necessary. For the Left, it has not been time to relax the climate targets of a corona-based economy, but we have to keep a firm track of the green policy, because it is also about the time that comes after the pandemic is over. If we are to achieve the climate goals, the CO 2 footprints of global food production need to be significantly reduced. The left wants Norwegian seafood to play a key role in making global food production more sustainable. There we have natural advantages, responsible management and advanced production that allow Norwegian fish and technology to satisfy increasing global demand for high-grade protein produced with low CO 2 images. The left also believes that both fisheries and aquaculture must be given a framework which ensures that the surplus is reinvested in the coastal industry. Therefore, it is important to invest in a strong ownership environment such as the ability to invest in environmental measures and the development of industry, and to dry down the need to impose stricter environmental requirements on the award of new concessions and their location. Environmental taxes allow pollution to become more expensive in the meantime, but cheaper to operate in a climate-friendly way. This also applies to the maritime industries. In large parts of business, therefore, there is a desire to increase the use of carbon pricing. It can trigger significant private investment in climate-friendly solutions that will be more profitable when emissions are priced more than at present. I am also largely satisfied with the setting and what is being adopted today, but I will have to stay a little while at a recording that the Progress Party has got a clear stamp on. I think the expert unit for public acquisitions is very good. I think it is good that there are such possibilities and solutions through both state and county municipalities to reduce 1) emissions and also 2) prices in the tendering regimes. There is no doubt that this is not necessarily what you do every day in the counties. I think there's competence in some of them, but at the same time, I think it's absolutely necessary to look at how to rig this in the future. Norway is not the most efficient and environmentally friendly shipping nation at present. The market for low- and zero-emission marine solutions will grow in the coming years, and climate-friendly solutions are among the main competitive advantages of Norwegian maritime industries in an area with high potential for further value creation and employment. Therefore, we must ensure that coastal transport is based more on hydrogen and electricity. We will be involved in and contribute to technological development by raising our eyes and ensuring that we export it to other countries while at the same time helping to reduce emissions. That is why we look forward to the government's announcement of long-term value creation from the Norwegian energy resources, which will include a hydrogen roadmap. And we want the government to come back to Stortinget with a national plan to improve the availability of charge current, hydrogen, ammonia and other green fuels.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e347	The maritime industry is important for Norway. It provides many jobs and creates great values. We have seafarers, shipyards, seas and fish that provide enormous opportunities for the future. The message we have received today does not guarantee the future of maritime nutrition. Here the government could secure more jobs in Norway with major ring-effects around shipyards, equipment suppliers and service providers. Unfortunately, they do not seize that opportunity. In the government, the theory of business neutrality and the passive state is currently in force. The government is sitting and watching, while jobs in the industry are disappearing out of the country and communities are getting confused. Take, for example: the ocean research boat for which the Stortinget granted money last summer. Here was the whole premise that the funds were going to create increased activity and employment in Norway. When the assignment went to the Netherlands instead, the government only made excuses. So while Norwegian shipyards are in crisis, the government just shifts responsibility away. But Red takes responsibility. We come up with our own proposal to avoid the kind of subsidy leakage, to stop subsidies leaks and to create activity and jobs in Norway. It'll be especially important in the future, when we're upgrading large parts of our shuttle to cut emissions. Then assignments must create activity and jobs for the Norwegian shipbuilding industry, not only in Poland, Turkey or South Korea. Rather, the government will ensure large profits for shipowners than ensure Norwegian wage and working conditions in Norwegian waters. For this reason, they have made over time changes to the NIS legislation, which is currently being used to detonate the boundaries of how to use foreign labour in Norwegian waters. Maritime trade unions have long demanded that the legislation be amended, but the government is waiting. Several investigations show that there is room for action to ensure Norwegian wage and working conditions in Norwegian waters, and the Joint Maritime Committee has presented its report and recommends that stricter requirements should be laid down for precisely Norwegian terms and conditions of pay and work on ships in Norwegian waters. The government needs to follow up the recommendations of the sample as soon as possible, we believe. Then the NRK has revealed that the Hurtigruten has exploited and also broken the NIS regulation in order to be able to use seafarers on what we should be able to call slave wages in Norwegian waters. Red will reverse the Government's changes to the NIS Regulation to ensure that Norwegian salary and working conditions apply to cruise ships in Norwegian waters. We will also give the municipalities greater freedom to say no to cruise ships with slave wages, and we will stop polluting cruise in Norwegian waters. Cruise traffic has very few ring-effects in Norway when compared with other forms of tourism, and one cruise ship in a Norwegian fjord emits about 300,000 tonnes of CO2 equivalent annually. In 2018, the Storting decided to sail cruise ships in Norwegian fjords as soon as technically possible and no later than 2026. Now the pandemic has led to a stop in cruise traffic. When it starts up again, we rarely have the opportunity to ensure a much more environmentally friendly cruise industry that also ensures Norwegian jobs in Norwegian waters. We can both reverse the changes to the NIS Code that opened for cruise in Norwegian waters with NIS-registered ships, and ensure a much more environmentally friendly cruise and tourist industry. Ensuring Norwegian wages in Norwegian waters is an important step on the way to getting rid of the fear culture that the NRK has recently revealed to Hurtigruten’s employees. With that, I take up Red's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e366	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e371	Norway is among the world’s leading and most innovative shipping nations, and the maritime industry provides jobs and activity along the coast. Right now, the maritime industry is in a difficult situation, where several people have been involved. The Korona crisis has created acute challenges, and as the rest of the business world is also going to shift the maritime industry through the green. In order to maintain the competitiveness of industry at a time of major change, it is important that framework conditions allow for conversion and innovation. This is why the government has been investing in maritime industry for eight years with active maritime policy. It's given results. In March, the NIS registry crossed 700 ships and the commercial fleet of NOR 917 ships, the highest level for both registers since the early 2000s. The number of Norwegian seafarers has remained stable at a high level and last year was 19600. We have now submitted a new maritime survey report, the first in 16 years. The notification shall help Norway to remain a leading maritime nation and shall provide a clear direction to maritime policy. Some key policy areas will remain in place. The Government will maintain framework conditions and instruments that provide equivalent conditions of competition for Norwegian companies. The Storting Communication sets out three main priorities for maritime policy. It is climate-friendly and environmentally friendly shipping, digitisation and further development of Norwegian maritime competence. The government will stimulate green solutions, including: by introducing zero-emission requirements and zero-emission criteria in public tenders for certain ship segments and by giving priority to green shipping in the further commitment to research and competence. The government will stimulate the development of a digital maritime sector, including: by prioritising digitisation in the further focus on research and competence and identifying ways to facilitate increased digitisation. The government will ensure that Norway continues to have high-quality maritime competences, including: through the continuation of the subsidy scheme for seafarers and the commitment to maritime competence of the MARKOM2020 project. In its examination of the case, the Economic and Social Committee has stressed that the industry is strongly influenced by the coronary apathy and that this leads to the need for an active maritime policy. Part of the maritime industry, in particular the yard industry, has been in a challenging market situation over a long period of time, which has become even more precarious in 2020 and 2021. The government has therefore presented a number of measures to help remedy the situation. Among other things, last year a yard package of 744 million was presented. kr, established loan and concession arrangements for green fleet renewal and introduced Norwegian language requirements in planned state investments and maintenance, and we continued the ship financing scheme and extended the building loan guarantee scheme to cover advance guarantees. The government has also started a survey of the situation in the yard industry. With regard to the Committee's proposal to set up an export unit for public acquisitions, I would like to point out that we already have a public sector body for public acquisitions in the Directorate of Administration and Financial Management. A new unit of experts must be seen in the context of the work done there and be added to existing offers. I would also like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the Maritime Committee of the Parties, which has made an overall recommendation on what measures can strengthen Norwegian maritime competence, employment and competitiveness. We'll now look carefully into the recommendation and follow it up in an appropriate way. I take note that the representative proposal under consideration today also includes proposals for the introduction of Norwegian pay and working conditions. The government is initially interested in hearing what the actors using maritime services think and how they will be affected. We have therefore sent out the sample report at the hearing. Norway shall continue to be a significant and proud maritime nation, and with this notification, the Government shall facilitate the achievement of this objective, with climate-friendly and environmentally friendly ships, highly developed digital solutions and experience-based competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e401	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e406	Menon has documented that maritime nutrition during one lost 6 pst. of their jobs last year, while the yards lost 10 pst. In particular, in the context of the revision of the national budget, the Stortinget decided to launch as a crisis response to activities in the yard industry the construction of a new ship for the Marine Research Institute. We know how it went. That mission ended with a Dutch shipyard. We know that a number of other countries that we have around us in the Nordic region – Germany – make a number of different demands in their tenders than Norway does. Among other things, we could have made stricter environmental requirements, we could have asked for apprentices, we could have said something about access to parts of service and training on ships and equipment, and maybe we could split up the acquisitions. Does the Council of State see that it could have been done in a slightly different way and secured work in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e413	We also presented this yard package knowing that this could happen precisely because we are in an international market. We are also obliged by the agreements we have, to let others compete for our tenders. Then we have taken some action to ensure that Norwegian shipyards can set up the competition well. In the yard package there were also other things than the ship that went to the Marine Research Institute. Paints, e.g. on the South is now built for the Defence and has good income from it. It is important for a country like ours, which has an open and export-oriented economy, to facilitate precisely that things can flow across borders. So we have to be careful. If we get too protectionist, it can also affect our own businesses. In this case, the best offer was from a Dutch shipyard, and that is why they received the tender.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e422	I will change the theme – to Norwegian pay and working conditions. Norway has five times more sea areas than we have land, and it is important for the Workers' Party that Norwegian wage and labour conditions are also at sea. In the opinion of the Committee, on page 11, a majority wrote, among others: consisting of the Government Party to the Left that they are engaged in the following: ‘Norwegian wage and working conditions will not result in Norwegian seafarers being put on land and will not weaken the competitiveness of the industry’. If you were to pull a parallel on land, it would be that we have too high wages, we have too good working conditions, and so we can't compete internationally. I could imagine hearing the Council of State's assessment: if she stops at that, does she think that if we have Norwegian pay and working conditions in Norwegian waters and on Norwegian soil, will it weaken the competitiveness of the maritime industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e434	After all, we now have Norwegian wage and working conditions on the base and in Norwegian waters. What I want to join in, as I see it, is that it is important that we continue to ensure that we have Norwegian seafarers, and that we have a competitive maritime nutrition. Fortunately, over the last few years, we've seen that we have two good records that we want to use. We see that we have a stable high level of the number of Norwegian seafarers registered. So here a good job is done by the industry itself, but then under good conditions given by government and big business. I believe that the job that has now been done by the party selection is a thorough and good work, and I must say that I am quite impressed that at the time they were made available, with some delays, they managed to reach agreement on as much as they did.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e439	I also want to commend the Holmfjord committee for a fantastic job and the thorough work they have done. The Norwegian salary and working conditions on the base were discussed in detail in the sample, and there is agreement in the sample on the objective. But it's not in the sample's recommendation. Some of the reasons are that Norwegian oil and gas have not been part of the sample, and there is disagreement about how this is to be implemented. The red-green opposition will short-circuit further work for the parties by overruning Norwegian oil and gas. It can damage the good and constructive cooperation climate that we now experience in the maritime industry. It will not be part of the Progress Party, nor will it challenge Norwegian oil and gas to contribute to reaching an agreement on Norwegian wage and working conditions on the base. What would the consequences be if the red-green proposal had a majority in this room? And how will the State Council follow up to seek agreement on Norwegian pay and working conditions on the base?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e444	As I said, and as the representative Strifeldt also says, there has been quite a thorough work in this sample. It wasn't Norwegian oil and gas part of it, and it's the members of Norwegian oil and gas that get the cost of changing pay terms. What I think is a pity is if you sort of cut short the democratic processes. Now there is a good dialogue among the parties, but also Norwegian oil and gas have been constructive in the dialogue so far. Now we have sent this out to the hearing. I'm concerned that we have to keep going on that track and let that process go in a proper way. And then we hope that we can figure something out. It is also important to remember that the vast majority of ships, including on the base, which we are talking about here, have Norwegian pay and working conditions, and the Swedish Shipowners' Association has also said in the sample what their objectives and intentions are. So I have good hope that it is possible to reach an agreement on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e454	It's a little hard to understand how a decision in the Storting, which is a popularly elected body, can short-circuit political processes. It stands out as a little bit strange. The demand for Norwegian wage and working conditions on a Norwegian base and in Norwegian waters has been central throughout this process and is what one has been after. One thing is the way to the goal, but it is true that the Left has traditionally not been the best friend of the maritime industry, shipping and seafarers, rather the opposite, among other things. through many years of resistance to the net pay scheme, for which I am now pleased that one is joining. My question is: does the Council of State support the principle that Norwegian wage and working conditions should apply on Norwegian soil and in Norwegian waters?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e463	Just to comment on some of the things that were taken up in the post before I answered the question: Now the representative Pollestad must not misunderstand me. I really believe that Stortinget has the opportunity to adopt Norwegian pay and working conditions on the base. But I think it would be a pity if those who have to pay the price for this were not to be heard properly. That's what we've said, that they too should be raised. I think it would be a shame, but I can see that the Storting has the opportunity to do so. Then there's this with the net pay system and the left's relationship to the maritime industry. On the contrary, I believe that the Left has fought for maritime nourishment. The net pay system is a debate that has taken place in our party. We don't have anything in our program now that we're against the net pay scheme. On the contrary, we have been in a government that has invested in maritime nutrition and raised net wages. With regard to Norwegian terms and conditions of pay and work on the base, I am concerned that the parties now have a good process, and I have good faith that there will be an agreement here.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e472	Earlier in the debate, we heard about the government's efforts for Dutch shipyards through the crisis package. So the state councils in the article warned against protectionism. But to me it stands out as very strange that giving a mission that is contained as part of a crisis package, to a Norwegian yard, is supposed to be protectionism. I can ask if there are examples of other countries that place crisis response in their neighbouring countries or in countries other than their own. But the situation of the yard industry is critical. We're waiting for a report on the situation here. He won't be here until 1 June. My question is: can we expect concrete measures in the revised budget to improve the critical situation in which Norwegian shipyards now live?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e479	With regard to the revised national budget, it is likely that the representative Pollestad will have to wait until it is presented and see what lies there. But we now have processes running on measures to help the yard. The condensation system is one of those where, if not for a very long time, the device of the offshore segment will become clear. There are considerable funds that the Storting has allocated to it. In addition, many shipyards have good use for these crisis packages we have presented. We also work with the scheme, which will soon be searchable, for support for the costs they have had for quarantine for many of the employees, which has also been a major expense, not least too many shipyards. It's the way in the world that when people can compete in our bids, we can compete in their bids. When you have a market that's bigger than yourself, it's also positive for us.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e488	It is fundamental for future Norwegian maritime nutrition that Norwegian seafarers and Norwegian additives are the backbone of the industry. The debate on Norwegian working and pay conditions at sea and on the ground is a long, long discussion that has been taking place for a long time. There have been discussions between the parties and anything strange. There have been many discussions here in Stortinget. It's a very familiar thing. Now we know the space for action. It's completely possible to decide this right here. No need to wait for a clarification. I didn't get the answer from the state council. The Council of State asked whether it was in agreement in principle that Norwegian wage and working conditions should also apply to sea and sea, i.e. whether it is consistent in principle. I have not recorded that a person has made a statement about it, while this is a well-known discussion that it is quite possible for the Stortinget and the Council of State to decide. Is there a consensus in principle?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e495	I fully agree with the representative of Knag Fylkesnes that this has been a discussion with Norwegian seafarers, and it has been important cross-political to ensure that Norwegian seafarers are an important part of our maritime industry. I registered when I had a meeting with the sample, that they quickly agreed that the net pay scheme should be strengthened. I am not surprised that it was the easiest thing to agree on, to put it that way, but it is a budgetary question to come back to in the various budgets that are being presented. As regards the issue of Norwegian pay and working conditions, the government has not taken a decision on this. We have just received this report. After all, the cancellation has postponed its handling of the case to include the report. The government has decided that we have sent this out to the hearing. We have. Now we get hearing statements. But I record that there is now good cooperation among the parties in this industry. It's a good dialogue. I expect the good dialogue to continue too, and I believe that they can come to an agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e502	With that, the line change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e509	When the government now provides a maritime message – the first in 16 years – one can of course ask: What does this mean for the maritime industry? The message follows previous strategies such as maritime strategy and action plan for green shipping, and from an energy and environmental perspective, it is essential that we look at a red thread and stick to the policy direction. Other strategies, messages and documents, such as climate communication and NTP, are also building up around what we are discussing here today. Healing is important. There are high values in the industry. There are also long lease lines, and at a time when we're in a paradigm shift, the debt of energy bearers in all industries that use fossil energy, stable and manageable frameworks and support policy direction entirely decisively. Clear policy objectives and the fact that public procurement also leads and sets environmental requirements for deliveries are important. And we do. This message underpins the direction that was assigned to us, and allows the industry to plan the long term. It also points out how we should correct our education, both for Norwegian seafarers and in terms of design and technical competence, because we have still a great deal to do before we switch to energy-efficient and fully renewable vessels. But – perhaps most importantly – the message also says something about how we're going to get there, what framework conditions we're going to apply, how we're rigging the tool, and what expectations we now have about the industry that should be an important piece in the green shift – important because nutrition, unlike, for example. Our electric car deployment, creates many green jobs along the coast. The value creation that the industry represents is enormous. We do not conceal that during the pandemic it has our tough times for our yard. They depend on foreign competence and foreign supplies. Nevertheless, we see this as a passing state, and the government has set up good measures that have supported the conversion to green technology during this period. So through the pandemic, these environments of competence have had the pace of innovation up and further gearing up a couple of dots in a demanding time. Therefore we now roll out speedboats, ferries, cargo ships and fishing boats, offshore vessels and workboats for farming with new Norwegian design and technology. The brothers Aa, Aker Yards, Bergen Yards, Ulstein Verft, Havyard Group, Kleben Maritime, Westcon, Oma – yes, there are several hundred yards and design environments that get the necessary confirmation that they are on the right track with their choice of concept for a green maritime nutrition through the message we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e524	There's a red thread going through Norway's history and what we've lived through at all times. From the Vikings conquered the world with the «State of the Art» Viking ships, slender and fast ships that lay safely in the water and that could travel halfway around the world – either on honorable missions or in what we might today have called unfortunate errands – through sailing hours and later steamships, up to recent history, the big fisheries and to this day with the oil and gas age, top modern ships that go on all the world's oceans, and a marine industry in strong growth. The common denominator – the red thread – is that we have always lived by the sea and the opportunities, challenges, joys and sorrows that the sea has given. If we're going to believe the leading scientists in the field, the ocean we're somehow going to live on for generations to come as well. Another common denominator is competence and knowledge. It would have been absolutely impossible to tame the sea and make the business of it if we hadn't at all had among the world's best professionals and infrastructures for research and development. A significant part of this infrastructure has been the ship model tank of SINTEF and its related NTNU laboratories. I think it must be among the most profitable R & D facilities that exist here to land and that large parts of the maritime industry have used for many decades. Six to seven years ago, the first long-term plan for research and higher education came. Then the Council of State appointed Nybø and I to the Church, Education and Research Committee. It was first confirmed that the Ocean Space Centre, the ship model tank 2.0, was to be realized, and the entire committee agreed. After that time, the project has been given honest mention in saying all the government documents, but still the spade is not put in the ground. The problem with that is not that SINTEF can't build its building, but that more and more missions and knowledge go to Singapore, South Korea, Brazil, China and other nations, which may be even more advanced in our shoes than we are. So with that, the invitation to the Minister of Industry for a quick final investment decision is given. Today, the Progress Party will be able to establish its own expert unit related to public acquisitions to assist municipalities, county councils and other public actors with the design of tender documents and relevant related issues. The goal is that as many jobs as possible should be on Norwegian hands on Norwegian soil, of course within our international obligations. This has been requested by a number of actors who have wanted to design their tenders in the right direction but who have not had the competence to do so. This unit is to be added outside the Oslo region, and we have expectations that the government will follow this up as soon as possible, more than just pointing to an offer that is there today, but no one knows about, and no user.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e535	I have to take this opportunity to thank the Committee for a good cooperation on maritime nutrition. I did not do that in my previous post. I heard in Strifeldt's post that the History of the Advance Party is that the origin of many of the proposals comes from that side. It's probably that of the 18 proposals that we can get through and get a majority for here today, 5 are from the Holmfjord committee, and 10 I definitely think I've written myself. But I am incredibly happy that we have a majority in favour of a very offensive maritime policy, where we are going to use the state instruments – which are used in countries around us – and I think that the situation we are facing in industrial policy in Europe, and to a large extent in the world, shows that the state has a very important role to play with business. In the message there was a study of the paint industry, and I regret that it was not there in the maritime message. The paint industry shows that they are very vulnerable. It is a paradox that both the public and the private are more and more building their ships elsewhere. Is that okay? Should we stop having shipyards in Norway? No, it is the whole of the maritime value chain that makes shipping companies, equipment providers and service providers, which are very important to Norway, dependent on our continuing competence to build ships. Then they are important, the decisions I made in my previous post, but it is also important that we look at our tenders. When government acquires for 600 billion kr, it becomes important that we see what the space for action is. I'm glad the committee has agreed that we will, and to an expert unit. Now the Workers' Party wanted that unit of experts not only to have competence in the law on public acquisitions, but also a little about what to ask for. What can a county council expect to get from a ferry and a speedboat? There are some smaller shipyards in Norway that are very good at building electric boats – Grovfjord Mechanical Workshop, an hour’s drive away from Narvik, producing excellent autonomous boats, an electric service boat goes here in Oslofjord as a port ship – but we have to dry to say that access to parts of our own country’s services can be important. The same applies to training on vessels and equipment. We have to make demands on apprentices. We must have requirements for pay and working conditions, HMS and tenders in our own language. Then there's environmental requirements, and obviously they're important, not just because we're going to convert green, but because it actually gives a competitive advantage to Norwegian shipyards.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e548	Things happen at the same time as we talk here, and one of the projects that's very exciting -- and I bring it up when it's said that there's no hydrogen thing doing -- is the Aurora project. A European example project, known as the Important Project of Common European Interest, has just been identified. It is planned at Mongstad outside Bergen, in cooperation between, among others. BKK, Air Liquide and Equinor, a good example where the cooperation also includes distribution to the Wilhelmsen «Topeka» ship to sail along the same coast, and distribution of hydrogen on the Stavanger-Bergen route. It's a huge project, and it's going to be exciting how we can help realize it, one of the projects that this message typically points to. There are a number of proposals here, a number of requests that are sent, which we do not necessarily vote for in this round. That doesn't mean we see red in all cases. Some of them we actually think are relatively reasonable, but at the same time some of them have a pretty high price. That means that for us many of these proposals will be proposals we will deal with in ordinary budgetary processes, because the treatment we have of the notification today is not a crisis package, but a treatment of long-term framework conditions for this industry and for the value chain. That means that these have to be treated in an ordinary way. I guess it's not possible to get under the chair that the parties that are going to cooperate on the budgets may not necessarily be the same parties that are currently behind the overall proposals. This means that for us this will in some cases be dealt with in the context of the revised national budget and in the context of the ordinary budgetary procedure. Of course, some of the proposals we do not agree on, and I would say that I do not have the same reality in saying that we do not lift a finger in terms of county councils or hydrogen bets, based on what is done with hydrogen bet and notified there, as well as the extra increased funds that county councils have received to bet on it. So it's an interesting suggestion that I can't push myself to mention. There is a private high school at sea. It's called Gann and it's a great offer, a huge offer, and I wish we had more of those offers. Here it is proposed to establish such a thing in North Norway. So I guess I could say, with a little smile around my mouth, that there's something special that a total red-green opposition uses a private high school as inspiration and wants to copy such a scheme further. It is the responsibility of the county councils, but this too should be dealt with in an ordinary budgetary process – without me thinking this is a bad proposal. In fact, I think it is a very good proposal, if we could once have realized it in several places in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e562	Norway is a leading shipping nation. The maritime sector is one of our most important industries, both in terms of employment and value added. Maritime transport is essential to address climate challenges, and Norway also has a leading role and opportunity to do so. The Norwegian cluster is complete. We have been in the forefront of the development of low-carbon technologies, which many have been involved in. It's about electric engines, LNG, that can be converted into biogas, and now we're also on the way to developing engines in green ammonia and green hydrogen. But it's important to take advantage of the space we have, and that's why I'm very pleased with the selection of the parties, which we've had, because it shows that we haven't been capable enough to take advantage of the space of action we have in the current legislation. I feel that the government might take a little too easy on the fact that the research ship of the Marine Research Institute is now being built in the Netherlands. We need to look at how other countries set up their support system to ensure that we get that competence and build up further in Norway, because we depend on the complete cluster and that we have activities in all areas. The same applies to the public ferries, which are largely built in Turkey. I also fear that the speedboats will be built in Turkey, with public support from us, and then it might be about how the contracts are split up. A good part of the contracts is so large that Norwegian yards cannot take them, but you split them up, they might. We also see that fishing boats are built in Denmark, and not least – which perhaps no one has been involved in so far – that investments in ships are long-term, and that fewer and fewer banks in Europe provide guarantees and support for shipbuilding. But DNB is one of them, and maintaining that DNB still has that mandate and that competence towards shipbuilding is important, because we see that Asia is positioned on the other side by making complete packages, where they both finance and build ships. So it's going to be outsourcing our technology, and that's not good. Sea wind is a great opportunity. But when we go into new areas, it is also crucial that governments and governments are in the forefront of harmonising the law, so that the different marine industries are treated equally, and that their peculiarities are also respected. It concerns fisheries, shipping and aquaculture, and perhaps in the future, the production of seaweed — that it's stuck together, so that we can develop an industry without creating the major conflicts. In conclusion, although we say very well about the maritime sector, it has almost no place in the current NTP. It's not good either.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e577	I want to start with a tribute to the sailor and the maritime industry by quoting Bjørnstar Bjørnson: ‘The Norwegian seafarer is a pervasive race; where vessels float, there he is the first man.’ That's actually a good perspective. The sea is our history, and the sea is our future, no doubt. That's where many of the future-oriented, climate-friendly, green solutions exist. We have a very good starting point, but we are in a very critical situation. Over 50 pst. employees of Norwegian shipyards may be absent during the next year. There are warning signals that the government should take much more seriously. Now we're fixing something up with good decisions in Stortinget that are related to the maritime communication, but it's important that it's followed up quickly, and that we now get solutions that help us get a positive in our future industry – our main future industry. It is completely incomprehensible to me that the government parties and the Progress Party today choose to vote for proposals that basically point out that we are going to use the Norwegian action room and the action room we have, to add assignments to the Norwegian shipyard. It's completely incomprehensible. Why not be part of it, especially the Advance Party, which is in opposition, and which is trying to appear as a maritime party? Speaking of it, a significant question relating to what is contained in this Communication has come from the Holmfjord Committee, a selection which is initially a bypass to establish some principles in the Storting, which for social democracy are absolutely essential, absolutely fundamental. It is that in Norway — whether by land or by water — Norwegian pay and working conditions are to apply. That principle is being put to the vote today. It is 20,000 who are employed or work on board Norwegian ships. 11 800 is linked to the grant scheme. 5,000 is offshore. My question is: why do we not establish the principle that Norwegian pay and working conditions are applicable? Why do we not establish the principle and decide that in Norwegian activity on a Norwegian base, Norwegian pay and working conditions should apply? And if you work on a platform, or if you work on a boat, it doesn't matter on the basis of that principle. But the majority, with the Progress Party at the head, will vote for it. It's completely incomprehensible. If they take words in their mouths saying that they are the seafarers' party, then they should vote in favour of the principles, and then they should make sure that a significant pressure is put on Norwegian wage and working conditions to apply on a Norwegian base and in Norwegian waters. Without it, one should not take such words in his mouth.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e593	It is correct, as the representative Lyngedal mentioned in his statement, that five of the majority decisions today come from the Holmfjord Committee. There could have been more. Unfortunately, the concrete proposals from the sample that strengthen the net pay scheme would not be included in the Labour Party. The subsidy scheme for employment of Norwegian seafarers, or the net pay scheme, as it is called in the public language, is the main single instrument that ensures that we have Norwegian seafarers. 20,000 seafarers fall under that scheme. The net pay system is critical for the maritime industry as a whole, and especially for seafarers. It is clear from the consensus of the party sample. It has been claimed that the scheme is not socially viable. Yes, measured in dollars and cents within a certain period of time, you can probably find that it's too expensive, just like an investment can be unprofitable in a short-term perspective, but here we have to think in the long term. Do we want to maintain Norwegian maritime jobs and maritime value creation in the long term? If yes, the net pay scheme should be seen as a State long-term investment in one of Norway's main industries and thus as a cost of the acquisition of income. It is gratifying that an entire committee agrees that the net pay system should be strengthened and that it should be made more predictable by lawmaking. But it's only the Center Party and the SV that support us in asking the government to follow up the sample's concrete recommendations. I am surprised that the Labour Party will not be specific about how the system should be strengthened. The working party, which is usually very loud on behalf of the seafarers, recedes for action that would really give the seafarers a boost. It does not promise well in view of any government change. It's not an unrealistic idea that the Workers' Party sits with the Ministry of Food after the election. Terje Aasland may become Minister of Industry. Then he owes to tell the seafarers what he wants to do with the net pay scheme. There are several concrete proposals here, but Aasland and the Labour Party do not want to support any of them. What does the Workers' Party want? Finally, I want to switch to something a little bit different: maritime education. The best education for seafarers is to be out on the sea, and here school ships play an important role. I've had a meeting with the management of the schoolship Gann. When you look at the results of the actual pass, all the students have completed and passed the last two years. Compared to similar schools on land, which have a significantly lower implementation rate, these are amazing results, and I believe this is an offer that must also be offered in other parts of the country. That's why I'm very happy that the majority of people are asking the government to look at the possibility of establishing a schoolship in Northern Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e606	I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to say something about the efforts made in this selection, for that is all reason to give credit for it. At the same time, this work has not occurred in a vacuum. After all, it has been influenced by political processes that have gone, and the fact that there are major elections to the fall may have had some effect. When we see the setting today, the follow-up will also be affected by the fall-up option, and it is good to know that one has a choice. I am also pleased that the Council of State actually confirms the freedom which the Stortinget has to make this decision, if any. Of course, Norwegian oil and gas are to be involved, but for the Central Party it is not an alternative to conclude that no, it is too expensive for the oil companies to have Norwegian wage and working conditions, so let us do it. We want to establish the principle. We would like to have dialogue on the specific design, but we have to establish the principle. In the case of strengthening the net pay arrangements, the Centre Party agrees with the Progress Party and SV in that respect. If it was the representative of Aasland who becomes Minister of Industry after the election, I can reassure the Advance Party that he will not have as many cat-like partners as the current government has. When it comes to proposal XVII, to sort out a schoolship in North Norway, I record the concerns of the representative Nilsen from the Right. There is no reason for that concern to be serious, because this proposal has a majority. It's quite special that the Right is going against finding out how to establish a schoolship in North Norway. It should be noted to the voters in North Norway that their representatives in North Norway are actually voting against proposal XVII today. But I'm very happy that the proposal gets multiples, because it's a very good offer, and that's something that works. Then we should do more of that. Otherwise, the centre party will vote for proposal No. 20, the loose proposal of the Workers' Party. We have understood that there is much of the same problem as the Red's proposal on the same theme – I'm a little uncertain about the proposal number there – but we think that the loose proposal that the Labour Party has made best prevents the running and use of NIS ships in Norwegian waters through various creative structures. So I hope that proposal will also have multiples today, and I am very happy that the Committee's plurality has gathered so many decisions in this important matter, for this important industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e617	It was the representative of Aasland who made me take the floor, because there is an impression here that the Storting today does not follow the recommendation and recommendation of the sample, which both the employer side and the employee side agree with. That's not right. The entire Committee today concludes on four proposals dealing with Norwegian wage and working conditions in Norway and Norwegian waters. It can be done, among other things: to impose requirements on Norwegian pay and working conditions for the carriage of goods or passengers between Norwegian ports, bounded on ships engaged on international voyages, to the effect that the Norwegian Government is asking for the introduction of requirements on Norwegian pay and working conditions for passenger ships in Norwegian waters which are in direct competition with the coast route, as well as on cruises, Norwegian pay and working conditions for ships performing stationary activities in Norwegian waters, including hotel ships, and Norwegian pay and working conditions for ships serving new marine industries in Norwegian waters. After all, there are seven-mile steps towards what has been agreed upon by an ever-increasing number and which the social partners have now agreed on. That's exactly what we're following up, point seven in the sample setting, which concerns those recommendations. But there's nothing about Norwegian socket, because there's no agreement yet, and the reason why you don't agree is that those who are most affected by it, Norwegian oil and gas, have not been sitting around the table. There will be a new practice on the Storting to start charging costs to a party that has not been given the opportunity to comment, who has not had the opportunity to sit around that table, as the other parties have had the opportunity. Imagine that this was the opposite, that one should have incurred costs on the employee's side without the employee's side being heard. It had become rhyme-rich. But you do the exact same thing, just with the opposite sign. What the selection says about the socket is in point eleven. It says: ‘At the request of the chairman of the sample, separate discussions have been held between the three maritime organisations, LO and the Norwegian Shipowners’ Association in view of reaching agreement on a scheme for ships involved in offshore activities on Norwegian pedestal. [[NR]] These parties have agreed that the issue of pay and working conditions can be regulated by an agreement between the parties. For an agreement to act as an alternative to legislation, it is essential that the operator side represented by Norsk Oil and Gass is also part of the agreement. [[NOROG]] Norog has not been a member of the sample, but discussions have been conducted with NOROG with a view to obtaining their agreement to become a party to such an agreement.» That work is going to continue, and we both trust and believe that those parties will agree. But to unilaterally determine this in the Storting without them being heard, we don't agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e637	I've been sitting and hearing a little and had really not thought to say so much, but I think it's very important that someone who at least takes the ferry almost every day when you're home comes up. The point of getting a schoolship to North Norway I think is very important. If we do, I think it can help to strengthen and get more employees in the fishing boats – and not just in fishing boats, but in all other boats that we need. When I grew up, it was quite common to go to sea and take a job. You would like to go away for a year and get a lot of the education while you were at sea. Some were on school ships first and became good people. In the fishing industry, it's often like getting a job there, you train at the same time as you work. The best teachers are those who are on board the boats, and who have experienced how things should be done. I guess there's a few of the people sitting in this hall who know how to put a yarn in the ocean and get it up full of fish. You get this lesson when you're out on the ocean, you learn about streams and all that. I think it is very strange that we have come in such a situation that we almost do not produce boats even in Norway. In the past, we had both the climber and Rognan who delivered fantastic good boats. We recently heard that the state was involved in getting a marine research vessel built abroad. We need more production in Norway. We're doing it like this now that fishing boats are being built, for example. in Poland, boats we could have built in Norway and maintained the good skills we have in those areas. It is clear that the fishing fleet must also be renewed, as other fleets must. Then we might be able to use the skills we have today. In order to achieve this, it was about tenders, that one has to do it so that it is possible for Norwegian people to build in Norway. It's a task the state has to be able to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e650	First and foremost to the representative, Mr Strifeldt, who is uncertain about what the Workers' Party believes about the net pay system and the reimbursement system: I can guarantee that when the principle of Norwegian pay and working conditions is adopted in Stortinget, it is quite natural that one should follow up with the concrete decisions on strengthening the net pay scheme in the sample. The two things are a little interconnected, that's what the Progress Party is not proposing. When introducing a principle of Norwegian pay and working conditions, a strengthening of the net pay system can be done in the manner proposed by the sample. It's a whole thing. When one does not include Norwegian pedestal, and the representative Sivert Bjørnstad tries to make it sound like we say that the sample has not followed up: yes, the sample has followed up, but it is not enough to introduce a principle of Norwegian pay and working conditions on Norwegian pedestal and Norwegian waters. The same representative tries to make it appear that there is something new to state that Norwegian pay and working conditions apply. In all other Norwegian working lives, why should this not apply in Norwegian and Norwegian waters? What the representative of Bjørnstad actually does from this pulpit is to give Norwegian oil and gas – the employers – a right of veto as regards the provision of Norwegian pay and working conditions on Norwegian pedestals in relation to the activity taking place. It is the true face of the Progress Party: the right of employers to veto the introduction of Norwegian pay and working conditions. It's completely incomprehensible, completely incomprehensible. The principle is important, but unfortunately it is not established here today. I think it's an extraordinary shame that the Storting doesn't now use the golden opportunity that is, to establish exactly this. This applies to all land-based work, but as soon as you're out in the water, it's not going to apply, and especially not to seafarers. It's completely incomprehensible. With regard to the solution of the proposal of the Workers' Party today, which is that there is no permission to carry cargo or passengers between Norwegian ports or to set a regular route with passengers between Norwegian and foreign ports for ships registered in the Norwegian international ship register, we can also see who is voting for it. Because it is also about strengthening the role and situation of Norwegian seafarers. Then we'll see if it gets a majority, or if it gets down, for example. by the Party of Advancement.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e659	Norwegian maritime industry is crucial for job creation and value creation throughout Norway. There are hardly any municipalities in Norway where both enterprises and workers are not found that depend entirely on the Norwegian maritime industry. Norwegian seafarers, Norwegian shipping companies and Norwegian shipyards are a central part of Norwegian history, and it is a central part of Norway today. We have to make sure that there is also a very central part of Norway in the future. Then it is important that, as elected representatives, we provide framework conditions and ensure that we have political will that takes care of the jobs that take care of the enterprises and that take care of a world-leading environment that we have in Norway for the future. The situation, not least during the pandemic now, is dramatic for important parts of Norwegian maritime industry. I am pleased that the Progress Party in the vote is so clear that the policy on which they have participated as a supporting party to today's government is not enough to ensure Norwegian maritime nutrition. More powerful measures are needed to ensure jobs and value creation. It is fine, and the Centre Party also agrees that we should set up expert units for public acquisitions, that a room for action should be explored in the EEA Agreement. But at the end of the day, it's about political will. I assume that the government parties also agree that there is competence in the marine research institute for public acquisitions and that there is competence in the department responsible for the marine research institute. Nevertheless, crisis response is at the heart of a pandemic in the Netherlands rather than strengthening Norwegian maritime industry. That is why we need to ensure that we learn from what other countries do, and make demands in terms of both services, training and pay and working conditions. So, for the debate that is going on here, about taking care of and breaking down the principle of Norwegian pay and working conditions. Is it true that the Progress Party today is unable to respond to their support for that principle? That's the conclusion of their vote today, and it's something to send home to the seafarers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e672	It's been an interesting debate. Maritime nutrition is central to Norway, and here it is a raging development, so it is for us politicians to hang on to. If the industry really wants to take some seven-mile step forward, it needs to focus on the wise minds. Then it must recruit from all the inhabitants, both women and men. We have heard earlier today that it is only 16 pst. women in the industry, and at sea there are only 7 pst. The industry needs a level playing field, and that's why I'm very happy that we're taking the lead in creating a strategy. We in the Right want this strategy to help recruit more women, and we also want to highlight important issues such as pay differentials and leave laws, and last but not least, sexual harassment. In 2018, NTNU had an eye-catching survey of sexual harassment in the industry, and it appears to be a major problem. We need to go into this, and we also want to challenge the industry on what they're doing to improve the situation. So we know that some actors have taken action. Odvjell SE has realised that the lack of gender balance in the industry is a problem and has created a separate strategy, where they say that by 2030 there will be 30 pst. women at all levels of the holding. Maritime nutrition is our future industry, and the future is diverse. Several should do as Odfjell SE and put equality on the agenda. And then it's also that equality pays off.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e685	The representative Sivert Bjørnstad has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e691	It is clear that some sore toes were bored here earlier. For us, this is not about giving employers a right to veto in negotiations. For us, it is also about giving the employer’s side the opportunity to participate in the same conversations as the employee’s side, and giving them the opportunity to have a place around the table. I thought it was pretty fundamental in our model, that everyone has the opportunity to say their own. For us, it's not the principle that means the most, which means the most, is that we find a solution that stands out over time. If the principle is so important to Aasland and his party traps, why didn't you do something about it when you had the opportunity? It must be an enormous paradox for Aasland and the rest of the Workers' Party that the decisions we are making today take place in a great deal with a bourgeois majority, a non-socialist majority. We're the ones who make these changes. The Workers' Party has not done so, and they have not tried it before.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e698	Equality is very much in agreement, and a consensus committee is some that we need to establish a strategy with a range of equality measures for this industry. All marine feeders tend to be very dominated by men, and it's a very heavy field in general – everything we have of different marine nutrients. There's a point ahead of you to change it. We are dealing with a quota notification last year, where one was also in agreement to establish a strategy for equality before fishing. We are quite a few of them about that. What surprises me is that it is this government party that almost invariably focuses on in this discussion. Here we all have some. This is a very important field, but if this is the only government party that has to be involved in such a big issue as the maritime message, it says a lot. Here are many other important issues, and as I said in my main post, it's once again the opposition that manages a business area in crisis with concrete, forward-looking measures. The government party did not even bother to support the proposals for decisions that one saw there were solid multiples for. It says a lot about this debate that the government parties are unable to look forward, with one important exception, and that is in the equality field, which we are all a few about, collusive, in this Chamber. So to the question of the choice of the Progress Party not to support the principle that Norwegian salary and working conditions should be introduced at sea and at sea: The point with the selection was not if one were to introduce this, at least not from the SV's perspective. That was how it was to be implemented and introduced into Norwegian terms and conditions of pay at sea and at sea. The principle that there should be the same conditions on the sea and land, we believe that there should be a future for Norwegian seafarers. But it turns out that the Progress Party has not had it as a starting point. For them, there has been a question of whether there should be Norwegian working conditions at sea. So that's an open question for them. Then a sudden Norwegian oil and gas also play an important role, because if they say no, what does the Progress Party do? They didn't have clear answers to Stortinget. So they're left as the party where it's unclear what they actually think are the most important issues for Norwegian seafarers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e713	I noticed that the representative Bjørnstad from the Progress Party was just in the pulpit and stated that the principle of Norwegian pay and working conditions was not really that important. It's a pretty incredible statement from a party that says they'll be the sailors' party. It may be interesting to ask those who work on oil platforms, offshore vessels or other ships at sea whether they are not so concerned with the principle of Norwegian pay and working conditions. Of course, it is essential that we, as elected representatives of the national parliament of the country, state that a Norwegian-Norwegian-Norwegian-Norwegian-Norwegian sea basin should apply a principle of Norwegian wage and working conditions in the same way as in the rest of Norway. It was just supposed to be missing. The representative Bjørnstad spoke about what happened ten, fifteen or twenty years ago. Yes, fortunately, the world is moving forward. Now we are in 2021, and that is what the Progress Party is voting in this matter, which is crucial for the kind of framework conditions that will ensure Norwegian seafarers in the future. I fully agree with the representative of Aasland, who was in the chair here instead, saying that there is a close link between the principle of Norwegian pay and working conditions and what is going on strengthening the net pay system, and that that is what involves a coherent policy. In this setting, there are two parties which follow up precisely that context, namely the Centre Party and the SV, which also propose that one should ensure that the substance of the net pay scheme is legalised. Unfortunately, that proposal does not get the majority here today. Another proposal that does not receive a majority, and which would have been very important in a crisis period for Norwegian maritime industry, is to state that a government should put forward a strategy to ensure that public construction tasks in the Norwegian maritime sector are as close as possible to Norwegian shipyards – that it not only becomes a festival speaker, but that it becomes a clear order, a clear work order, so that it ends what we see today, that too many tasks are being carried out by ports in the Netherlands, such as the marine research vessel, or by ports in Poland or Turkey. They have completely different places from ours, which have some of the greatest competence in the world, and which can contribute to jobs and value creation in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e724	The representative of Terje Aasland has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e729	We're in the middle of a paycheck. Consider whether the central issue between the payroll management parties, for all activities around Norway, would have been whether there were Norwegian pay and working conditions in force. That's what the Progress Party really says must be for the parties. It's a total misunderstanding of how the systems must be. There are general principles that must apply, and then the parties must discuss how to meet them, how to set the standard for it, and how to distribute the crowns. It's up to the parties. However, when the Progress Party now refuses and finally chooses not to vote in favour of the principle of Norwegian wage and working conditions on a Norwegian base and in Norwegian waters and leaves that decision entirely to Norwegian oil and gas, they have in principle conferred on them a veto right which Norwegian employers should not have against Norwegian workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e734	The representative Bengt Rune Strifeldt has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e739	As the representative of Aasland was inside, we're in the middle of a paycheck. I wonder if one of the parties had not been invited to the negotiating table and had concluded in this room with a solution that not all the parties had agreed to design. We want a good cooperation to find the best solutions for Norwegian base, and then we have to invite Norwegian oil and gas into the discussions. I have great faith that the Council of State has received signals to follow up, and that we are then looking to find the best solutions for the base that benefits the entire maritime cluster.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e744	The representative Tom-Christer Nilsen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e749	I'm reluctant to throw myself into the ring between the slugs from the left and the Progress Party, but will only be allowed to say that as I experience the decisions we're making here today, at least we haven't given any veto rights to Norwegian oil and gas in any way. As I experience it, we are involved in a process towards Norwegian wage and working conditions and tariff conditions on a Norwegian base, which is in practice the same as the prevailing situation today, because most of them are in the NOR register. That's what I'm into. Then I'll warn you not to put intentions into what you vote for, and look at what you vote for, and the intentions you put in it. At least there I feel that we haven't given any veto rights in any way. But I feel that we are waiting until the negotiations are over, before we go in and out of control.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e756	The representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik has spoken the word twice before and gets the word to a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e761	What we are inviting Stortinget to decide today is to state that the principle of Norwegian pay and working conditions applies on the base and in Norwegian waters. That is the principle of the majority unfortunately voting. Of course, both employee and employer organisations should be included in how this is to be done. What makes sense is that, as elected representatives, we make sure that the framework is laid down and that Norwegian pay and working conditions apply, and that both the parties and the government are to sit down and find good solutions to how this is to be implemented. The alternative is that the principle may not be implemented because there are some of those involved in the process who do not agree with it. Today, there is an opportunity to establish the principle, and that is what a button is pressed in the vote, which will be decisive.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e771	No more people have asked for the word on the matter. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e788	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes per party group and 3 minutes per government member. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e795	Agriculture is experiencing major challenges in obtaining labour from abroad. The reason is, as you know, the protection of infection and the need to have a strict control over the number of people crossing the border. As a result, far fewer than 18 000 guest workers who usually come to Norway may be able to enter the country. The proposal for a representative to be considered now concerns measures for summer jobs for young people in agriculture. Now it is important to recruit as much Norwegian labour as possible, and the government is working intensively to do so. The Government has taken seven important steps to assist agriculture with labour: Anyone who has a daily allowance and takes a job in agriculture now only has to report half of the hours. In this way it pays for young people and others to work in agriculture. It's set at 140 million. Dr for summer work for young people under 30 years of age at Nav, so that farmers can now turn to Nav and receive salary subsidies, including the possibility of mentoring, to hire young people. In the county municipality, farmers may apply for so-called bio-funds for internal training in the establishment. Agriculture is the only industry that has had its own quota system to collect labour from abroad, and many have applied to the Directorate of Agriculture for it. We realize that the industry is not doing 100 pst. without non-resident labour force. We also understand that the situation creates extra work and concerns for the farmers. Therefore, the government has ensured that farmers should not bear this risk alone and has continued the scheme from last year with crop damage compensation based on the lack of labour. Foreign workers residing in the country have been granted an extension of their residence permit and persons from third countries have also been renewed their residence permit. A closer dialogue between Nav and the industry has also been established to find Norwegian labour force. These are solid measures that together will try to address the challenges. Nevertheless, it is still the farmers who must stand in this, and I can only imagine the concerns the individual farmer must experience. Then we must not forget the situation we are in. We have to be strict on entry – which I also know the opposition agrees with.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e828	Our youth must have work experience. But numbers from the SSB show that only half of the 17-year-olds in the country get summer jobs as usual, and the most eye-catching thing is that who gets the jobs is socially and class-distinctioned. Those with parents with high incomes and a large business network are found to have far more access to work experience as well. This increases systematic social disparities in Norway. The Labour Party has pointed out from the very beginning of this crisis that when there is an industry that needs several thousand hands in work quickly, and we have many thousands of young people who deserve work experience, it must obviously be the responsibility of the Stortinge to link business with youth. As Angell Gimse said, there are 18,000 that are needed, but there are still very many thousands that are not yet recruited. On the calendar we have now come out well in April. It's urgent. That's why the Workers' Party says as clearly as it can say from: now we have to get out and start the practical work properly. Then it's no use with seven adventure points from Angell Gimse. This is about getting the job done. To the NRK 23 February, Minister of Labour Torbjørn Røe Isaksen said: Nav must be on the field, and I think it is good – it is actually a good proposal from the Workers' Party. Today, the right party of the Red Isaksen is voting down the Labour Party's proposal. There must obviously be some reasons for that, and there is great resistance to taking in youth. Last week it was, among other things, a forest owner from the stock company Stangeskovene who went out and said: The inexperienced Norwegian youth is not fast enough, one who can work, makes it faster. Yes, that's absolutely right, but that's the way it is in all parts of our working life. We could say the same about a youth who's going to scan goods at Kiwi, or one who's going to serve at the restaurant, or the youth who's going to help with the care and care of the elderly in the summer – they'd all be a little late to scan goods, to serve, and to provide care and care. That's why it's youth's turn, and now we have to start recruiting students and students in schools and places of study.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e841	Will the representative address the proposal of the Labour Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e846	Yes, I will, with joy. I hope it gets majority!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e851	Then the representative of Nils Kristian Sandtrøen has drawn up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e856	I have seen in the morning hours today that there has been a 'battle' between Sandrøen and Bollestad in the media, and that the legitimacy of this debate is largely about how much you yourself have had summer jobs in agriculture. We, with a long advance high-snow and allergy to horses, cannot boast of that kind of job from the past, but hopefully we can still have an opinion on this matter. With regard to the concrete proposal from the Labour Party, we do not support it, and the case-rapporteur, Guro Angell Gimse, has given many good arguments for it. There is already a scheme through the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and Nav to provide 2000 young people with summer work. In addition, BIO funds through county municipalities have increased sharply in recent years. However, we are concerned that fewer and fewer young people take or get a summer job – it is probably a combination of take and get – but we believe that the main responsibility for providing workers for the summer is the sole proprietors, including the farmers. We're also concerned that the capacity of Nav is blown up, and that imposing even more tasks on them at the end of a crisis doesn't think we're fooled. Then we're glad that a majority has come together to get a scheme of tree planting grants. They can actually be planted instead of discarded. It was also a system that was available last year and that gave good results. This is a good example of what we can call public-private cooperation that benefits the entire community, at a time when it is absolutely necessary to get those trees on the ground.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e867	The centre party supports the proposals that have been put forward, but I think it is important to put this into context. Now we have an acute phase where we need to work quickly. There's a pretty desperate situation in parts of the green food. There's probably not a lot of solution there, but it has a slightly longer perspective. It is also worth noting that although there was a war of strawberries in the nations today, the proposal on agricultural labour is a bit more extensive than the berry type that the Council of State and the Sandtroe focused on today. Then it's the acute phase. I think that the government has to follow up on the pathological requirements, and I expect a stretch to meet and find good solutions. On the other hand, one has the longer-term solutions. We have too much foreign labour in Norwegian agriculture. We need to make it more attractive for Norwegian labour input into agriculture. It is about education, it is about status, it is about income, and it is about wages, etc. Nor is it what this proposal solves. This proposal is good because it is a start to work to get Norwegian youth to take summer jobs in agriculture. So, of course, we support it. What might be just as good is that we had 30 million threes that were in danger of going to the game. A number in the Committee have been able to gather, the Labour Party, SV, the Centre Party and the Progress Party, to say that we should have a pre-arrangement system in place to get these three into the Earth. That is a good policy for the climate. There are good policies for future value creation, and there are good policies to conserve resources. So it will always be that someone thinks this isn't good enough, but I think it's better than nothing, and it's an important contribution. It is also a contribution that the industry itself has wanted, so we expect the government to follow up quickly. Based on the symptoms and the diagnosis that the representative Sivert Bjørnstad puts on himself from the talking chair, I cannot see that there is anything in the way that he engages in forest planting towards the summer. He is certainly cordially welcome to take on that kind of task.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e880	I support what the case rapporteur said in view of the arrangements that apply. It can also be noted that today’s Address Paper states that SpareBank 1 is contributing to a salary subsidy of SEK 7 000 – for young people – so there is an opportunity for more people to contribute in this way. Much of the debate has been about forest planting. I was also told the witness to the representative, Bjørnstad, whom I thought was interesting. So it's a bit random that the undersigned are also forest owners, so it's mostly just to take a trip over the fjord for young Sivert Bjørnstad, so he'll have the opportunity to plant forest there. It's quite possible in terms of birch and snooze. I have to say that my eye looked down at the comments of the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party, and I stayed a bit with them. I don't know if they've got the signal before, or if it's sucked by their own chest. I think at least it's pretty interesting that one should extend the plant season out in July. With my level of knowledge, etc. I know that July is basically an extremely bad month to plant in. It is dry, the plants dry out, and in addition have a lot of grass and calcareous. Then it's clear that they think the most about the nurseries -- being able to sell more plants -- but I think this is a very bad remark. If they had written that they opened for harvesting, I would have understood it more fully. I wonder a little at the level of knowledge when one wants to plant more forest in what is the great drought month. It means in plain text that the plants that are being set up are drying out. I don't know if it was at all thought of it, or if this was just to get the plants out. I hope that when a plant forest, it is to get new forest, to bind CO2, and of course because it is the highest in 70–80 years. It's at least my moustache when I'm myself out in the woods and planting forests.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e891	Like many of my co-representatives present now, I followed the spontaneous questioning session yesterday. There was the same issue up to the debate, and I must say that I was later quite amazed at how strongly rhetoric was used. When, for example, the representative Sandtrøen Compared this year's strawberry harvest with the repatriation of Finnmark, I thought, for my part, it was scurried a little – not least after we visited South Island earlier in the period and heard about the drama that spread there the last winter of war. I also have to say that I am surprised that the representative Sandtrøen continues that rhetoric from the pulpit today and talks about ‘eventful points’ that will help Norwegian agriculture through the crisis. The Minister for Agriculture and Food has been forward-looking and has ensured that it has already been clarified several months ago that the crop damage scheme will also apply this year, for those who are unable to get the crops into the house. I have to say it is quite strange to hear that a representative from the Workers' Party calls Nav's actions to help young people who are struggling to enter the labour market, to ‘adventure points’. These schemes are precisely there to give these young people a chance to have seasonal work in agriculture. Finally, I just want to stress that the intentions of this proposal are good. But the representative Guro Angell Gimse did very well about the different arrangements to help Norwegian farmers in goals. So I want to remind you that this year's lofot season is coming to an end. There was a great deal of concern in the fishing industry as to whether one was going to manage to wind up the season and get sufficient labour, but one has been positively surprised that there were actually a lot more Norwegian youths who joined the service. The season's been fine. The fish has been handled, and one has been able to get to the goal. In fact, I dare to be optimistic also on behalf of agriculture. I think Norwegian youth this year sees an opportunity to get a summer job. Let us also remember that the non-resident workers who cannot now enter the country to help Norwegian farmers have received training from their employers without any subsidies.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e907	In agriculture, seasonal workers, especially in the green sector, are usually used. This is not particularly true for Norway. This really applies to the whole of Europe and also to other parts of the world. I have had many meetings with the industry and received many recordings from individual farmers through the pandemic. In all meetings I have pointed out that in this situation, they must plan that they will not be able to collect as much foreign labour as usual. From the government's point of view, we have taken a number of steps to help agriculture manage to obtain enough labour even this year. That was explained by the rapporteur. I feel that the farmers themselves and their organizations are forward in the shoes and turn all the stones to secure the labour force. It is important to facilitate summer work for young people and to provide adequate and competent labour. I have been clear about the industry that they must also think in the long term. That's what you do in other industries, too. In the health system, it's quite right that they say you don't get good in the first year. You have to work many years in a row. But they're thinking in the long term, and they're making contracts just to get an acquired competence. For many years and in many rural areas around Norway, farmers have secured Norwegian youth both on weekends, job replacements and jobs in agriculture. It is important for agriculture, it is important for youth, and it is important for Building Norway. Agriculture, of course, must also be an industry with serious employers, and it has an orderly job. I feel that they're giving a lot of money. And in the last year, 1,200 producers have actually completed employers’ courses, just to be able to attend to their employees. Nav plays an important role, and in 2021 a new grant was introduced to employers who take on young jobseekers in summer jobs. This is in addition to the regular communication of summer jobs and the campaign at work.no, to profile summer jobs, among others. in agriculture. The industry itself is primarily responsible for reaching out to groups that are not under the supervision of Nav. I believe and hope that we will see many young people in the summer jobs of agriculture in addition to this summer, but I also want it for the future – both over the year and over the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e928	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e933	The Labour Minister considers the proposal of the Labour Party to be a good proposal. Is it the Minister of Agriculture who put his foot down?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e938	The Minister of Agriculture has not put his foot down. When you have given grants to Nav, when you have had regular meetings between Nav and the industry, when you go to work.no, when you are using recruitment, when you talk about speaking about Norwegian agriculture, when you have received more applications for natural use precisely because you are going to talk Norwegian young people's skills into Norwegian agriculture, it has been very close to that that the Minister of Agriculture has said no.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e943	Then I interpret it so that it is the bourgeois parties on the Stortinget who say no. In any case, the problem remains unresolved, and that is what is important in this debate. No matter how many detailed points you frame, it's a fact that there's still too few recruits. In the week that passed, we saw, for example, that there are producers of strawberries in the Inland that need 50 people this summer but have so far recruited zero. The business committee received a response from the government when we asked if Nav had contributed information to high school students. Then the answer was that the Directorate of Labour and Welfare does not know whether information has been provided to students at secondary schools. This is where the problem lies – the government says no that Nav should be able to contact this group. It is absolutely right that we should also, of course, offer those who are out of work today, but there is an incredible resistance to addressing young people in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e954	Firstly, in each region, Nav has a contact person against agriculture. Secondly, farmers in Norway are quite up - to - date people. They're in and they're recruiting Norwegian youth themselves. Nav, in cooperation with the farmers, operates recruitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e959	At least there is a recruitment that faces some systematic problems. That's why things are going too slow. Firstly, what I have already said is that we are not addressing young people in general, and secondly, that there has been insufficient support for training on the farms with the production to be carried out. One who is going to be part of and cut onions needs training other than a youth who is going to be a guest. To forest: fortunately, a majority of the Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Centre Party and SV will be elected for this scheme to expire in the 2021 season. It is then important to point out that this also applies to the planting of crops. Therefore, I wonder if the minister can confirm that you will follow up, so that it will apply throughout the season 2021. And to Skelstad: it's NIBIO who, on behalf of the forest industry, checks out the possibility of also continuing a little bit in July.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e968	I, of course, as the Council of State, am going to deal with what is a decision in Stortinget, and I will come back to Stortinget with it. But I want to say: I and my department were actually in dialogue with forestry before this decision came into Stortinget, because I am concerned about forest planting. I was last year, we got a deal last year, and I'd like to see it done this year. So the Storting decided this, and I'm going to deal with what's being adopted in the Storing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e975	Our country is long, and the spring comes in a little different times, so some places are finished planting and so, while other places consider whether to venture to do this – and how much. Last year we had a decision that meant that here must a plant and then like one had planned, and then one would follow this up. So this year there's a little bit of the same uncertainty. Then my question is: can the Minister of Agriculture give clear advice to the farmers in the country that they must plant and as planned?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e982	Yes, I am concerned that they should follow their plans. That's quite right, as the representative says: some places the earth's particles have gone into the ground, others haven't gone out of the ground. We're a long-distance country, and that means I'm busy using the resources we have. Then we've got a crop damage scheme that's expanded to that if you lose yield due to lack of labour, the state will go in and compensate it. We did that last year, and we're going to do that this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e987	With this forest planting proposal under way, a government asks to come back to the revised budget for 2021. But this is work that can be started now, so it is important that the actors are given confidence that what is agreed today is followed up. I'm a little surprised that the government party doesn't support the proposal. I'm not even going to try to say that they're against it, because I've done that in other cases, and it's triggered letters of readers with debts about lies and what's worse. I'm going to limit myself to asking the question: Will the government follow up the decision of the majority in the Storting today, so that people in the forest industry can have confidence in it already now?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e995	As the Council of State, you actually have to follow the majority decisions in Stortinget, and I will do that in a suitable way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e1000	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e1007	Sustainable food production must also be socially sustainable. I have been surprised by some suggestions – I know that most of them are serious – related to living and working conditions that are not quite good. I also think a lot of people have responded that so much of the seasonal agricultural work is being solved with imported labour. But when there is a crisis, it also gives opportunities – the opening you see now. It is evident that there is a great need for labour and seasonal labour, while many young people do not have the same opportunities for summer jobs as they had in the past, and there are also many others who might think of seasonal work. I know that very many in this room – including the president, who comes from the most beautiful agricultural municipality in Hordaland – have experience in agriculture and recruitment. Young people get a lot of experience in their first job. Many have been deprived in recent years, because there are fewer opportunities to get a summer job. There is a great opportunity for the agricultural industry to demonstrate the opportunities in that sector. When I worked in high school, we had three agricultural schools in our county. One only specializes in small creeps – that's who was closest to Bergen. Then, of course, we had it on Voss. It surprised me when I worked as a politician in Bergen, that we actually had a lot of agriculture in Bergen, but it was not visible to the population. So getting more people to understand the importance of the agricultural industry, I think, is crucial in the future. It might be a little smart to have some arrangements that push a little bit on in terms of Nav's support. In the case of aid for forestry, there is also a lot of forest in the West. The mountains have seven mountains around them, and still away when I meet retired people, they know that they've planted trees there and there, like school kids. Then they got a relationship with forest planting and what's around it. So you should use the opportunity you have with the challenges, but – as many people have experienced – it's urgent to get good solutions in place. But the room is there – so use it!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e1018	It is commendable that the Labour Party addresses the proposal for recruiting young people, students and high school students for summer jobs in agriculture. It is important to have a debate, but the most important thing is to get a change in practice. We can say that people who live in Norway do not work in the strawberry field. Vietnamese, Ukrainians and Eastern Europeans do the job. The corona pandemic leads to a critical need for labour. This concerns Norway’s food supply. This is not the result of a gene error among people living in Norway, but the result of a policy from the Stortinget over a long, long period of time. The coming season must be covered with a diversity of people, guest workers and people from the community. What's interesting to hear is that few talk about the elephant in the room. What's the elephant in the room? Well, it's the poor profitability of agricultural work, whether it's a farmer or an employee. Now we have to start talking about profitability: the elephant in the room. Poorest of all public tariff agreements have been the subject of an agricultural tariff agreement. The minimum salary for seasonal workers over 18 years is NOK 126.15 per hour for permanent employees, NOK 159.05 per hour for permanent workers, and the daily allowance is now approximately NOK 125 to NOK 210 per hour for income of NOK 300000 – NOK 600 000. Is there anyone who's wondering why that happens, what's going on? Agricultural work is not hard work. We live in a capitalist economy, it's going to pay off to work. Wages must be raised. The compensation for the family's work is approximately NOK 140 per hour with a return of 2 pst. in the case of capital inserted. 140 kr per hour for farmers who have a farm of 300 – 500 dekar. Source is the agricultural operational review for the last financial year. Get it out of here! These facts are the driving force behind the policy that makes there are huge problems. The consequence is, of course, that family use is uncompetitive, and corporate agriculture is taking over with non-resident guest workers. Today's agricultural agreement system is on track. We have to make a change, we have to increase profitability. The centre party has proposed a mentoring system, but the big thing is that import protection needs to be promoted, the power in the chain needs to be streamlined, and the market regulation of economic organisations needs to be promoted. We're talking about a crisis. A crisis offers opportunities. This is where it has to change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e1037	My very first summer job was like strawberry picking in India. I was so lucky to have an aunt at Levanger, and I and my sibling child picked. I quickly realized that it was hard work for little money, and the girls from Brønnøysund who had been there several summers in a row were so incredibly much faster than us who were just 13 years old. But it was enough for a new pink jersey to start school when I started high school. If it was the beginning of India in 1981 that led me to Stortinget, it should be unsaid, but that summer work is important to Norwegian youth, there is no doubt about it. One might wonder why the government parties cannot support the very good proposal that is on the table. I hear the Progress Party say that business has to fix it itself. Yeah, we've been trying that for a while. Then they say that Nav is under pressure. Yes, but Røe Isaksen has said in New Year's New Year 18 that he thinks it was a good idea that Nav should get hold of this. He might know better than the representative Bjørnstad. Then we hear it's resistance because Norwegian youth is not good enough. Then I'm really worried, because this coronary ape has shown us a huge social problem, which I can give you a little picture of. We collect labour from outside to a greater extent than I think anyone in Norway has been aware of. At the same time, the increase in young people under 30 years of age is galloping. We need to be able to use our own people to do the jobs that are important for Norway to do. Then I agree with the previous speaker, who says something about profitability, labour and working conditions in the industry. I want to quote one of Sverre Kjelsberg's battle songs in the 1970s, where he sings about the civil side, that they think the workers' power is too high in price and have to acquire the power needed in another way. We need to have a sustainable working life in all areas, including agriculture. I am very sorry that we are not getting a pass to bet on Norwegian youth getting a summer job. They need it very much in this corona time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e1050	I think my partisans have had good posts here, so my post now is really to add a couple of points. Some of what I think is perhaps critical, or should be the focus of this debate, is: How well prepared were we at the Corona Summer 2021? There was a crisis in agriculture last year too, so I think we should be even better prepared than what we are at the present date on production and the season 2021. It's about predictability – it's about the long lines. And it's about these are issues that we already saw playing out last year. Still, chaos and crisis are in many places in the country. Norwegian food production depends on long lines, and strawberries have been a theme. I want to root out the example of strawberry production a little, because that's what we're actually going under in the long term if plant production isn't taken care of this year. It's about the fact that there are three-year cycles on these plants, and that the import of strawberries can quickly enter the market and make consumers perhaps no longer bullying strawberries and strawberries if the price goes up as much as it takes to ensure profitability, and because there is a very concrete lack of plants. So I fear for Norwegian self-sufficiency, among other things. the actually so high-value Norwegian strawberries in the long term. The self-sufficiency of animals and plants must be managed over time — predictability over time. It's about, as Lundtigen said so clearly here, precisely the profitability of the industry. It may not be a mountain and valley track dependent on the market, on the regulation of borders and on the rise or fall in profitability, or on the conditions of cultivation and labour of gardeners. Work experience has also been the subject of the debate, and I challenge the Minister of Agriculture to be involved in strawberry ploughing in Uppland during the summer, because we also have strawberry cultivation in the mountains like Gudbrandsdalen, and we hope that we can have that in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e1061	I am following the debate with interest. I am from the agricultural community of Lier and know well the issues that are being discussed here. Several have talked about when they started working in agriculture. I guess I started when I was 12-13. It was forbidden even in the 1950s, but of course it was seen through the fingers, and it was a good interaction between the local population and agriculture in Lier at the time, as it is now. I take the floor for two reasons, which are related to the debate here. One is that I want to say that the core of the problem is what the representative, Mr Lundtigen, has said. That's the core of the problem. That's how it goes when industry's profitability gets too low – when wages are pushed, and then other ways are found to provide workers who are not healthy, and who are not really sustainable in the long term either, as the representative Lundtigen says quite precisely. I agree with that reasoning. The other side of the matter – and I was not quite aware of this matter until today – is that when I read the vote and hear the debate, I do not understand why the government parties and the council are against this proposal. It's not the opposite of what the government is now saying, and what it's explained to it, and what the government's behind it is. It's okay. But what is the problem of the State having a concrete commitment and asking Nav for public intervention, to go in to help solve the labour problems in the current situation? I don't understand. There are none of the speakers who have been up – nor the Council of State, nor in the change of line – who speak in such a way that at least I understand why you are against. Then there's a little provocative question, and that's: are you opposed on ideological grounds because you want this to be done on a private basis, which now turns out to be no longer enough because it's a crisis? If that's the ideological argument that's out there and going into hiding, it should come to the surface. Then at least we know why they vote against and do not actively participate and use the state's resources to solve the acute shortage of agricultural labour, as we hear from all sides of the country, even from the rural I come from, Lier, despite being very privileged, but nevertheless have these problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e1072	That's exactly what the representative Kolberg said. The economic situation in agriculture is not healthy. It's not a healthy development. It's not sustainable, and the pandemic has really shown this. I am grateful that Mr Kolberg's representative is here. This is one of the main reasons why today's Center Party leadership is committed to working with the Workers' Party, because we do not have similar support from the right side of Norwegian policy. I also hope that several of the younger representatives in the Workers' Party can take up that legacy from Martin Kolberg and materialise their criticism of today's government into economic recovery. So the elephant in the room is the profitability. There are strong forces in the industry that want us to have a profitability in agriculture that is such that we get a public tariff agreement that is as good as in construction. It was just to be lacking that we should not have a profitability in agriculture that gives a public tariff agreement similar to construction. If we get that, I'll tell you that we're going to change. NHO Food and Drinking are the joint association's counterpart in the negotiation of a public tariff agreement. They are led by the chairman, Håkon Mageli, of Orkla, who is systematically working to keep wages and salaries and working conditions down. Then he sits in the scissors. Here it must be general, clear signals to, so that the social partners understand that we need to change. The representative Sandtrøen said there was resistance in Norwegian agriculture to using people in the local environment. No, there's no resistance in that sense. What is at the heart is that a farmer is a seafaring businessman and looks at what is most profitable. As the framework conditions are today, one has been paid the most per hour of work by using guest workers, and that is what needs to be turned around. It must be most profitable for the holder to use people from the local environment. Quarantine provisions, all the uncertainty that has now been, have shown how expensive it is to use guest workers. Many people want the evolution that I'm telling you about, but we have to look at this as a whole. I just want to repeat what Ruth Grung said: crisis gives opportunity. Thank you, Ruth Grung. Crisis provides an opportunity. That is what now needs to materialize in a new course, and I am very interested in hearing the Government's response on pay terms. Seasonal workers under the age of 18 have a tariff agreement of NOK 106.15. Over the age of 18, it's $166.15. Not so many people work in the strawberry field with such a payment.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e1087	A lot has been said in this debate. Among other things, I have have been challenged on the ideological basis for this, and almost nothing has been done in the last year to get Norwegian youth out in summer jobs in agriculture. Thus, we have introduced grants to employers that include young workers for at least four weeks of summer work. But what I'm experiencing here now is that it's going to be like a pattern from the Workers' Party, that it's just the state that can sort things out. It's not like in my world that one and only is the state that's going to make sure that young people get summer jobs. I think Nav has an important role, and they also have an important role to play in disseminating labour, but I also believe in a society where different actors work together to find solutions to the challenges. Then I believe in public authorities, then I believe in the industry itself, then I believe in individuals, and then I think that they, along with Nav, can join in and find solutions – not just the public alone. Then I have replied many times that we have arranged for the seven measures that the case-rapporteur has taken to ensure Norwegian youth work. Finally, I want to say, yes, I think – as Lundtigen said – that there are challenges related to the pay system. I also think there are challenges related to physical demands, physical challenges, precisely because there have been demanding working conditions, but I am concerned about, as Ruth Grung also said, proper living and working conditions and security around those who are going to work, in line with what other workers have. It was just supposed to be missing. Then the big pay discussion becomes a much bigger debate, and I'm willing to be in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e1098	I actually came to the Chamber to be in the next debate, but as I live in Lærdal, where people know this problem almost directly on the body, I think I have to take the floor and support submitted by the Workers' Party. It's easy to say that you're going to have kids in, there's a lot of people who want to, and there's a lot of people who are going to do it. Now everyone has witnessed, at least after I came in, about the time they started working. I don't know how many years I've been standing in the strawberry field and wearing out my knees on a lot of pants, for my father floated with strawberries as well as sheep and cows and other things. It was very "poppis" that time, but it's been a terrible time since I was young. And the youth might not be so inclined to lie down on all four of them in a strawberry field today as they were. Nor do they intend to work as many hours a day as many of the foreign workers do. So it's a dilemma. But anyway, if one had had a little more push, if one had had a little more strategies to raise that issue, and if Nav could have done a job – Nav is, after all, already in a lot of places in the country – it would have been possible to get more in. Then there are many people who say, as I was almost in the middle of myself, that they might not want to work that much. Well, it depends a little on what your salary is. I'm so in agreement with Per Olaf Lundteg – I couldn't be more united. When I talk to the farmers in Lærdal – and today I had a video meeting with farmers in Vik in Sogn, who have exactly the same problem – it applies to the paycheck. They say: We want both Norwegian youth and Norwegian adults in, but then we have absolutely nothing left for our own work. So we're going to be negative. As a result, agriculture has entered a completely wrong course — a completely wrong course. Soon we'll have to go to Inner Mongolia to find and bring in the people who are going to do the job, to get those who might be able to defend their salary. Is that really what the government wants? Now there's one in front of an agricultural business. We're not going to get involved in this from the Biggest side, but this has to be said, because it's been so obvious in the last months and the last year that the basic problem is that agricultural wages are so low that for example. an average berry producer does not have the chance to obtain an income from the current system. It is the responsibility of the Minister of Agriculture and the Government, and it is now their chance to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e1111	There was a need for an intervention to clarify a misunderstanding that the Minister of Agriculture clearly has with the Workers' Party's proposal. If someone has really tried to connect the state and business in this case, it is the Workers' Party. And we're doing it systematically in several areas now. Just think of our policy to include more young people in work in general. We want to increase salary subsidies on a general basis for Nav. Who will benefit from it? Well, it benefits both young people and businesses on a general basis. It is precisely in the proposal that operators should receive support for a three-week training and introduction period in order to prepare them with proper health, environment and safety and tidy pay and working conditions and a corresponding working period for the youth afterwards. This is an excellent example of how state and business can cooperate. As the representative of Bjørnstad took up, the same idea lies in the proposal that fortunately gets a majority, which is very positive, from the Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Center Party and the SV, about connecting our economic muscles, which we are contributing here on the Stortinget, and the desire of the industry for a constructive input, which we have dealt with in a fast and very unbureaucratic way, so that we can save $30 million. forest plants. There's a lot of collaboration between public and business. This is needed, and the representative of Kolberg has an important point, because it is obvious that in this debate there is an ideological gap on the basis of which it is voted against. It seems very important that this proposal be adopted by the LO and the Joint Confederation, because it may indicate that the community is once again in charge of and better control of the employment service, and that it is not just private employment agencies that are to spare the value of that job. So this is an important, important debate that goes far beyond the strawberry grower. It's about whether we're going to have a society where we get our youth into work, and whether we take responsibility for each other. In my own home country, the Inland, it's actually as much as up to 40 pst. of the population who are out of working life before working age. When journalists hear that, they don't quite understand what's being said, because we're used to talking about unemployment rates. But unemployment is just a little bit of cake of all the outsiders, and among them, unfortunately, there are more and more young people who are not within any systems. Those kids we'll see, and they'll we'll see already this summer, so they can get work experience, self-confidence and income.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e1127	This became a very interesting and important debate. Now, for three hours, the Stortinget has discussed two essential value issues related to very common conditions for ordinary people and quite common, traditional, strong Norwegian industries – agriculture on the one hand and the maritime with shipping and the seafarers on the other. The majority of the population rejects the basis of the value debate, both for the seamen who collect their incomes related to Norwegian oil and gas, and for the profitability of agriculture so that they can pay those who work in agriculture, a decent wage. That's kind of weird. I get a little sad when I hear the Minister of Agriculture argue so deeply for the proposals they have had, and the measures they have come with, which are very good. But isn't it just to shout hallelujah and thank you and amen for there's even more commitment and more suggestions on the table that can remedy the situation? Do we think Nav can play a role in his contact with youth and school? Yes. Why don't we just say yes to it, instead of making a big debate? The advantage of getting the big debate is that we get two value questions up to treatment in Stortinget that very clearly show the difference on the right-hand side and the left-hand side of Norwegian policy. The right-hand side never stands for the basic value that there should be a propensity at the bottom, both in terms of the principle of Norwegian pay and working conditions on Norwegian soil, and in terms of a propensity related to the profitability of Norwegian agriculture, so that we can maintain agriculture in a valuable way, with Norwegian pay and working conditions there as well, in a reassuring way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e1136	I hope no one believes in the misery description that we hear from the Center Party and the Workers' Party. Here you make it look like Nav isn't doing anything to recruit labour for agriculture. That's not true! I have to say that it is quite free of the Sandtrøen today to claim that the seven points that the government has put in to recruit labour are ‘adventure points’, especially when you think that one of the most important proposals we had was the Workers' Party, that is, to ensure that people who want to work in agriculture can keep some of their daily allowances by reporting only half of the hours. It was the Workers' Party against. I hope that farmers who had to listen to this today will contact Nav. In each of the counties, a contact person has been appointed against agriculture, and there are market coordinators who work actively to link resources in Nav to agriculture. They also work towards the agricultural schools for qualification. What we hear from the Workers' Party and the Center Party today is a description of misery that has no root in reality. Finally, a small concern about attitudes towards Norwegian youth as a labour force. The representative Sandtrøen and I were on TV today early 2 and debated this matter. The reason for the debate was a forester who would not use Norwegian youth because he thought they were working too badly. This I hope are not attitudes that spread, because my impression when I talk to farmers is that they are forward-looking and want to use Norwegian labour force and Norwegian youth. I had a conversation with the Bearland in Akershus. Last year they went in to prove that Norwegian youth is doing well. Norwegian youth turned out to be good. It's tough times. The peasants are challenged, but I hope and believe that this will solve itself, both through the measures that we have put in, and with the commitment and progress of the peasants themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e1149	I would like to make a few comments on the contribution by the representative Per Olaf Lundtigen. Lundtigen is reflected, and it is always interesting to hear what he has to come with. I also think he points to something essential when he refers to the profitability of agriculture as a challenge, even when one is going to be able to pay for seasonal labour to get the crops in the house. So it's a challenge, both the government of which the Center Party was part until 2013, and the Solberg government has had, to ensure an income development in agriculture that can counteract this. That is where I am jumping over the analysis that the representative Lundtigen is doing, when he concludes that it is going to the Workers' Party that the Centre Party will get the best payoff for agriculture. The representative, Lundteigen, is involved in politics. He was also with the spring of 2012 when Minister of Agriculture and Food Breck of the Centerpartie called 13 000 kroner per year’s work ‘a historically good offer’, and thousands of farmers at Karl Johan turned their backs on the Stortinget and burned the government’s agricultural message in protest. It is true that when the locks in LO knock on the door and require a good settlement for the fronts, and when the trade unions of hundreds of thousands of public servants require the same thing, it is not necessarily as easy to get the counting on which the analysis to Lundtigen is based. We in the Christian People's Party have now been in opposition for six years, with agriculture and food ministers from the Progress Party, and we have had the Ministry of Agriculture and Food for two years. We've delivered. We've had an income development that has made most of the years a deal, it hasn't been broken. And I feel confident that the Minister of Agriculture and Food will also be forward-looking at this year's settlement and do what she can to ensure the best possible framework when the government's offer comes to the table, when the demand has arrived at the table, and when the parties come to the negotiating table.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e1166	Thanks for a good post from Reten. It is important to have a clean and good labour market, including for young people. I have to say that when I had summer jobs in agriculture, those who paid my salary were at the top of the tax list in my municipality, while I always worked on chords. So I never worked on hourly pay. Getting 1 kroner and 20 øre per planted forest plant was nothing to buy many jerseys to start school for, I admit it. But there's this kind of nasty undertone here in the debate that I really like, and I want to bring out some aspects of it. Wages and salaries are not the only reason our 17-year-olds don't work in agriculture. In 1990, three-quarters of all 17-year-olds had summer or part-time jobs. In 2015, 40 pst. by all 17-year-olds in summer or part-time jobs. It's – also – because they don't need it, don't and don't want it. We have a welfare level that means that all 17-year-olds don't need to have a summer job in order to buy the genius they want to go to school. It's also part of this aspect. It shows the numbers and it shows the surveys, a single google search will give you the answer. Then there is a thought that anyone who comes from other countries is in a way contributing to negative ringing effects on the Norwegian labour market. I don't accept that. Many jobs are very proud to be international and have competence from other countries. I've been talking to my friends in Trøndelag who are farmers, and who were very anxious not to get in their Polish workers now, and that's because of their expertise. My best friend needs his Polish work because he is an expert at getting out the boats from which to fish salmon, out on the river. He's the one who's done it for the last 20 years, and he can. You don't have to talk negatively about the professional work of people sailing if they come from another country. I think we need to be able to look at this in a different way, because if you go to any other country, you'll see that you pick up unskilled farmers from other countries. The same applies to Spain and Italy. There they are from Morocco or Algeria. It's always like that. Then our task must be to ensure safe and good working conditions. But it's not that people from another country by definition are negative, and when something is Norwegian, it's by definition positive. There's also an essential value question in the way we talk about things in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e1179	The representative Per Olaf Lundteg has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e1184	The debate has shown who is genuinely concerned with improving profitability; it's the Center Party and the Workers' Party, and I appreciate that very much. I referred to the facts about public tariff agreements, I referred to the facts about the operational reviews. It might be an advantage if the representative from the Right can get involved in those numbers and understand what's going to be the consequences of that. Right does not want any change. The NHO will have no change. But fortunately, the Joint Alliance will have a change. It's a big, big light point. Farmers must benefit from the use of workers in their neighbourhoods rather than from guest workers. It requires that we have controlled labour immigration. It requires us to bring people into the community wherever they come from. They're good people. This is also building Norway, and it is our responsibility to facilitate it. We all have possibilities if we want. But what we're facing is to end the negative spiral, race to the bottom, that happens in Norwegian agriculture. And it's just the size that can do. Here lies the power.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e1193	Representative Nils Kristen Sandrøen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e1198	The representative of Skei Grande is quite right that it is under half of the country's 17-year-olds who have summer jobs. But on the other hand, there was a theory in what the representative said, which is demonstrably wrong, and that's the claim that the youth doesn't need summer work, because they have such good advice. If it were to vote, it's the youth who has the best advice and who comes from the families of the upper part of our economy, who wouldn't need a summer job, but the numbers from the SSB turn out to be systematic: it's the youth who already comes from home with a good economy and networks in business -- well, that's it, it's just asking researchers at the SSB -- who get summer jobs. Young people, for example: Around the poorer parts of Oslo, where there are many who live on very little, to a lesser extent have summer jobs. That theory has existed for a long time, and it is wrong. Now we have to go further and we have to adopt the proposal today, so that young people in all parts of Oslo, and otherwise in the country, can get an entrance ticket to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e1203	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox Case No. 4 and 5 are processed together.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e1231	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: the Labour Party 25 minutes, Right 25 minutes, the Progress Party 15 minutes, the Central Party 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Green Party 5 minutes and the Red Party 5 minutes. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e1238	In mid-December 1957 there were travel restrictions in Oslo, as today. But the problem at the time was not a contagious pandemic. It was fog. Prime Minister Gerhardsen was going to the NATO Summit in Paris, and the fog was so close that he chose to take trains from the East Railway all the way to Europe. In the mid 1950s there was some optimism after Khrushchev's takeover of power in the Soviet Union and his settlement with the forerunner Stalin. Optimism was reversed by the Soviet invasion of Hungary in November 1956. The course of this NATO summit was also marked by what we have marked in these days, namely Sputnik – it was Sputnik-shock that was part of the course. A few weeks before the heads of state met in Paris, the first artificial satellite had been launched into orbit around the globe. By the time of the summit, the United States had given Norway an offer, and it was to deploy medium-range rockets with a short alert time and reach to reach the Soviet Union from Norway. That was the American offer. Gerhardsen's speech at this summit raised awareness. Even years later, he wrote about this speech that his speech draft from the U.D. followed an old pattern, and if you ask good diplomats to write a speech, you would like to have a speech that is marked by it — diplomatically. But this time Gerhardsen wanted something more – although it is always an advantage that the speeches are quality assured by diplomats, I would stress it. For Gerhardsen at the time had a clear message. He confirmed Norwegian basic policy. He said no to the deployment of nuclear weapons on Norwegian soil, and he rejected the offer of medium-range rockets in Norway. Exactly 30 years later, just weeks after Gerhardsen's death, 1987, the debate on medium-range rockets would end with the INF agreement between the United States and the Soviet Union and a ban on such destabilising weapons in Europe. Three decades later, the INF Agreement was terminated, in August 2019. Today, we are still facing the risk of an arms race in Europe with the deployment of medium-range rockets both in the east and in the west. Gerhardsen met in Stortinget after the Paris agreement. Both the Right and the Center expressed scepticism in the Prime Minister’s speech, but the security policy was nevertheless shattered and continued across changing governments. Deterrence through the combination of our national defences and the NATO alliance, reassurance through basic and nuclear policy – that is the core of Norwegian security policy. Since 1957, Norway has in practice had a national ban on nuclear weapons: no nuclear weapons in Norwegian soil. In today's security policy situation, it is not possible for NATO countries like Norway to sign the new international nuclear treaty without reducing our ability to influence and protect, on which we depend. Norway's role in disarmament policy must be like a bridge builder, assuming that we have been a NATO member ever since the alliance was founded in 1949. In the disarmament field, there is a need for the opportunities that Norway can provide. I noticed that the Foreign Minister pulled out the work to verify nuclear disarmament in his speech. I think that is good, and it is a continuation of Norwegian-Russian cooperation that Jonas Gahr Støre, Minister of Foreign Affairs at the time, took the initiative in 2007. It's good that we can stand together on this. Let me now, at the end of this period, thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a good account and for a good cooperation over a great period of time. On behalf of the Stortinget and the Committee, I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for the good and close cooperation we have had, and for the good discussions we have had. The Coronapandemic is still the predominant theme of Norwegian and international policy. When the pandemic spread to all continents of the world last year, millions of people lost in land without safety nets other than their families, the basis of their lives overnight. Many children won't come back to school, and the UN has estimated that 11 million girls will have to quit school because of the pandemic. So progress in equality has been set back several years. The world will need a global effort to recover the lost. Norway must take part in this work. The pandemic, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs has pointed out in his presentation, has been a magnifying glass to show what works in international cooperation and where international cooperation is short. Yes, the United Nations system and other international organisations have significant weaknesses and shortcomings, but Norway was involved in establishing many of these organisations, and then we have to take responsibility for both improving them and defending them. The main objective of Norwegian foreign policy must be to ensure Norwegian interests and Norwegian values. Yes, we put Norway first, but very often we are also best served with internationally committed cooperation with other countries. It's Norway's self-interest. Therefore, there is no contradiction between Norway first and mandatory international cooperation. They're hanging out. The alternative is that the strongest right gets rough. Should there be a government change for the autumn, I can already notify on behalf of the Workers' Party that there will be no dramatic changes in the course of Norwegian foreign policy. It is an advantage for a country like Norway. We will continue the main lines of Norwegian foreign policy as they have been outsourced by Labour Party governments after World War II also: international law, the UN, the NATO alliance and the EEA Agreement. Here I share the Foreign Minister's main line in her presentation, because in the face of a more uneasy and unpredictable world, a more unpredictable foreign policy is not a sensible answer. However, in meeting a world of rapid changes, price adjustments will be needed. Norwegian foreign policy needs more bones to stand on. The rivalry between the major powers is increasing, and in order to safeguard Norwegian interests, we need to be able to balance, navigate wisely and build new alliances. The Labour Party will conduct Norwegian foreign policy for a safer, fairer and greener world. Even in the middle of the pandemic and in climate change, it must also be reflected in Norwegian foreign policy. There are many red threads from the 1957 NATO Summit until today. In the Paris Agreement, Einar Gerhardsen confirmed Norwegian basic policy, the foundation of what was Norway's policy, that it was not to station foreign forces on our territory, as long as we were not threatened or under attack. It was Norwegian basic policy. The government has now negotiated a new defence agreement with the United States. From the Labour Party's side, we are because our allies train and practice in Norway, in Norwegian geography, in Norwegian climate, together with Norwegian forces, and we are for this activity to take place in order, based on an up-to-date agreement. It is the continuation of what is the main line of Norwegian security policy. The United States is Norway's most important ally, we're an Atlantic country, but we also need more legs to stand on. There is a need to think about old partners, and I believe that there is a very untapped potential in Nordic security and defence cooperation as a complement to NATO cooperation. We would like to say that we need to avoid having security crises become too big for Norway, but too small for NATO. Using Nordic cooperation to close this gap is one of several concepts we need to continue working on to pin our security and our security in the 2020s as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e1272	Let me first of all congratulate Iran on a fantastic appointment to the United Nations Council on Women's Rights. I guess it actually shows the true face of the United Nations. So there were four Western countries that voted for this, so you can wonder where these countries get their intention and motivation to sit in the United Nations. I would also like to thank the Foreign Minister for a long and thorough presentation. I want to start there the foreign minister started, with the covid-19 pandemic. The Minister of Foreign Affairs pointed out that the pandemic acted as a magnifying glass, which shows what works in international cooperation and where it comes to cards. It can also be said that it shows which countries have good preparedness and which countries have functioning systems. It shows us which countries we can learn from in particular. It also shows that, after all, the nation-states are the acting units that buy up and distribute vaccines to the population. Adult nationalism is often called. It is not meant to be a compliment, but the fact is that when richer countries buy drugs at a high price, this fund increased production capacity and further development of the vaccines. Vaccine nationalists are willing to pay and take risks. As a result, production is increasing and the world has access to several vaccines. The price will also decrease when the offer is increased. This means that poor countries can afford to buy the vaccines. Despite the coronary apathy, the underlying conflict structures of the international community are clear. You have to fool yourself and think that what we are experiencing is "end of history", and that the future will not experience great upheavals, neither in society, politics, governance, nor in economics. Unfortunately, the opposite is what we're experiencing. Those who want to see see clearly “clash of civilizations”, how large population growth in Muslim countries combined with strong economic growth in Asia will create a new world order. The power of democracy is weakened, and the global influence of the West is on the way back. Neither Norway nor our closest allies want to address the macropolitical image, partly because it is unpleasant, but also because we are powerless against major global trends. All cultures have one thing in common, and that's that they disappeared. The same thing will happen to our civilization. There is no law of nature saying that Western civilization should continue its hegemony. There is no natural law that says that the global structure that emerged under Western imperialism, and since then through international organisations and the development of international law and human rights, should continue. From time to time, there will be challengers who will either destroy the system, change it from inside to inside, or be integrated. China is a challenger, and this is being recognised more clearly. John Bolton, former security adviser in the United States, believes that China is an existential threat to Western democracies. Bolton is as well-known as a hawk, but the new administration in the United States follows in practice the same line. Foreign Minister Blinken uses very strong words when he says that China commits genocide and crimes against humanity. China has global ambitions. It is natural for a great power to wish for an expansion of its sphere of interest. It is natural for China to seek more power – economically, politically and militarily. What should Norway do in this situation? The Progress Party is a supporter of free trade and, in principle, wishes to welcome a free trade agreement with China. Nor do we want to be in the freezer again, but we want to build on a constructive relationship with China. At the same time, we have to be very clear about setting limits and fences of our interests. That is why the decision we took in dealing with the North Sea notification is important. Here we clearly stated that Norway must ensure Norwegian ownership of critical infrastructure and property and control the natural resources of the northern regions, Norway’s main strategic responsibility. It is also important to build strong alliances and relationships with our Western allies. Together, we need to secure important value chains, for example. in the case of the production of medicines and technology. It is important to ensure access to mineral deposits and other resources, which may be vulnerable if the level of conflict increases. Maybe we should build regional value chains rather than global ones. And we have to do what the voters have made us do: we have to secure Norwegian interests and put our own country first. Norway is trying to make itself relevant. The Minister of Foreign Affairs refers to assistance, climate and national efforts for conflict resolution, but in none of these areas Norway’s contribution has a notable effect, and globally they are completely meaningless. Despite record aid, poverty is increasing and population growth in poor countries is enormous. In the fight against climate disaster, nearly all efforts to limit climate emissions have been left to well-developed democracies. Large emitters escape and even allow their emissions to increase. We love to present our country as a peace nation, a country that travels around and engages in various conflicts all over the globe, a traveling peace diplomacy corps. Unfortunately, we do not succeed. The forces we fight against are far stronger than the rational and democratic ideas we can contribute to. Conflicts have deep roots and are too extensive. Compromises neither sought nor accepted. Worldly, Western democratic thinking is foreign. I do not doubt that Norway's intentions and ambitions are the very best, but unfortunately they are a kick in the loose air. Our commitment requires a great degree of diplomacy and extensive cooperation with civil organisations – organisations that want the best but are not based on volunteering. They are paid by the public — a collusion of public actors and key political ex-actors. I want to use the last few minutes of my post to address some issues about the internal procedures of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as these have emerged in the media over the past few weeks. In particular, today's economy has been active and has taken its social mission seriously. All honor to the Nutrient Life of the Day. Despite relatively dramatic revelations of mixing roles and contacts, the other media have largely left these behind. I've been contacted by a number of people with extensive experience in the foreign service, both in the U.N. and in the U.D., who have wanted to tell me their story. Common to these is that they have perceived the Progress Party as the only party that is not involved. Several ask themselves why the maladministration has not led to a police report or a review by the National Audit Office. You can ask yourself what assessments central media actors such as NRK and TV 2 have made. For me, these revelations are about security policy, potential corruption and the security of the state, and they are therefore something more than internal personnel matters. The first big thing that got attention was Terje Red-Larsen's many hats in Norwegian diplomacy. Red-Larsen has been operating his own diplomatic practice for years with varying support from the U.D. and the UN. Øystein Steiro conducted a review of Norway’s diplomatic engagement for some time. The article was in the class struggle. In the paper he showed that foreign diplomats refer to Norway as the world’s largest NGO. Jagland, Bondevik and Stoltenberg presented Norway as a humanitarian power and peacemaker. The ideas gradually established themselves in the Right, and with Prime Minister Erna Solberg and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who we have here today. Many have suggested that Norway bought a place in the Security Council, including myself. Steiro writes that in the past thirty years, so-called engagement policy has cost Norwegian taxpayers crazy amounts. The results have been extremely thin, except for an inflated self-image in the narrow, homely foreign policy environment in Oslo. This is reflected in what I said initially. Several of our leading national politicians have gained lucrative international right-wing positions. You don't get that for your blue eyes, but it's more likely because you're rid of taxpayers' money. There are also a number of senior officials in the U.D. and at the Office of the Prime Minister, as well as the directors of the growing aid and peace organisations. They have been able to build careers and, in some cases, considerable personal fortunes through their position as international distributors of our common tax money. So far, Steiro senior. I don't have time to go through all the steps along the way, nor do all the actors who contributed to the development, but the result is interesting. The Oslo process was launched as a private initiative without anchoring either at large or in civil service. It gave Mona Juul a fast career in the U.D. and started Terje Red-Larsen's life on red runners in the U.N., including its own play on Broadway. Red-Larsen made his own peace run, but there was no peace in the Middle East. What was initially an Workers' Party privilege became a source of international success for politicians and civil servants from several parties, primarily from the Workers' Party, but from the Right and also from the Christian People's Party and SV. As I see it, this is the reason for the lack of interest in cleaning up and making the people involved responsible. For all major peace projects Norway has committed itself to, they have been accompanied by significant amounts of money to various actors in the processes. Red-Larsen became one of the actors in Jagland’s ‘Norwegian House’. Before that, he was Secretary General of the United Nations. After a record time as a planning minister, a post from which he had to leave, he was given the opportunity to return to the position that Norway sent out and Deputy Secretary-General of the United Nations. In 1999, the Juul/Red-Larsen couple received a peace prize from the Shimon Peres Center of $50,000 each. They failed to report it to the U.D. It was not given to the tax authorities, but it had no career consequences. Mona Juul was appointed State Secretary of the Stoltenberg Government in 2000, and in 2001 she was appointed Ambassador of Tel Aviv. Mona Juul was later appointed Ambassador to London by Børge Burnde in 2014, and by today's Minister of Foreign Affairs to UN Ambassador in 2019, where she now sits as Norway's representative in the Security Council. In 2020, Red-Larsen had to leave the Board of Directors of the International Peace Institute, a position that gave him a sky-high fee. He also did not want to explain the background to the private loan of 130,000 dollars he filed with the convicted Jeffrey Epstein. The leftover impression is that the U.D. is protecting its own, for one day the need can be turned upside down. ‘You scratch my back, I’ll scratch yours’ – network, elite circulation and personal horse dealer across the boundaries of the lot. It's not least about economics. In the form of a crossword, I can mention, without going into details about it, Congo, Wennesland, Joshua French, Eye, Gertler. I can also mention the letter from Wennesland to the diamond dealer Dan Gertler, a letter whose content is not yet known. Nor does Wennesland want to tell the public about it, and you can ask why the letter was written. The public needs more answers. I would now like to speak on case No. 5 – a little strange to merge these two issues – say a few words about what was common to these international delegations and organisations in 2020. Human rights and the development of democracy are at the heart of several parliamentary assemblies. In PACE, this is the overall theme, as it forms part of the core of the organisation’s work for the OSCE PA and IPU. Security policy is a common denominator for NATO PA and the OSCE PA, the emergence of China and its geopolitical implications. The issue of major power-rivalisation between China and the United States has been a topical one, among other things. NATO PA, ASEP/ AIPA and the Arctic delegation. The trade policy implications of this have been central to the EEA/EFTA and ASEP/AIPA. We have been concerned about developments in the WTO and how both pandemic and sustained major activisation have affected a multilateral trading system under strong pressure and the relationship between the United States and China and Asia and the EU. Developments in the north, in particular the impacts of climate change, have been discussed in the Arctic delegation and in the OSCE PA. There is an increased international political interest in the Arctic and the North. The Committee points out that as a result of the pandemic, Parliamentary meetings have had to go to meetings on digital platforms, and the Committee looks forward to the resumption of physical meetings. This will make it easier for the members of the delegation to have informal contacts and to maintain networks in order to take initiatives, influence and obtain information. The Committee believes that it is essential to maintain the forum for interparliamentary cooperation at a time of political tensions and that participation in such forums helps to maintain dialogue, understanding and interaction between nations.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e1331	I think I would like to start with a reference to the previous article, because I was a little surprised at what case was mentioned. It was an interesting, shocking and profound press release in recent years, but what we are about to discuss today is the Secretary of State's statement. Then I see that because of the merged cases, the previous speaker is also the case rapporteur, but I am still unable to get a grip on what matter my honourable co-representative is the case rapporteur for. It is true that there may not have been all these attacks on the part of the Committee. I would therefore like to return to a more constructive lead and thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a rich and comprehensive presentation. The first president of the democratic Czechoslovakia – that was before the division – of the first democratic government and constitution after the dissolution of the Soviet Union, President Vaclav Havel, said very wisely that the state that oppresses its own citizens will also be a constant threat to its neighbouring country. Russia’s change of national borders in Europe through power has changed the security policy image in Europe. But in 2014, the annexation of Crimea did not come without advance notice. The country had already been involved — directly or indirectly — in military conflicts with several of its neighbouring countries. In parallel with external attempts to destabilise independent, newly sovereign states, not only in their immediate vicinity but also through systematic interference in the choices of Western democracies, pressure on their own populations has been maintained and increased. Today, we were able to wake up to the international news media's report that yesterday 1,700 were arrested and protested against the treatment of the oppositional Aleksey Navalnyj. After surviving a state-run poison murder, he was sent to prison after a parody process on his return after hospital treatment in Germany. Navalnyj has become a symbol not only of the suppression of alternative political views as expressed through organized parties, but also of the fact that it is at all lethal to express itself about the abuse and corruption of power of the ruling elite. Therefore, it is not to interfere in internal relations when we demand immediate release of Navalnyj and everyone else who has been thrown into prison as part of a political repression. Our historical experience suggests that a regime that Putins will not give up power on a voluntary basis. The question is how much suffering the Russian people are going to experience before that happens, and not least what we can expect from foreign policy experiments before we get there. There is growing concern that Russia will once again engage directly in Ukraine, as they did with Crimea in 2014. Airborne troops, attack helicopters, reconnaissance drones. Satellite images published in The Wall Street Journal a week ago, April 16, show a large number of Su-30 fighter planes set up in Crimea. At the same time, there is a unprecedented recharging of power at the border with Ukraine approaching 120,000, without any thank-you. We do not know where this will end, but we are not guaranteed that Russia will confine itself to intimidating behavior towards peaceful neighbours to replace lost international reputation with fear. Russia represents the largest security risk factor for Europe today. It must meet with maximum coordination between democratic countries. Since World War II, Norway has been deeply anchored in the NATO Atlantic Defence Alliance. At the same time, the development of NATO has in time also become the only credible alliance of European countries, of which the EU countries and the United Kingdom contribute with political weight and, in particular, with their own capacities. It is in this picture that we must see the positiveness of the external relations that have promoted greater cooperation between the Nordic countries, internally in the Nordic countries, but also the NATO countries of Europe and the United States, with the NATO Decision and the Wales Declaration. After the presidential change in the United States, you can already see that you're winning over the split trends that have emerged, without the United States having at any time retreated from its allies in Europe. I think that's also an important lesson. The relationship between NATO, the alliance with the United States and a stronger European understanding of taking greater responsibility for its own security – this cohesion is more onerous despite transitory fragmentation or procedural disagreements. It is also time, at my discretion, to travel as a matter of how far developments in Russia can go without having consequences for the country's membership of the Council of Europe. How long can the decisions of the Court of Human Rights be ignored without prejudice to the credibility of the Court as the enforcement body of the European Convention on Human Rights? This issue must be raised by several countries, coordinated, in view of a deadline for the enforcement of judgments and in view of consequences if not. Norway should be one of these countries. For Norway, as a small country, there is no alternative in an insecure world to assert its own sovereignty but to cooperate closely with our friends, our neighbours and in an alliance that shares fundamental values. But precisely when we focus on community as strongly as a Norwegian interest, it is self-contradictory that we cannot fully participate in political cooperation in our part of the world. We have an economic membership of the EU through the EEA Agreement, which provides our export opportunities and thus most of our wealth. We who are happy in Nordic cooperation also see that we are missing out on deeper integration in the Nordic countries when Finland, Sweden and Denmark are in the EU and we are not. With all due respect for all other international cooperation – we could be involved in influencing the development of European policy in its design in a more Nordic direction if we had taken part, and if we had wanted to. Our Nordic neighbouring countries have expressed concerns about the completion of the North Stream 2 gas pipeline, which is being established as an alternative to Russian gas, so that it no longer has to go over Ukraine and thus contribute to Ukraine’s state revenues. European cooperation to meet own energy needs should have been driven more forcefully because it has a security policy side in addition to an environmental one. Norway could also play a greater role here, but opportunities are not exhausted, and they remain there. This is the last foreign policy statement before the major decision. Apart from some dissatisfaction with the obligations of NATO membership, the importance of the double decision in the 1980s, which is based on solidarity, and the constant emphasis on the less committed parts of NATO cooperation, the Workers' Party has, after all, been a credible party in terms of the Atlantic Defence Alliance. Nevertheless, it appears that any other government would have to rely on two contrary parties to NATO and three that would terminate the EEA Agreement. We must also assume that the Workers' Party has a permanently weakened position, and then the forces that will weaken the Western Defence Community and close the access of our companies to the internal market in the EU will strengthen themselves in such a cracking government community, inside or outside the government itself. With an EEA Agreement ineffective or weakened, the access we have had to other EU programmes, far beyond that resulting from a nine-time reading of the EEA Agreement, will also be at risk. Here we should study more closely the surprising experiences of the British when they left EU cooperation, by revealing cooperation developed in areas other than what they distanced themselves from and which they had taken for granted, for example. access to the same information systems to combat international crime or prosecution of cross-border crime. From a foreign and security policy point of view, the majority of those who stand out as an option after the elections are not a safe choice for Norway. But luckily, the voters have to say something about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e1363	I would like to start by thanking the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a good and tidy statement, and I would also like to join the leader in his good words about the cooperation she has with our foreign minister. It has been characterized by cleanliness and real political craftsmanship. I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that every Norwegian government should build a solid foreign and security policy that can tolerate surprising turns and that can last for a while. We see that when different crises affect us, we are so careful to deal with them, and the next crisis is certainly not like this. We've seen that, whether it was the twin towers in New York that were bombed, or it was about the financial crisis or the pandemic that we're now in the middle of. It's hard to be well served. The centre party is very concerned about the major activization that has taken place, which is increasingly taking place and is shaping our neighbourhood, especially in the north. We see a dangerous signal from our neighbor in the east, and the situation that is now in and around Ukraine, is very unfortunate, to say it mildly. We also see an increasingly active China. This is a development that is obviously not in Norway's interests, and one that needs to be taken seriously. Norway must both work continuously to calm and deter our neighbour in the east and build up national capacities and defence in parallel with it. Norway must also, as far as possible, have a dialogue with China and try as a small country, but with its own voice to work where we can to create peace, to promote relaxation. Norway has had a role in such situations before and has confidence to be a stable and secure partner and a conversational partner, who is in spite of our small size, is being listened to. In the distribution, the Foreign Minister showed that the defence of Norway takes place along one main line — the national defence sector, the NATO collective defence, and bilateral support and reinforcement from close allies such as the United States. In the new long-term plan from the government, the focus was on bilateral support and reinforcements from close allies rather than in previous long-term plans. The central party is concerned about this displacement of responsibility in Norwegian defence policy. Norwegian presence is important. It's an important part of our security policy, and it's an important value that Norway is NATO in the north. It could also contribute to a lower voltage level. The central party believes that there is a great need to strengthen national defence rapidly, and is disappointed that the right-wing government has chosen a policy that shifts ever more responsibility for Norwegian defence preparedness to allies. There is no security for the Norwegian Threshold Defense Force. The recent agreement with the United States also suggests that more defence and security policy will be outsourced. The centre party will also underline the importance of Norwegian ownership and control, especially in our northern region. We have previously been through a hearing about Bergen Engines-saka, which until those degrees has revealed how damaging it might be to Norwegian interests about technology and ownership fall into the wrong hands. As stated in PST's threat assessment for 2021, the Russian and Chinese services are the main target of tragedy. The centre party is pleased that we in the North Region Communication managed to ensure a number of figures for the proposal that the government should adopt Norwegian ownership of critical infrastructure and ownership, and national control of natural resources in the North. It is a very important decision that has been taken, in spite of the Government Party's actions. Security policy developments will shape our choices and priorities in foreign policy over the next few years. In the light of today's security policy situation, with an increasingly cold relationship between East and West, it is not justified to experiment with the security policy frameworks of Norway. We have to stick with our allies in NATO and not build parallel structures. The centre party has had and has a critical hold on the EU's construction of an independent defence system. Cooperation in Europe is good, but developments on the defence side in the EU are hardly positive. There will be an extension of programmes and measures, and it will cost. This should be done within the framework of which the various countries have defence, and then it will be smaller for other tasks. France is the biggest driver. President Macron has stated that France is willing to share its resources before nuclear defence with other countries in Europe. I am afraid of the EU's parallel run before defence will not strengthen security in Europe, but will make policy more fragmented. NATO has been the world's most successful defence alliance, and for Norway it's not good news if NATO is weakened as a result of France's desire for an alliance in which they sit in the driver's seat. Norway depends on the United States and the United Kingdom as good allies. We have historical cooperation. We will continue to do so, and none of those countries are members of the EU. Developments around nuclear weapons in the world today are going in the wrong direction. Iran's decision on the enrichment of uranium against 60 pst. is a very alarming step in the wrong direction. It is also alarming that the United Kingdom is starting to upgrade. The central party believes that Norway must be an even stronger driver in the international community of disarmament work than this government has been in charge of so far. Maybe we're seeing a change now. There is no interest in Norway in new arms race. If the government had had a more positive view of ending Norway to its initiative to ban nuclear weapons, that alliance could also be an important platform to work towards upgrading and disarmament. In his statement on Monday, the Minister of Foreign Affairs said that the pandemic is a health crisis, but that he has also triggered a social and economic crisis. It strengthens other crises and has consequences for, inter alia: food security and poverty, which in turn increase the risk of conflict and instability. I'm with the Foreign Minister in it. The pandemic is ours and is a crisis in Western countries, but in many of the world's poorest countries, the pandemic is a disaster. The U.N. reports that the coronary apathy can double the number of people in an acute state. The center party believes that if food security is not guaranteed, it is useless to provide other assistance. Sold is the world's biggest health problem, and it will continue to increase. After several decades of gradual decline, since 2014, it has been an increase in the number of people living with persistent maturition certainty and chronic sult. In 2019, 690 million people experienced daily sales. According to David Beasley, the leader of the verda food program, an additional 270 million will grow after the corona epidemic. The worst thing is that there's enough food for everyone, if the distribution would be more fair. A series of large and serious studies in recent years have confirmed that support for agriculture in poor countries is the most important thing to do to reduce emissions, poverty, climate change and natural loss. Study Ceres2030 is a leading study in the field. Since 2016, the study has gone through hundreds of thousands of articles and reports from the last 20 years to find out how the world can most effectively eradicate hunger and extreme poverty by 2030, which is the goal, and what it will cost. The conclusion is that if the rich countries are supporting the world, 500 million small farmers can double their food production, and countries are doing the same, one can come very close to ending extreme poverty and swallowing and simultaneously tackle climate and natural crises that happen to be the poorest in the world. Climate change, silt, conflict and security policy have a direct link. Conflicts lead to food shortages, and vice versa: food shortages can lead to conflict. The lack of food can exacerbate existing social tensions, fire up under discontent and frustration and give Grobotn to extremist groups. The central party of Norway must focus on the fundamental issues of foreign policy. Climate adaptation and support for climate-friendly food production in poor countries are a good starting point, and it is exciting that Norway will hire the working group to work with climate change adaptation and security in the next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e1399	The vote will now be taken at the end of the debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance. 4 and 5 to go to voting. The first speaker after the vote is Petter Eide.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e1413	The size is then ready to go to voting and start with the remaining matters from Tuesday 20 April, case No. 9 and 10 on Agenda No 69.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e1425	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Kirsti Leirtrø on behalf of the Labour Party proposal No 2, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Progress Party Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that category B licence holders are also entitled to drive for category A1. A prerequisite shall be a minimum of 2 years’ entitlement to drive category B, and completion of theoretical and practical training courses at a traffic school.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e1449	Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the government to determine whether it should be easier to obtain a driving licence for a light motorcycle when one has a driving licence for a car. In such an investigation, issues relating to road safety, greenhouse gas emissions and other significant aspects need to be further considered.» The Greens have already given their support to the proposal. The party of progress has warned that they will support the proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e1475	The progress party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e1494	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 2, from Kirsti Leirtrø, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 1, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Progress Party and the Centre Party proposal No 3, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Progress Party proposed no. 4-6, from Siv Mossleth on behalf of the Centre Party proposed no. 7 and 8, by Arne Nävra on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 8, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for an annual national maximum price for commuters dependent on public transport such as buses, trams, T-Bahn and trains and to return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e1529	Proposal No. 6 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The deposit requests the government to introduce a refund payment for AutoPASS for ferries, with a deposit amount, equal to the AutoPASS scheme for tolls.’ Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e1546	Proposal No. 5 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to introduce an annual national maximum price for commuters who are dependent on the ferry and fast boat offer.’ The Socialist Left and Red have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e1563	Proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked by the government in the context of the State budget for 2022 to submit proposals to make all national and county roads free of charge and to compensate the county municipalities for the loss of income.’ Red has already received subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e1581	Proposal No. Four, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is requesting the introduction of a free ferry and fast boat system for non-road communities to the mainland and considering making all ferry connections with less than 100000 passengers free of charge annually.’ Red is in favour of the proposal. The Progress Party has already received subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e1600	Proposal No. 7, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a free sailing boat and ferry system for residents of continental communities.’ The centre party and Red have already received subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e1617	Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to submit a plan for ensuring and improving the provision of ferry and fast boat services along the coast.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e1634	Proposal No. 2, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking to reduce the advance payment to AutoPASS for ferries to NOK 1 100.’; The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal. The centre party has already received subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e1665	The size then goes to voting on case No. 1-3 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e1677	A total of 20 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1-4, by Åsunn Lyngedal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 5-8, by Åsunn Lyngedal, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 9-12, from Bengt Rune Strifeldt on behalf of the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 13 and 20, from Åsunn Lyngedal on behalf of the Labour Party proposed no. 14-19, from Torgeir Knag County on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 18, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to decide and propose to introduce the same tax advantage for electric boat as for electric car.’ The Greens have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e1712	Proposal No. 14, 15, 17 and 19, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up an expert unit with top expertise in green public procurement to assist the state, municipalities and local authorities.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government requests the introduction of zero emission requirements for all short sea and zero or low-emission routes on all longer distances’.» Proposal No. 17 sounds: «The government is asked to propose the phase-in of zero emission criteria in new public bids for ferry services. Furthermore, the government is asked to propose the phase-in of zero emission criteria in new public tenders for high-speed craft and to submit a phase-in plan for zero and low-emission, respectively, for other shipping in new public tenders. The size also asks the government to submit a plan for the introduction of zero and low emission requirements in other shipping.’» Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government asks the Government to propose a national port plan on how to equip ports in order to contribute to the development of industry and efficient green logistics solutions.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e1746	Proposal No. 16, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for a new concession system for cruise ships, with strict environmental requirements for coastal and fjord navigation, and requirements for the use of local food and competence. Concessions shall be granted with requirements for low emissions and zero emissions in terms of visibility.’» The Greens have already given their support to the proposal. Red has already received subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e1765	Proposal No. 13, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the establishment of an expert unit in maritime climate and environmental technologies and maritime tenders, from which states and state agencies can benefit in their procurement of ships. Consideration should be given to whether the supplier development programme can play this role. The unit shall also be responsible for the preparation of a ‘best practice’ for tenders, for example assessing whether both construction and operation should be included in the same tender.’;» The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e1783	Proposal No. 9-12, from the Progress Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government requests the strengthening of the Norwegian Seafarer’s subsidy scheme by removing the applicable ceilings/restrictions in the scheme permanently.’; Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to initiate the legislative process of the current Norwegian Seafarer Grant Scheme in order to ensure the necessary predictability.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked to simplify the Norwegian Seafarer’s subsidy scheme by reducing the number of grant models from eight to three models.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to work to ensure that vessels carrying out transport operations in new maritime industries in Norwegian waters and on Norwegian seabeds should also be subject to the Norwegian seafarers’ subsidy scheme.’ Red has already given its support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e1817	Proposal No. 5, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government is asked to establish a national sectoral agreement between industry, authorities, instruments, research environments and other parts of the maritime cluster which ensures that Norway builds up industry, competence, jobs and exportable technologies for floating sea winds. A national measure of at least 3 GW installed power shall be set by 2030.» The Greens have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e1834	Proposal No. 6-8, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen State power’s equity in order to build a basic infrastructure for the production and distribution of green hydrogen.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for lower off-shore emissions from the offshore fleet and from marine vessels, including sub-contractors. The requirement must be designed to ensure step-by-step phase-in of best available technology.’;» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to consider imposing stricter requirements on shipping companies receiving grants under the subsidy scheme for employment of seafarers to contribute to the practice of relevant training courses.’; The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e1863	Proposal No. 20, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that there is no authorisation to carry cargo or passengers between Norwegian ports or to set a regular route with passengers between Norwegian and foreign ports for ships registered in the Norwegian international ship register.’ The centre party, the environmental party Dei Green and Red have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e1880	Proposal No. 1-4, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to follow as soon as possible the recommendations of the Maritime Committee of the Parties, in its report dated 19 March 2021, and to make proposals establishing the principle that Norwegian wage and working conditions are to be taken into account for work on a Norwegian base and in Norwegian waters.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that Norwegian salary and working conditions are required for those who have their work on board supply, standby and anchor management vessels related to rightholders, operators and others engaged in activities on Norwegian base which are subject to the Petroleum Act.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to make visible and to use the EEA Agreement’s action space with a view to benefiting a large part of the value-added from public contracts to the Norwegian maritime industry.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to put forward a strategy to ensure that public works contracts in the maritime sector are delivered to Norwegian shipyards as far as possible.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2010	There will be a vote on I-IV and XIV-XVII. Right, Left and Christian People's Party have warned that they want to speak against.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2024	V-XIII will be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2034	It's going to be over XVIII.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2051	A total of four proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1-4, from the Bears of Moxnes on behalf of Red. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate low-carbon tourism through, inter alia, ensuring night and night connections with the rest of the world and good public transport solutions that take tourists to the world heritage fjords.’ The Greens have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2077	Alternatively, between the recommendation and the proposal No. One-three, from Red. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to make regulatory changes that reverse the changes to the NIS Code so that NIS-registered ships can no longer operate in cruise traffic along the Norwegian coast or on Svalbard.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to give municipalities the possibility to allow cruise ships only with Norwegian pay and working conditions in their ports.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government requests the introduction of requirements for the use of zero-emission technology on all cruise ships in Norwegian territorial waters. Derogations are granted for NOR-registered ships, which shall be emission-free in the world heritage fjords from 2026 and throughout the territorial waters of Norway in 2030.»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2111	During the debate, Nils Kristen Sandtrøen presented a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government immediately to ensure that the hub and agricultural trade unions together produce a systematic approach aimed at students and secondary schools, which ensures the recruitment and training of young people for agricultural summer jobs.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2128	The Committee had recommended that the Storting should do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2136	Right, Left and Christian People's Party have warned that they want to speak against.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2148	Continued with handling of
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2164	The vote is therefore complete, and Stortinget goes back to dealing with the matter No. 4 and 5 on today's map. The next speaker is Petter Eide.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2169	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a good presentation. Actually, I think it was good. I also think the Foreign Minister over these years has had a very factual and knowledge-oriented meeting with the Stortinget, and also with great respect for those who may disagree with her in some points of view. So I want to distance myself from the representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde's posts instead and his hoaxing both of the diplomatic corps and, to some extent, of the aid industry, which I myself have been a part of and led for many years. I don't know myself again at all in a series of things that he took up. The objective of foreign policy is to serve Norwegian interests as point one, but not just that; the objective of foreign policy is also to be value-based, solidarity, idealistic and to strengthen human rights and international law. These objectives relate to a certain degree. It may be in Norwegian interest to be idealistic and value-based, but it may also be that, in some cases, Norwegian interests should not be confused with foreign policy choices, precisely because consideration for the population of other countries may be more important than Norwegian interests. SV believes that if these objectives are against each other, in some contexts, what is best for others does not necessarily have to be best for Norway. Here, we're dividing ourselves diametrically from the article to Tybring-Gjedde earlier today. Let me illustrate this with a little reflection around Myanmar. The situation in Myanmar escalated very much in February, the military regime regained control, very brutally, and struck down hard on all protests. The military do what they can to prevent the will of the people – widespread use of violence against the population. I have three specific challenges for the foreign minister about this, because the situation in Myanmar is not just about what Norway is doing in the Security Council and our multilateral work; it is also about Norway's bilateral, that is, direct, relationship with Myanmar and Norwegian actors. Point one: a new shadow rule has now been established in Myanmar, the so-called National Unity Government, led by democratically elected political leaders, among others. Aung San Suu Kyi, and they have representatives from also ethnic peoples around the country. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: How does the Minister for Foreign Affairs view this shadow government as an important actor, and in what way does the Norwegian U.D. want to cooperate with this shadow government? My challenge number two is about supporting civil society. There's still a civil society in Myanmar. I myself have been to Myanmar under a former military dictatorship and know that there are opportunities for civil society to further develop some democratic arrangements. In what way does the government want to step up efforts to increase support for civil society, in order to put in place and support local groups that can fight for freedom and democracy? It will then be interesting about Norway, for example. will go in and work against the very few free media that are in Myanmar. Norway has a long and good tradition of supporting media development in Myanmar. Is there something you want to keep going? The third is perhaps the most important: we need to avoid financial support for the military regime in order to be consistent in our handling in Myanmar. Now it has become known that the oil fund, which is our savings, has invested in an Indian company that has close ties to the military regime in Myanmar. The Aid Act, which is in the U.D., has revealed that Norfund is a partner in a bank that is criticized for having a close relationship with the military in Myanmar. SV believes that we have to act in agreement. If we want a democratic development in Myanmar, and if we want to remove the military regime, then there must not be Norwegian interests governed by the Norwegian state on which the military regime can serve. Then is my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: How will she now ensure and take the initiative that Norwegian money does not help to strengthen the military regime?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2188	First, I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a very good and thorough presentation. I would particularly like to stress that it was very good at climate and women's rights, as good as I have hardly heard any other promises of those themes in the debate. I guess that means that it was thoroughly and really presented. I am also very positive that we have a foreign minister who stresses so strongly that human rights are under pressure, and that covid has been involved in putting human rights under pressure. I think maybe the two biggest challenges the world society faces when this pandemic is over are all the lost generations in school and the weaknesses of democracy. I only have five minutes, and there's a lot I could plan to raise, but there's a lot of representatives who have raised many themes in a good way, and to which I can join – both Myanmar, as SV's representative did, and the situation in Russia, as Tetzschner did in a very good way. These are concerns I share. I would like to comment on something that I have said before, namely that there is something covid has shown us, that is how important cooperation is, where to get to the short nation state. For a small country like Norway, we had no chance of getting either the vaccine supply we have, or getting the equipment we have, if we had not been willing to cooperate and trade with other countries. It's saved lives. So when I'm going to pick a topic that concerns me a lot, it's China's role and the way China has strengthened over the last couple of years. The fact that we have had an American president who has allowed China to strengthen, both through the position they have, and through the moral position they have taken in public vocabulary. What has happened in Hong Kong is extremely frightening, and it is frightening how democracy can be overturned in such a short time. It is frightening how a dictatorship addresses a democratic population. It helps to weaken the view that all parts of the world can have well-functioning democracies. We needed Hong Kong to show that it is also possible in this geographical area to have well-functioning democracies, and now I'm worried about what's the next step. China managed that piece of art it was creating a pandemic, and then making a narrative that as a dictatorship they were the best to stop it. No, the fact that you have dictatorships that don't allow transparency, and that don't allow open debate, creates pandemics. That's what was the big threat here, that we didn't get to stop this much earlier. The fact that we now see that the dictatorship in China is capable of making a narrative that they are the best to deal with pandemics is completely wrong. And they chose to use the opportunity to defeat democracy in Hong Kong. Now I'm really worried about Taiwan. I'm worried about the democracy they've had for a long time. I've been to the presidential election in Taiwan, to a sister party that was elected through free democratic elections. The fact that Trump was involved in strengthening China, the fact that China has used the pandemic to strengthen its seas, and the position they are taking in the international community now, I believe has frightening perspectives. It's not like human rights are relative – if you're good at one thing, you can choose to be really bad at something else. I remember when SV representatives in this room nominated Fidel Castro for the peace prize because he was so sabla good at health policy. It's not that if a head of state is good at health policy, you don't care about the other human rights of your citizens. But a little bit like that, China has built its image -- because they've been with and raised some of the population out of poverty, it doesn't do much to assault other parts of the population. No, democracy is not something to be taken for granted. The dictators have used the pandemic to strengthen their seas. Schools are weakened, foundations are weakened, and democracies are weakened. It's our job to raise those values.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2209	I would like to start by thanking the Foreign Minister for a good and informative statement – again. So I'll spend the time talking about the situation in Belarus, also called Belarus. In the country that's half an hour's flight from us, the situation is also corona-related, and the regime's ever-changing argument around the pandemic is part of the rug. From the first to say that the pandemic was intrigued to then say that it could be handled with sauna, vodka or a work session on the tractor, to then use the pandemic as a pretext for further curtailing the freedom of people, all this became instrumental in giving people enough of the man who has run the country by iron hand over a quarter of a hundred years. We remember all the mobilization in advance and after last year's elections, where the regime used electoral fraud, lies and prisons of candidates. Once again they chose to exclaim Aleksandr Lukashenko as president of the country. But the opposition believes that the election result was rigged, and that the real winner was Svetlana Tikhanovskaya, who is exiled in Lithuania. As is known for this hall, she never had a goal of becoming president, and she will use the role of one thing: ensuring a real and open democracy and fair elections. We are in constant contact with the Action Committee, or the Co-ordination Council, for the democratic movement, where more people now operate from exile. They report dramatic abuses and arbitrary prisons of people who participated in peaceful demonstrations after the election. The last messages are that they identify people from video recordings and images of the demonstrations and look them up at home for arrests. The Belarusians don't give up, but they depend on the international community not forgetting them so that Lukashenko's regime succeeds in the recipe they've used over and over again, that's to frighten silence and resignation. This time they can't succeed. Such passengers in a hijacked aircraft cannot protest openly against the terrorists – as they put it themselves – they have had to change the way they work in order to promote peaceful processes. Belarus is thirsting for change. At the same time, Lukashenko's regime is tightening the grip. Recent restrictions were adopted in the law on extremism and anti-state activity. Once these laws have been passed, there is reason to fear that the regime will define the Coordinating Council as an extremist organisation and tighten the grip further with imprisonment, torture and inhumane treatment. There are now a large number of political prisoners in Belarus, and mothers with children are also being held under unbearable conditions – no mattresses, no showering, no letters or packages, the light of day. At the same time, law on lawyers has been amended, and lawyers who have defended people from the democratic movement have arbitrarily lost their license. Many of them are among the best lawyers in the country. Last week, the Coordination Council sent a letter to the Norwegian Embassy in Kiev expressing strong concern about the development of the work and security of the democratic movement. The letter is signed by Svetlana Tikhanovskaya, head of Democratic Belarus, and Svetlana Aleksijevich, Nobel Prize winner in literature. The Coordinating Council underlines that it was formed and operates exclusively on a legal basis, based on constitutional law and democratic and humane values. They have never initiated or encouraged violent actions. During the uprisings of autumn and winter, violence was also carried out by police and security forces – read the KGB. They consider attempts to link the Council of Coordination to criminal acts and extremist acts as a provocation. In spite of this, the Co-ordination Council continues its work on freedom and democracy and calls on the attention of the international community to help resolve the political crisis in the country and help the people finally gain their freedom and choose their leaders freely. Any regime based on lies and oppression will sooner or later fall. The illegitimate President Lukashenko has been keeping his people in chains for a quarter of a century now. Let us stand with the people and with the Coordinating Council and use our opportunity to exert pressure on the regime. Perhaps some have followed the television series Weissensee, which shows some of the methods of the East German Stasi. These methods are confusingly similar to the methods now used by the Belarusian KGB. This is not history, good co-representatives, it happens now, in a neighboring country not far from us, and it happens in our part of the world, Europe. Finally, I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for his positive commitment and encourage the Storting and the government to keep the focus on this important matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2238	First of all, I would just like to make a brief comment on the statements made by Mr Tybring-Gjedde. He is, of course, in his full right to bring the characteristics of other people, but I must say that a 10 minute tiger with a general and powerful personal attack on named persons, and where he also believes that almost all the Norwegian diplomatic corps are of the same calibre to which he refers, I think with respect that reporting does not belong in the storeroom, especially because the named persons are not here and can object. Then I will move on to the theme of the day, namely the debate on the presentation. I thank you for both pleasant feedback on the presentation and good cooperation, and I look forward to continuing that cooperation with the committee also after the election. There's a great deal of consensus about the long lines here, and I'm really just going to refer to my presentation for the most part, because it's so extensive that most of the things to say were said there. But I would like to stress that the commitment shown by the Stortinget and the Committee – both as a committee and through various delegations – to democratic work also in our immediate vicinity is of great importance. I don't want to in any way underplay the importance of engagement through, for example. Parliamentary delegations, and I just want to encourage the Storting to continue that work. The second is that there is a very clear picture, where I believe Norway is also very well positioned. It is becoming increasingly important to protect multilateral and binding international cooperation. It is not without reason that in the big message I presented about it, I said that protecting multilateral cooperation is Norway's main foreign policy interest. I know that, and I think it's the best way we can take care of our interests. We are expanding our cooperation with close allies, whether the United States, the United Kingdom, Germany, France, the Netherlands or the Nordic countries. We have taken seats in the UN Security Council and work there with our relatives and others, and we are building alliances across, just to take care of both Norwegian and global interests. We work through our steering position in the IAEA for disarmament, we work on two specific projects: verification and irreversibleity, which I talked about in my presentation. And we work through the Security Council with the same questions. In other words, it is a clear and clear line in Norwegian foreign policy. So I just want to use the opportunity to answer the questions that the representative Petter Eide had. In a very short time, the established shadowing has actually achieved several things. One is that the Chinese have also had contact with them, and that is important in this regard. We're also going to have contact with them, and we're now experiencing a relatively interesting development, where ten of Myanmar's largest rebel groups have joined the movement of democracy. How it's going to evolve further is, of course, too early to say, but at least it's an interesting development. When it comes to supporting civil society, we and other related people work to figure out how we can best continue to support. As the representative knows, we have frozen the state-to-state aid and what is involved in supporting the military regime or the authorities, but we are maintaining the humanitarian, and we are, of course, also maintaining what is involved in peace building, democratic development and civil society. But I'm not going to underestimate that it's hard to get it right now, because the room is being restricted. That's why we have to think creatively about how we're going to do it, and how we're going to be able to support the different groups, and media is part of it. Then I don't have a detailed overview of Norfund's investments, since it's under the Secretary of Development, but of course it can come back to both the Minister of Development and I. So finally, we're in a situation now that we're going to have to live with the aftereffects of the pandemic for a long time. It's going to shape the way we work, and it's going to shape the way the world deals with small and big challenges. I can say with a great deal of certainty that many of the challenges we see today, where the protection of human rights goes in the wrong direction, where we see authoritarian leaders taking on more power, where we see that women, girls and vulnerable groups are disproportionately affected by what is happening now, I'm afraid are developments we must have over a long time. Then it's our task together to try to do something about it. We can't do everything, we can't solve everything, but we can contribute in a way that makes the situation we see today easier. That is also one of the reasons why this year we have a record high humanitarian budget, of 6.3 billion. kr, because the proportion of people in the world who need humanitarian aid and protection continues to increase.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2257	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2262	Thanks to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for what I thought was a good contribution. I'm going to ask a question about something she didn't raise here, the Palestine question. It was also not mentioned in the big presentation. It's kind of strange, all the time Norway is now in the Security Council, and also with the new American administration. So also in this area, there's an opportunity for change. This government says they're concerned with balance, but in a number of areas, we see that the balance is constantly being pushed on. When the Granavolden Declaration arrived, Harald Stanghelle wrote in the evening post that this was «a solid shoulder clapping to Benjamin Netanyahu uncompromising Israel». Also in the right we see that it has been a glide flight. In the programme design, Israel was the only country outside the Nordic region to receive positive publicity. When the foreign minister was asked about it, she seemed to break and replied that this was just a draft. Now the second draft has also come, and also here Israel is the only country outside the Nordic region that has received positive publicity. Is it possible to understand the final draft of the Right Programme in any way other than that the right here has changed its positions?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2269	Yes, of course. As in the Workers' Party, party democracy is also living in the Right. We're going to have a national meeting later, in May, and then I expect these and other questions to be discussed. Then it's quite right, as the Aukrus representative says, that there are opportunities for change in the dynamics of the region, and that's positive. One is the normalization agreements that Israel has concluded with a number of countries, which both the previous and the current US administration have thought to be a positive factor. I agree. The second is that the Americans are now resuming economic and political support and dialogue with the Palestinians. I think it is also important, because it helps in many ways to continue the work that both Norway and others have been very committed to finding a two-state solution. It's not easy in the current situation, and especially not because the positions are pretty tight. But the cooperation between the authorities in Israel and Palestine is also resumed, and I am looking at that with some cautious optimism. And Norway is continuing the engagement through AHLC.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2276	That it is not easy, I fully agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and neither is her responsibility that it is not easy. And it's, as she says, positive that the Americans are now back in UNRWA, and that it's a crucial year we're going into, not least with Palestinian elections through multiple stages. Nevertheless, I do not read the Foreign Minister in any other way than that she is still a little broken by what is in the Right Party Programme – she indicates that it is party democracy, and that we are now going to see what is happening at the national meeting – because, as she knows very well, the nuances, the details and the use of words mean a lot. And so here Israel is the only country that has received positive publicity. The Palestinians are only mentioned in one word, and it is in an estimation of countries that are no longer eligible for support, with different criteria. There's not one word about occupation, not one word about a two-state solution, and not one word about balance. What does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think is the reason why the right here has changed the policy from what has been the current policy in what they went to elections four years ago?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2284	The August representative has asked the exact same question for up to several questions and debates. I'm not going to get involved in what the programme committee has been thinking, and so, as I said, we have a party democracy in the party. I'm not going to short-term the discussions we're going to have at the national meeting. I don't think that would be very popular at the National Labour Party meeting if it had been done in advance. There is no change in the policy of either the Right or the Government. We have a balanced Middle East policy. We believe it serves both Norwegian interests and the interests of the countries in a good way. We have the roles we have because both parties want us to have them, and we do those roles in a good way. Now that the Americans have also come back to where they were before, it also obviously has a positive impact on what we can do. At the same time, I don't think we're going to have any illusions that the Americans are going to prioritize this very high. It's a domestic policy situation in the United States that's going to be given priority, but at least there's a positive signal in terms of the commitment of the Americans.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2293	It's interesting to be in a debate where everyone is so touchingly agreed, and where you celebrate each other. It's probably the first time I've experienced it in this room, but it's maybe classic for foreign policy in Norway that you have to mean the same thing, and if you don't mean the same thing, there's something wrong with someone who has a different view of things. When it comes to the foreign minister's words from the pulpit, they're actually wrong. Everything I said up there is publicly available information, and it is not that you can only speak in this room if you are present, because then there would have been a rather hopeless debate. You actually have the right to get involved. But that's not my question, because there was a comment, so it doesn't have to be commented by the Secretary of State. But if I know her right, she wants it. I want to know if Norway voted to bring Iran into the United Nations Commission on Women's Rights. We're a member of what's called ECOSOC.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2302	In line with the UN procedural rules, it is a secret choice, but now that Iran is elected to that position, of course, we are going to use all the opportunity we have to hold them accountable also for women's rights. There's something else we're doing both through the Human Rights Council, we're doing it bilaterally, and we've also used the occasion lately to deal with specific issues with especially female human rights activists who are in prison. I had a conversation with my Iranian colleague in February where this was the topic, and we will continue to do so in the United Nations system as well. My point was not that the representative Tybring-Gjede said, not public information. My point was just that there were quite strong personality traits against people who are not here and can protest. That's what I think it's nice to use the Great Council chair for, but of course, as I said, it's up to the representative himself to express exactly what he wants. This is also not representative of the competent and dedicated diplomatic corps of Norway, which take care of Norwegian interests every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2309	Firstly, I disagree with what is said. It was not a personal attack, it was documented information that I used. It was not something I found or got hold of at a lucuba pub somewhere. It was public information, and it wasn't even speculations, it was simply information from the history of the Norwegian political, diplomatic corps, that's got jobs out. Then you have to ask yourself if we are the most sovereign in the world to have all these positions in the public organizations. I don't think we are. I actually think people from other countries could lead them so well, but we're the ones who get them. Human Rights Watch has now been out there saying that they want clarity about who voted to get Iran into the United Nations Commission on Women's Rights, and a few of the countries have begun to give in. They've at least said that they might say it, even though it's a secret choice. If the Foreign Minister doesn't want to say what Norway voted for, I'll take it as if we actually voted in favour. I think it's in the right place that we're taking a distance from this and not saying that you want to work inwards, but actually says outwards that this is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2316	Norway's attitude to Iran's violation of human rights is well known, and there has been a position, a policy, from Norway every year, and as Iran has tightened up in many areas, so has our criticism. In some other areas there have been some improvements in periods, but then there has been a wrong direction again. Then we say it clearly and clearly, and of course it also has implications for our policy towards Iran. It is in international policy that working for a country to change its position is rarely best done alone. That's why we work through both the United Nations system and other channels to get it done. That's where we work with our relatives and like-minded people, but that's not enough anymore. In fact, we also have to work with other countries that do not always share our views, in order to bring about change, for example. in the case of the human rights situation, whether in Iran or China. In conclusion, I would like to strike a blow for Norwegian diplomats and others who have good positions out there because they are competent.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2325	In my speech, I referred to the foreign minister’s statement that points to the relationship between poverty, food security and what the pandemic has triggered, but also to look at the security against climate change. A main Norwegian priority in the Security Council is, as I understand it, to create greater acceptance that there is a link between climate change and security, and I think it is very good that it is lifted. It was also well said by the Foreign Minister that there was a positive dynamics in this, perhaps because many countries actually know what is happening to the body. Norway shall hire the working group to work on this important theme. The question then is: will the Foreign Minister raise the link between climate change, solst, conflict and security as a much more important theme in Norwegian foreign and aid policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2332	We are working, as the representative rightly says, with this in the Security Council and trying to get a better knowledge base into the Security Council, as a way to get more people on board – that the issue is real. There are some members of the Security Council, to be said, who believe that this does not belong to the classic tasks of the Council, but I think most people see it. I dare to venture the claim that one of the first to start talking about this, was actually the Pentagon in the United States, which saw that climate change led to so great both population movements and conflict potential that they were very clear that if no more money was spent on aid and humanitarian aid, they had to spend more money on ammunition – a little bit explained. Last Monday, the government presented a strategy for climate adaptation, prevention and hunger reduction. It really goes right into this work, because we see the need to drive climate adaptation, which is also an important part of the Paris Agreement, while at the same time remedying both the humanitarian consequences of climate change and the security consequences of climate change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2339	I took up the unfortunate situation in my post that both the oil fund and Norfund are involved in transactions or investments that lead to increased interaction with the military regime in Myanmar. I have full respect for the fact that the Minister for Foreign Affairs does not know the details about this – neither do I – but I am nevertheless concerned about getting a signal and a kind of principle from the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether she believes it is acceptable that Norwegian public funds, either through the oil fund or Norfund, help to strengthen a military regime that we strongly distance ourselves from. I would also like to ask her if she will investigate this further and, if necessary, take the initiative to influence, so that Norwegian money from either the oil fund or Norfund, or other types of aid, does not help to strengthen the military regime.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2344	It's a bit too complex a question to just answer yes or no, but we always have a expectation from the Norwegian side that, for example. Norwegian enterprises operating in complex countries comply with OECD principles and UN principles for responsible business abroad. It is a very clear expectation both we and other departments put to Norwegian business, whether they have state ownership or not. As I had in my previous answer, I do not have enough information about what investments this is in that case to give a yes/no response to it, but I am probably quite sure that the Minister of Development is already looking at this with regard to Norfund. And if he hasn't already done so, of course I'll talk to him about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2349	With that, the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2354	It was right, and it was good, that the Minister of Foreign Affairs, in his statement, also pointed to the Nordic region as important for Norwegian foreign policy. We can all call the work in the Nordic countries as our close foreign policy. I'll characterize it as. Our goal is that the Nordic region should be Europe's most integrated region, and the Nordic region is, of course, respected in Europe – and in the world, I might say – for our common identity, our history and our democratic culture. Now the Foreign Minister has also said that the pandemic has shown the challenges in magnifying glass in many places, and I want to take it into consideration in this article, even though we are going to get closer to the debate on integrated work in the Nordic region in a later debate in this session, also into the perspective of foreign policy. Because it's true, as has been said, that the pandemic has triggered a lot of questions related to not being able to cooperate adequately in the Nordic region, as we think Nordic cooperation should be. Cooperation has not demonstrated in a strong enough and good way the cooperation that points towards a good culture in what can be called an integrated area in Europe. Now I would like to stress, and we all do so, that we are fully aware that, as far as foreign policy and national policy are concerned, it is of course such that the decisions taken in a nation must have the right to do on their own basis. Of course we do. But what is my point and my important point is: as a leader of the Nordic delegation to the Nordic Council, I want to say that it should not be so, even if we have that principle heavily in place, that it stands in the way of taking proper and necessary account of each other when we take national decisions in a time of crisis. In the Nordic Council environment, we have clearly seen a significant degree of aggression linked to the fact that this is not the case, in the opinion of many, and that is an unnecessary development. That's my essential point in this post. For national decisions in times of crisis, which are now, do not harm or harm the citizens of other countries in the Nordic region without being handled in a relevant and correct manner. Now, of course, I am fully aware that this also applies to other government councils, other constitutional areas, but I am deliberately taking it into the foreign debate to – hopefully – get the Foreign Minister's explanation of the principles about this at a later stage. That's what I'm after, and that's why I'm saying what I'm saying. The next thing I want to say is that this pandemic also shows economic and social development – a little in the Nordic region, but also in Europe – pointing towards increasing disparities. It will be important for Norwegian foreign policy in the future to have a conscious relationship to work towards the non-enhancing and non-binding of this inequality, for everyone knows what it can mean for European political culture if confidence between the population and the authorities is weakened because of precisely this which is linked to the development of inequality. Finally, I would just like to say: the representative Michael Tetzschner believes that a red-green government can become unsafe in terms of foreign policy. I think that is unreasonable. The Workers' Party is the guarantor of the whole main line of policy. I breathe and say that from the representative Tybring-Gjedde's posts, when I heard it – and then I don't think exactly of his personal characteristics of people, but the line and spirit of what he said – I think that the situation on that side can be at least as challenging as it will be on the red-green side. I really would have stressed that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2372	I would also like to thank the Foreign Minister for a good presentation, and I intend to stick to the debate on it. It is obvious that the government ensures the proper care of Norwegian interests and the consideration of the complicated world in which we are. What is worrying is that we see an opposition that increasingly cast doubt on our main foreign policy carriers. This applies particularly to the EEA, but also to other issues relating to safety cooperation with our closest allies in NATO. The Centre Party in particular has been affected by allergy to anything traceable to Brussels. It's disturbing, but it's also weird. If there's one thing this pandemic has taught us, it's that alone time doesn't work. It's only through cooperation we fight the infection, and only together we can lift our economies and societies out of the situation we're in now. As explained by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Norway is an active driver of the global release of vaccines through COVAX and of the control of the pandemic through the so-called Access to COVID-19 Tools Accelerator, ACT-A. For our own part, it is, in particular, through cooperation with the EU along several lines that the management of the pandemic is ongoing. We are included in EU crisis management and participate fully in a number of organisations and places where the pandemic response develops at a European level. In addition, Norway is part of the EU Common Vaccine Strategy. As far as the latter is concerned, we do not exclude criticism from the EU, and it is positive that political decisions are subject to critical review. It is no wonder that we become impatient when we have gradually understood that immunisation through vaccination is the only way out of the health damage of covid-19. Let that be said right away: the vaccination in Norway is now well under way, and it is thanks to our cooperation with the European Union. At the same time, it is important to point out that the EU vaccine strategy is certainly not everything that has been optimal. However, there is little evidence to suggest that Norway had made a different plan. Opponents of the EU at home have tried to spare their arguments on this particular issue. Reference is made to the fact that countries such as Israel and the United Kingdom have currently vaccinated a greater proportion of their population than Norway, and that is true. Nevertheless, we cannot compare ourselves to neither Israel nor the United Kingdom. The British have had a large self-production of vaccines. Israel has concluded specific agreements with producers at an early stage, but it is doubtful that Norway would have been offered or would have had the opportunity to participate in within the framework of Norwegian data protection. All the favors of our British and Israeli friends, but we couldn't go the same way as they did. When parties such as the Center Party refer to Norwegian vaccine cooperation with Israel, I wonder at one thing: how would it feel to land at Ben Gurion International Airport with the diplomatic baggage full of local decisions to boycott Israel and cooperation plans with parties that will unilaterally recognise Palestine as a state? Reality is anyway another. As a very informative comment from minervanett.no on 9 April, Norwegian alone would probably place us in the same situation as Canada, a country that is slowing down in relation to the Norwegian vaccine rate. Then I would like to remind the Central Party that national vaccine production was just put under the red-green. And in its eagerness to talk about self-sufficiency and encourage us in Norway to be ourselves enough, the Center Party is jumping over the fact that it was under the red-green that national vaccine production was shut down in Norway. There's light at the end of the tunnel and sun in the horizon for those who had to look out. As the Foreign Minister explained, we expect stablely high deliveries from Pfizer in the second quarter, together with over two million doses. We also expect Moderna to continue to increase its deliveries in Europe. Unfortunately, opponents of the EEA and the EU will not end with their criticism, even if the vaccine strategy proves to be successful. If that's what we've learned, it's that those who want less European cooperation for Norway just find new approaches. Vaccines are just one of several tracks being followed. Another has been to try to doubt the constitutional requirements of the EEA Agreement by attacking the EU railway package. This track was recently rejected by the Supreme Court, but you continue. However, the tests do not stop for that reason, and we also hear that No to the EU intends to try something similar to the Acer energy agency.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2400	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a good presentation. I want to use the opportunity to say something about the OSSE PA's functioning. The annual report provides a good overview of what the organisation is doing. First of all, we have a very active delegation, led by Siv Mossleth, and Torill Eidsheim, special rapporteur for Arctic conditions, doing a very good job of anchoring climate and environmental policies in all the committees. And it's noticed that Norway is so active, and that we're doing our job and contributing to the OSCE PA's debates. In the OSCE, serious conflicts develop negatively, both between countries and countries: Ukraine and Russia are now in a critical phase. Azerbaijan and Armenia have also failed in their peace process; it is still unstable. We know the conflicts in Georgia, Belarus and Russia. The OSCE PA is on the offer side to its fellow MEPs in those countries in order to resolve these locked conflicts. There have been meetings, such as: I have participated in, with the Belarusian exile delegation, the Tikhanovskaya exile delegation, Volkov, the head of the Navalny Election Organisation, to name a few. What they're giving of signals is that international organizations and countries don't have to stop worrying. While perhaps the most serious is the extreme right-wing forces and conspiracy theories that have been particularly visible in the United States, but that exist in all countries, including our own. It's basically a struggle for truth, and it's perhaps the most important fight of all. I hope the government points to its message in this area, both in the OSCE context and here at home. The Prime Minister has become known for his expression ‘I would not use exactly those words’, and it shows that she acknowledges that words have meaning. Therefore, we must clearly and unreservedly address all attempts to communicate conspiracy theories and hate expressions. During the U.S. elections, these came clearly to the surface. Two quite different descriptions of reality were presented and culminated in the storming of Congress. The division between perceptions of reality lives in the best of all, including in our country. Fortunately, election observations have been a work that was carried on despite pandemic restrictions. Even I was the head of the OSCE PA's observer corps in November in the United States, and the ODIHR and the OSCE PA's observation of elections was absolutely crucial to bringing clear messages to the world. Our conclusion was a crucial contribution to subduing the conspiratory forces. There were no systematic errors or irregularities in the election in the United States. Countries associated with the OSCE have common challenges, such as: ensuring the freedom of the media and the freedom of journalists to write what they want. Recently, a journalist was shot and killed in Greece, and we see a very worrying development in several countries, among others. in Turkey and Russia, where the freedom of journalists and political opponents is very, very narrow. We also see that gender equality in many countries goes wrong, and examples of it are countries like Poland. But they're not alone. We need to be more propelling women's reproductive health and women's right to self-determine that health than we do today. Finally, I would like to point out the mission team of the OSCE and the economy. The OSCE mission team is doing a good job in the countries they operate. It may be difficult, but individuals can live safer lives based on the work done by the missionary teams. To contribute to the drafting of laws in line with international commitments, and to the involvement of the police, for example: gaining knowledge of gender equality and human rights in their education are examples of how the missionary teams work. Employee involvement combined with the basic commitments to which the OSCE countries have joined leads to results. But funding is a challenge. Some countries appear to use funding as an instrument to achieve policy objectives. Undermining the importance of the organisation may be such a goal. Correspondence must be to provide sufficient funding so that the organisation can actually carry out the tasks assigned to the OSCE by the countries concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2421	First, I must be allowed to thank the Foreign Minister for a very insightful presentation. If there is some time after the wall has taught us, it is that Norwegian and to the extent that the West's security and defence policy cannot be aligned after whether it blows hot or cold from the east. Historical experience has to be taken into account, and the most likely situation to be faced over the next 20 to 30 years. As now Norway is a small country in a dangerous world, as former foreign minister Knut Frydenlund of the Workers' Party said. Yesterday, President Putin gave his speech to the nation. At the same time, on the same day, three of Navalnyj's closest employees were arrested, and Ukraine is surrounded by an estimated 120 000 soldiers. It is Russia that challenges stability in Europe. Norway also has to deal with this. Russia, following the fall of the Soviet Union, has specialized in creating unstable situations at its borders. In the Russian mindset, unstable limits are an access for the strongest party to use its strongest right. Putin said something very eye-catching and interesting in his speech yesterday: no one has to cross Russia's red line, we decide where it goes. The understanding of the red line by international law is the frontier of the nation state. In this statement, there is an expression of Russia’s understanding and Russia’s right to its neighbouring countries, namely to limit the sovereignty of neighbouring countries and to limit neighbouring countries’ freedom to choose their alliance. We have a border of 198 km to Russia. We're lying there, we've got a great power next door. But in the absence of the deaf, we must also remember the areas in which we cooperate well with Russia, in fisheries, coastguards, environmental issues and people-to-people cooperation. Then we might remember in these slightly depressing times that it's actually only 18 months since Norway and Russia marked the liberation of Finnmark, where there were constructive talks between Foreign Minister Eriksen Soreide and Lavrov. I noticed that last year's presentation did not mention the President of the United States by name – perhaps for good reason. I notice that in this year's presentation the Foreign Minister mentions the current President, Biden, several times – perhaps for good reason. The first 100 days of the bid have been hopeful. We see a recognizable United States, a United States entering into international agreements and international organisations, and not least – and that is important for Norway – we see a United States of America with renewed interest in NATO. The Minister for Foreign Affairs notes: 'There is no doubt that the United States is Norway's most important ally. Security policy developments have made it necessary to renew and strengthen our defence agreements with the United States. A 70-year-long cooperation has been manifested and further manifested in the agreement that the government presented last week, facilitating US military activity at some selected Norwegian military locations, and where there is also an opportunity for US infrastructure investment. But let's say: Norwegian basic policy is firm. Norwegian basic policy is not an international agreement. Nor is Norwegian basic policy an agreement with Russia. It is Norway itself that defines the content of Norwegian basic policies. But if our defence policy and the defence concept on which we are based are to have an opinion, we must also be able to facilitate ally's reception, ally's storage and ally's training in peacetime. Then we have a defence policy that is in the best interests of the nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2440	The Coronapandemy put an end to the trip last year, but not to the meetings. In the EFTA Parliamentary Committee we met via the screen. Among other things, we have discussed the importance of the pandemic for international trade, the global value chains and the EFTA negotiations. Unfortunately, we had to postpone a planned visit to Thailand, with which EFTA resumes negotiations, but conducted a Teams meeting with the colleagues in the Thai Parliament and the government. Brexit has, of course, also been on the EFTA agenda for the past year, as it has done in the Committee on Europe and in the Minister for Foreign Affairs' European statements. EFTA reached its 60th anniversary last year, which was scheduled to be marked later in the year, in a new building in Brussels. But it has to be later. On the other hand, the EFTA has been given the task of renewing and improving the chapter on sustainability of trade agreements. For the first time, the parliamentary committee and the social partners were involved in the work on the chapter and listened to. This is the first time. It's a joyous development. The same applies to the work on making EFTA more open to trade policy. EFTA has been too closed. In the EFTA Parliamentary Committee, we have for several years called on the EFTA Ministers to look to the EU for greater transparency and information on trade policy. We now see positive signs of change in EFTA as well. So it remains to be seen how this evolves in practice. It also has to be followed up by the government here at home. One of the great joys of last year is that the Minister of Industry did not give priority to the meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly during the Ministerial meeting last autumn. Trade policy is higher on the political agenda in general. The concern about the negative impacts of globalisation on distribution, the environment and climate creates a stronger commitment. The United States' fear of China's development from being an economy that copies others, to an innovative economy, is interpreted as a threat. Lack of understanding of the interdependence of economies of large countries does not seem to have disappeared with Trump. When former security adviser Bolton warns us against concluding a trade agreement with China, that is a bad advice. It must be better to develop trade links on the basis of an agreement than without it. Because no one imagines that Norwegian business is not going to be able to export to China? When discussing whether to conclude a trade agreement with different countries, it seems to me that without an agreement, there will be no trade. It's the opposite. It begins with trade and exports. The need for and the need for a trade agreement stems from the desire for greater market access for the Norwegian export industry and the need for legislation to safeguard workers’ rights, environmental considerations and climate. Increased political attention to trade policy requires more transparency in order to create more insight and a broader debate. Prior to this debate, the members of the Foreign Affairs Committee received a trade policy presentation from the Trade Campaign, a number of organisations with different interests in trade policy. There are many interesting points of view in that statement, but also views and allegations that need to be echoed in a stronger public debate and transparency, from the authorities and, not least, from the export-oriented industry. There are still too many who misinterpret the term ‘free trade’. A free trade agreement does not give freedom, it regulates trade – in recent years more and more the focus on employee rights, environmental considerations, climate, consumer protection and standards. During this period, we have changed the task of the European Committee to include trade policy in general, as we were today briefed on the negotiations for a trade agreement with the United Kingdom. The involvement of the EFTA Committee and the European Committee is becoming more important, but we also need to strengthen the involvement of the other committees of the European Parliament – the Business Committee, the Financial Committee, the Labour and Social Committee and the Foreign Affairs Committee. In recent years, the International Department here in Stortinget has built up considerable expertise in trade policy and the EEA. It must make use of several committees in the field of trade policy in the future. Finally, like the representative of Kolberg, let me reassure Mr Tetzschner as to the concern about the future of the EEA Agreement with the Labour Party in government. I think the debate today gives rise to a lot of concern about the political parliamentary basis of the foreign policy of the current government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2468	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2473	The Minister of Foreign Affairs' thorough presentation showed the breadth and complexity of the foreign and security policy situation, with the rapid pace of change and the unforeseeableness we face globally. International cooperation is therefore more important than ever. A dominant feature is that geopolitics and geoeconomy are increasingly flowing together in a new major act game, for which China, in particular, is one of the exponents. The fact that it is no longer possible to see the economy and security as separated has consequences for many countries, including those we cooperate with in Asia. The increasing number of spaghetti countries between the United States and Europe as security anchors and increasing economic dependence on China puts alliance bands to the test. The pandemic has hit the world economy and the European economy very hard. We've become familiar with terms like oral oromucosal diplomacy and vaccine diplomacy. One aspect among many is the concern that the crisis has made strategically important activities and technologies more vulnerable and vulnerable than others to third-country procurement. There was a background for the EU to tighten up in 2020 the regulatory framework for the screening of foreign direct investment. The European Commission now encourages Member States to use all available tools at EU and national level in this work. It also has an estimate of Norwegian reality. Foreign direct investment is initially a good thing, but not all such investment is equally desirable. It is about finding the balance between transparency and the preservation of legitimate security interests and preventing and preventing investment and ownership in strategic sectors that could provide countries with which we do not have a security policy cooperation, an influence in Norway that is not in our interest. Probably we should focus on a wider range of foreign direct investment than those regulated by the Security Act, capture them at a previous stage and, not least, put them into a larger context. Thus, from 2020, the EU has introduced new guidelines for the screening of foreign investment, involving a systematic review, including filtering mechanisms for foreign direct investment in enterprises and technologies that are critical to EU countries, and also a system for the exchange of information between countries. As I understand it, Norway is in this context for a foreign actor to calculate. However, although the screening regulation is not EEA-relevant, it has implications for the internal market and may be very useful for Norway to be part of. There should therefore be good reasons why Norway is seeking to link up with this mechanism. To establish something like this on their own keel may be significantly heavier for Norway and may not give the same effect. I hope this is something the government considers, and that the Foreign Minister might comment. Would Norway like to participate in this cooperation if the EU agrees to include us?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2482	Today is Earth's day, or Earth Day, and we should congratulate each other on that. We should also note that today, on Earth's day, there is a summit that began when we were to vote, to which the President of the United States, Joe Biden, has invited, and where very many Heads of State and Government, including our own, are taking part. I've followed it a little bit, and with regard to international cooperation on climate and the transformation that results from the recognition that we're in the process of exceeding the planet's tolerance limits, there's actually a lot of reason for optimism. It's a point of light in one otherwise rather fragile and complex world that so many are gathered there, and that in many ways now there is a race to the top where there was a race to the bottom in the past, because very much of the economic competition we're going to see in the rest of this century, seems to be gripping the technologies that make the world go from fossil to renewable and from use to circular economy and re-use. This is going to shape all the elements of foreign policy, I think we can be quite sure of. It will affect what the aid policy looks like, because we need to help developing countries to choose a direction that will ensure that they are not locked up in an old economy that the rich countries are leaving, and it will obviously have to shape trade policy, which my colleague Svein Roald Hansen was in. There is no doubt that the interaction between climate objectives and trade policy becomes a much clearer topic, for example: in the World Trade Organisation, and cooperation between the United States and the EU if it becomes important to follow. That being said, we also have a long period of strategic competition between major powers, not least between China and the United States. We can mean that what we want, but that's a fact we're going to have to relate to. Strategic competition is partly security policy, but above all it is economic and technological. These are artificial intelligence, communication technology and all the new command heights in the economy. What I think may be one of the most important things for all countries involved in international cooperation must be involved in, is to restore the ability that we actually had during the Cold War to agree and disagree at the same time, that is, to distinguish between those areas where it is right to take a clear position and mark disagreements, such as democracy and human rights, and areas where there is no alternative to cooperate, such as: within climate or global health. It may seem obvious, but there is no automation in being able to distinguish between the two themes. It requires a high degree of foreign policy maturity and a high degree of ability to see the long lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2495	From 1949 until today, 47 countries have joined each other four times a year in Strasbourg, and the Council of Europe is gathered to confront, debate and commit each other to concluded conventions. Norway has a delegation of five solids and five articles, all ten of which are actively involved in the work of the Council of Europe. The year that has passed has been special. From March last year, the covid-19 pandemic also had its mark on the work in PACE. All out-of-year meetings were conducted digitally, but the assembly has also managed to change quickly and equip itself to carry out most of the work and mandates via digital platforms, including voting. The working forms were changed and the legislation was amended to allow as much normal operation as possible, including for the committees. After going to digital meetings, of course, the divisions were also cancelled and replaced by the meetings of standing committees. The Committees adopt resolutions in the same way as in plenary, but could not make an immediate choice, as it was in the past. I, the undersigned, have managed the work of the Rules Committee, as it is called, so that we could sort this out in the exceptional circumstances, so that all the political groups and national delegations of the Assembly could support it, and that we could conduct divisions digitally, including through voting. The Council of Europe Assembly took a quick look at the consequences of the pandemic. Both the members of the Grand Duchy, the other countries and the Council of Europe as an organisation have been particularly concerned with the crisis management of the Member States and that it should not be done at the expense of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. And Norway stands out from the fact that power is still in the Stortinget. Many other countries did not do it the same way. The delegation has considered with concern how some Member States, as part of the crisis management process, chose to temporarily derogate from the agreed and concluded European Convention on Human Rights, and how, in several cases, the administrative powers surrounded Parliament and its control functions. I would like to say that the Norwegian delegation has participated both in being rapporteurs and in an election observation in Georgia where the representative Jette Christensen participated. We have also had representatives from our delegation who have been able to be reporters in some countries. It is a place where we confront and debate, and that is absolutely necessary as developments are in some Member States.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2510	The previous foreign policy debate in the United Kingdom was on 12 March last year. At that time, the chairman of the Committee began to talk about countries in Africa having now introduced quarantine rules against Norway. Then Michael Tetzschner came up with touching comments on what Korona had to do with international debate, and that the Minister of Health was actually not present. A few hours later, Norway closed down, and since then there has been the all-encompassing debate in all international debates. If there's something we've really learned, it's that what's happening in the world affects us at home as well. The Corona must lead to more international cooperation, not less. We now know that we're not done with this pandemic until all the other countries are. As long as that pandemic exists, it's a threat to us. This is the case in a number of areas of international policy, and most clearly in the climate crisis. There we depend on all countries contributing. We only succeed if all the other countries do more. There is, as Espen Barth Eide said, something positive happened in the last year, not least at the American elections, that Biden today has its climate summit, and that he has just doubled the American climate goals. He says he's going to invest in millions of jobs while he's going to halve the emissions. It's just a good news. But at the same time, we have to make sure that Norway does not end up in the back, both in our climate efforts and in the opportunities that that gives us. The right-wing parties tend to argue that the Workers' Party wants the State to be more active in industrial policy. We say we need to be more active to help create jobs while cutting emissions, because that's what's happening in Europe, and that's what's happening in the United States. When other countries now do more, Norway should do the same. In Palestine, we see a glider. There is no other way to interpret the Granavolden Declaration and the Right Party Programme, even if the Foreign Minister is confused when she gets the question, and actually answers other things. Why else should the land of Israel be the only country that is positively mentioned? It is clear that it is a matter of policy. She just indicates that the Right Program has not been finally adopted. I have not asked her to short-term the process, but I hope she contributes internally in the Right, raises her voice at the Right National Meeting and says that this does not strike the balance point. This is not true where Norway should be. It's a paradox that while the situation on the ground is getting worse, the report from the right-hand side is getting more and more positive. Let me conclude by saying that I believe this debate shows that we need a new gift in foreign policy. The right-wing parties have used the entire debate to characterise the opposition. At the same time, it is a paradox that what has been the Right Chosen Partner and Support Player, the Advance Party, is the only ones who say they represent an alternative to today's government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2521	With reference to the previous post by the representative of Åsmund Aukrust, I'm a little worried when he says about my post last year, which I don't remember exactly that way, that it should have been particularly annoying. But of course, you have to be humble when you listen to an expert in being sensitive to someone else's posts. What I may have said, on the other hand, is something that I still stand by, and that the Foreign Minister was also quite wise in his statement: ‘In the face of global crises, we may be at risk of exaggerating the very unique and historic nature of the changes we experience. It is not difficult to find short-term rashes of a major political nature, but it is not certain that the geopolitical effects of covid-19 historically become as dominant as we now think. That's exactly why we have a foreign policy debate and not just an extension of the covid-19 debate in all its variants, although no one – I don't think so – last year acknowledged that it has great significance. What we're gathered for here today is just to address the challenges that don't go away when the government has fought in a very successful way – yes, perhaps the best of all in the world – this pandemic for our own people. What I am, on the other hand, not at all harselling, but really is uncertain about, is what a red-green government will bring with it by partners in the government, which is, of course, against the wires we have to keep Norway as close as possible to the like-minded and democratic countries with which we cooperate, both in terms of security, trade, culture and otherwise. There we have a list of what these parties as the Workers' Party are going to gain access to government offices, want in a situation where the Workers' Party itself is weakened and may be the minority of the government. It's just to study all of these representatives' proposals that have been promoted in the period we're now done, because it gives us a hint of what's waiting for us. These include: Breaking energy policy cooperation, preventing the EU's 4th railway package, which is a stabilisation and safety certification that makes us safer, faster and better rail across Europe. It's running away from the commitments we have in the EEA Agreement to contribute to development in other countries, it's stopping NorthConnect. That's how I could take area by area. The belief that the Workers' Party in the government is able to stand up to this is what makes me insecure, not the insurance from the Workers' Party that they are going to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2536	As head of the Great Britain delegation to ASEP and AIPA, in the daily Asia delegation, I would like to brief you a little bit about the work last year and this year. The pandemic changed the premises of the international delegations' plans and programmes. For the Asia delegation, this has meant that neither the ASEP meeting in Cambodia nor the AIPA Parliamentary Assembly in Vietnam could be held physically. The latter was held digitally with Norway as a guest. The same applies to meetings with partners and networks in Norway, such as the ambassadors for ASEAN countries and Norwegian business operators with heavy involvement in Asia. However, the delegation has tried to keep up with the activity and contact via digital meetings and activities. We have held several digital seminars here at Stortinget with Asia- and China-related themes. The delegation has the ambition to support the ongoing work at authority level by further developing and strengthening Norway’s cooperation with Asian countries — a region in which a number of important processes are in progress, including: with negotiations on trade agreements and a new period for the sectoral dialogue partnership with ASEAN. Last autumn, the Stortinget was taken up as a permanent observer in the ASEAN Parliamentary Assembly, AIPA. The Asia delegation achieved its main strategic objective for the four-year period. As an observer, we are given a formal role and a completely different position in cooperation with some of Norway's main trading partners and countries with which we share a community of interests, in particular with regard to the observance of a world order governed by rules, international institutions and the work on sustainability objectives. Not least, we also come into a community with observer countries, such as the United States and Japan. Japan, China, Korea, Australia, New Zealand and Russia, to name a few. It can give us a valuable input into dialogue on bilateral interests. So far in 2021, as a new observer, we have had a useful planning meeting with the AIPA Secretary-General, an introductory meeting with all ten ASEAN parliaments, and we have participated in an international seminar on handguns under the auspices of the AIPA. The pillars of the AIPA cooperation in the future will be sustainability, in particular energy and climate, seas, women and gender equality, trade and business, parliamentary representativeness, legislative and regulatory control and, of course, visitation exchanges. In addition, there is an interest in bringing together experiences on pandemic management. Given a positive pandemic trend, the plan is to attend the 42nd General Assembly of AIPA in Brunei and the ASEP Delegation in Cambodia later this year. Since this is the last round of reporting on the work of the international delegations in this session, on behalf of the delegation, I would like to thank the other international delegations, the Grand President and the U.D. for very good cooperation, and the international department for excellent support and organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2557	I have noticed that the representatives of the Workers' Party have expressed a concern about cohesion in matters of foreign and security policy on the civil side. Yes, if you listen to the representative Tybring-Gjedde, that may be the reason, but the representative Tybring-Gedde is a private-practice foreign politician in the Progress Party who goes across his own party. I noticed that in his posts he used several times “I”, “I”, “I”. I insisted that he did not use the word “Fremskrittspartei”, because he was elected from that party and was set to target the Foreign and Defence Policy of the Advance Party. The representative of Tybring-Gjedde forgets that while the ruins of the Second World War continued to flow, Norway was also interested in and, in fact, a driver for the restoration of the international legal order and the establishment of international organisations. Norwegian interests are safeguarded through alliances, partnerships, cooperation and an international legal order. The resistance that Tybring-Gjedde has against the Security Council is amazing. What is the alternative? Is it forgotten that the Security Council is the only body responsible for war and peace, which has the right to take binding decisions under international law? What are we going to replace the UN with? What are we going to replace the Security Council with? What is particularly alarming is that, at times when we see that the major powers are increasingly rivalling, where international law and international law are under pressure, where small states have their first line defence in international law and through international cooperation, we are calling for this to be built down. No, foreign policy is not just about putting Norway first, but it is about caring for Norwegian interests through cooperation with others. Norway does not live in a vacuum. A Norwegian alone without friends can strike back strongly.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2564	I would like to take the opportunity to thank you for a good and, for the most part, constructive debate. There are a lot of issues that have been affected, and I'm just going to try to answer a few very few of the topics of the debate, and I'm sorry that there's going to be something exciting, but that's necessarily when you have to answer to the end. I note that the representative of August still believes that the government is unbalanced in its Middle East policy. I have never, in my four years as Minister of Foreign Affairs, experienced getting one question from the Aukrust representative who has a different approach than only Palestine. If you're going to be concerned first with the Middle East policy balance, which the government is doing very well, then maybe there's somewhere else you have to look for imbalances than exactly with the government. Then the representative of Auverst will also address climate issues in a commendable manner. Today’s climate summit is a very good example, but also the fact that Norway was both early — almost first of all by Western countries — in tightening up climate targets while at the same time embracing the European greens so that we can participate, with our technology and our businesses to create a climate-neutral continent. There is a lot to say about what Kari Henriksen said about the OSCE. We are the fourth largest contributor of voluntary contributions to the EU, Germany and the United States. We give particular priority to the field work, which I know the representative Henriksen is also very concerned about, and which is one of the most important things we can actually prioritise. The representative Barth Eide was concerned about the important point of being able to agree and disagree at the same time. This is true in many contexts, and I think perhaps some of the most important example we have in Norway is our constant balance with Russia – whether it is about the issue of cooperation where we can, but at the same time have a clear and clear deterrent where it is necessary, or to point out gross violations of human rights, where I believe the political prosecution of Aleksei Navalnyj may now be the very best example along with mass arrests of demonstrators, while at the same time being able to have a good and constructive neighbourhood and cooperation on, for example, for example. fisheries management. Both parts go, you just have to draw up the good lines, which I think we in Norway have done for many decades. So finally, to the representative Kolberg, I agree with the importance of Nordic cooperation, and if there's something the pandemic has shown us, it's actually that Nordic cooperation is both very vital and works. We work closely together politically, we work closely together at the office level, and today the news also came that we are lending AstraZeneca vaccines on request from Sweden and Iceland. We have to take into account each other when making decisions, but at the same time we also have to understand that we have been in a little different situations through the pandemic in terms of infection, and that must be taken into account by each country. In the end, I also very much agree with the point that Martin Kolberg has about trust. I think trust between government and population might be the most important thing that gets us through both the pandemic and other great trials in a better way than some other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2581	I also felt a need to comment on parts of the post from the representative Tybring-Gjedde, who is not here in the room now, but it may well be he is coming on the TV screen. The accusations he filed against some named Norwegian top bureaucrats, I believe, are quite unacceptable. We have a very solid office in Norway. Many of us have experience that they serve every government as best they can, in a proper and professional way, and with a clear border between what is politics and what is office. I would like to join the Foreign Minister's comments on this, that it is widely shared in this Chamber. Then I want to acknowledge the post that was kept from the Right when it comes to Tybring-Gjedde. The idea that every country has the best on its own is very important that we together say no. In fact, it is essentially best to cooperate with other countries. It's not always that cooperation with other countries brings us fast to every goal, but in the long run it creates a much better world, and it's very central to us. That's why I'm reacting a little to Michael Tetzschner's point towards the Workers' Party. I noticed that he wanted to talk about the most important issues in foreign policy and therefore not necessarily about health. Then he ended up talking about the opposition, so it's possible he thinks the opposition is the most important topic of foreign policy. But there is no doubt that for the Workers' Party it is categorical and general – this has also been underlined several times by our party leader – that we do not want to be in a government that is at stake in the EEA agreement. The working party strongly believes in the Norwegian model, the Nordic model, with small differences, high trust, with tripartite cooperation, with everyone at work, and we are very aware that this model includes a very important insight, namely that openness to the world is a prerequisite. We sell to the world. We're buying from the world. We have a very open economy, much more open relative to GDP than most other countries. Then we have to have an organized relationship with our closest. It is currently called EEA. The only option for the EEA is to be more – not less – integrated into Europe. The last time I checked, it was not on the agenda, and therefore there is still a collection about the EEA in a government led by Jonas Gahr Støre and the Workers' Party. I have some experience with this, because I put in four different roles, first as Secretary of State, then as Council of State in the previous Red-Green government with exactly the same parties. We decided these questions quickly and clearly, and we'll probably do it again if there's a new red-green government. There is something quite different than pointing out that we are going to use the space for action, because it is a great potential to pursue an even more active European policy and take advantage of the opportunities that the EEA Agreement actually provides.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2592	Michael Tetzschner has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2597	I was about to decline when I heard the first part of Barth Eide's posts, but then the visit came to me where he obviously must have misunderstood what was my concern. It is the weakened situation of the Workers' Party and the fact that they are now estimating tones such as to exploit the space for action in the EEA Agreement. It's not to expand our cooperation. It's to reserve against it, not to follow up. It's just to have a mental reservation for what's an important collaboration. It is the very uncertain picture of the future that is being offered to us, also by the representative Barth Eide, although I believe that he can also speak reason to some of his potentials – I will not use the word ‘co-conspirator’, but that is what came up. I also hope that Barth Eide, as the very informed man he is, has read that the relationship of strength between the Workers' Party and the other parties he is going to bring in is dramatically distorted from a European point of view.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2604	First, to answer the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who thought that my questions asked her, in her time as Minister for Foreign Affairs, were unbalanced: My questions have been about what has been the substance of government policy. It is clear that my attacks on government policy are just about the imbalance that has occurred in the question of Israel and Palestine. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is still unable to answer why it is so, why Norway is right, that the only country to be mentioned in the Government Declaration should be Israel. The only country in all countries in the world to be positively highlighted, it is Israel – at a time when the occupation policy is constantly getting worse. I did not read it in any other way than that it is a handshake to the Advancement Party and the Christian People's Party, to Christian Tybring-Gjedde, to the Countess and others who have brought this up internally. That's why it gets more serious when the Right Party Programme is going to say the exact same thing, unless the Foreign Minister is now going to raise his voice internally in the Right and say that this does not hit the balance point. If she reads the Labour Party's policy, I think she will see that there will be another Middle East policy, for the core of our policy, which was adopted at our national meeting last weekend, is about what is at the heart of the conflict, namely the occupation, while, of course, there is also quite legitimate criticism of things going on on on the Palestinian side. So in the end, since this is the last foreign policy statement in this period, and hopefully the last foreign minister of today is holding – but we're probably going to have exciting debates here in Stortinget – I just want to say that this debate has revealed that we need to give a new one. During this debate, representatives of the right-hand side have largely talked about the opposition and tried to make a scare picture of what happens if Jonas Gahr Støre becomes prime minister in Norway. If they go in and read their own posts, I think they'll see that the claims they throw out fall on their own unfairness. I think we got it illustrated in the last post from Michael Tetzschner, when he attacked the Workers' Party to talk about the room for action in the EEA Agreement. I assume that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is very concerned with the scope of action in the EEA Agreement. After all, any government should be concerned about what kind of action space Norway has internationally. There's something quite different than saying that we're putting the EEA Agreement into play. Those who criticize and have the highest voice against the government are the Progress Party. Right-wing representatives believe that Christian Tybring-Gjedde should not be seen as a politician – he is a private practitioner, has been told. He has for two periods been the highest appointed foreign policy of the Progress Party. Of course we have to take what he says seriously. Finally, I hope we get debates on foreign policy in the election campaign as well. That's good for Norway. The big lines are fixed, but it's important that we also use time in an election campaign to discuss foreign policy and what separates us. In a number of areas, we'll get a new gift, a new energy, if there's a government change, and Jonas Gahr Støre will be Prime Minister after September 13.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2619	I know that the Committee also has other issues to deal with now, but I cannot, however, free myself from the temptation to simply ask Mr August which parts of the Middle East policy are now unbalanced. Is that the support we give to the Palestinians? No, it can hardly be, because it's at the same level as it's been for very many years. Could that be our political leadership in AHLC? No, it can't be. We've been leading it for a lot of years, and we're still doing it. Could it be the intake we have in both Palestinians and Israelis to try to find solutions to everything from practical tax issues and the fact that the Palestinians are going to accept the money the Israelis collect on their behalf to the far bigger and more difficult issues associated with a two-state solution? For me, it's quite amazing that these attacks are coming over and over again, but without any substance other than that Israel is the only country mentioned in the Granavolden Declaration. Time and again I have also tried to challenge the Auversut representative on what is now the tipping point or another balance point. We have a close relationship with both Israelis and Palestinians. The roles and tasks we have in the Middle East, we have because both sides want us to have it. Not both parties would have wanted it if they felt that Norway was unbalanced. We continue that commitment because the parties will, and because we have something we can contribute, and it's based on the long story we have with a balanced approach to the Middle East. That means that, on the one hand, we criticize both occupation, violations of international law and settlements. We also criticize the fact that the Palestinians have not held elections for 15 years. That is what is at the heart of the balance of Norwegian Middle East policy, which has been there through various governments. You can't get anywhere in the Middle East if you can't maintain a balance where you're meeting, criticise what's to be criticized, and support what's positive. Then one loses influence and relevance in the Middle East. Our point has been to maintain it all the way. There is a lot to be said about the peace agreement or the talks that President Trump initiated. But that the normalization agreements have created a new dynamic in the region, there can be no doubt about it. That is also what the Palestinians think best friends are. At the same time, we have an unbridled political situation in which the Israelis had elections on 23 March, the fourth elections in two years, and the Palestinians are scheduled to have elections in three rounds to come. That means that the space to get political solutions can get smaller over a period of time because both are in election mode. But the balance in Norwegian Middle East policy is firm.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2632	The representative of Åsmund Aukrust has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2637	After all, I hoped that when the Foreign Minister now signed up completely at the bottom of the debate, she would actually come up with an answer. There was no answer, there was just a lot of attack on me and the Workers' Party. I asked, why is it that Israel should be the only country to be mentioned positively? We did not get an answer to that. I see she now hassles that it is the only working party that is concerned about. Well, she's such a capable foreign politician that she knows that words matter. When there is one country in the world that is referred to positively in the Government Declaration and in the Right Programme, that is clearly important. But she was also asked in which other areas we see it. We've seen it in several areas. Under the red-green government, a number of new initiatives were taken. Now it's like Norway is dilting by other countries. It's not about going to the front, it's about not hanging out. We can see that, among other things. on the labelling of substitutive products, as many other countries in Europe do. Norway does not. In connection with last year's state budget, the Minister of Foreign Affairs chose to explore with the support of UNRWA, while the Americans also cut off. It got a lot of attention. I see her shaking her head, but she can read what happened in the state budget negotiations with the Progress Party. It was cut to UNRWA. It was the Labour Party against, and it is also an example of a loss of balance.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2648	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Four and five.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2672	Let me first thank the Committee for its cooperation with the vote on the Central Party's proposal for a representative, which concerns, among other things. helicopter support on Bardufoss. A total of four different proposals were made. It is a fact that the presidency refused proposal No. 1 promoted to treatment as this has previously been treated in the Intrinsian Storting. 87 S for 2020-2021 to Prop. 14 S for 2020-2021, the long-term defence plan. As a result of the presidency's decision, only the proposals are proposed by the original foreign representative. 2 to 4 discussed in the Committee. The representative proposal provides for the maintenance of helicopters and competencies until the new squadron is established on Bardufoss, transfer helicopter hulls and crews to Bardufoss and remove the Defense Helicopter Support with Bell helicopters to the police from Back. The army’s need for helicopter support and the special forces’ need for helicopters were addressed in the long-term plan in autumn 2020. The decision states that the Army shall have its own dedicated helicopter support, organized in a separate squadron on Bardufoss, to support and cooperate with the Army: ‘The Government is requested by the Government in connection with the planned acquisition of new helicopters to the Special Forces from 2024, also to acquire new helicopters for dedicated helicopter support for the Army. The new helicopters shall be organised in a squadron on Rygge, and a squadron on Bardufoss to support and interact with the Army. The size asks the government to return to Stortinget with a separate case for the acquisition of the helicopters, including the number.» An overall committee perceives that the Minister of Defence's opinion in the matter shows that the Ministry of Defence is working to meet the Stortingen decision on helicopters for the Army and a squadron for Bardufoss, but there is also unanimity in the committee. A majority of the government parties and the Advance Party stress that the Army's need for helicopter support, with this decision I just referred to, is being met. If the situation so warrants, the defence may, during periods, re-prioritise the use of its helicopters to other departments or other parts of the country, e.g. to support the Army in the north. This majority also notes that, in order to increase the helicopter capability of the defence, a framework agreement has been concluded for the lease-in of civil helicopters which could provide additional support in addition to the defence itself. It is worth noting that a broad political majority supported the decisions in the long-term defence plan just a few months ago. Only the centre party and Red voted against the decision I just referred to. In addition, the centre party withdrew from the negotiations on the long-term plan. The fact that the party is now trying to raise doubts about the decisions underlying the future development of the Bardufoss squadron and the helicopter support for the Army may be because it is trying to limit the adverse effects of a potential loss of trust resulting from the withdrawal of negotiations, as also pointed out in a majority remark from the government parties and the Progress Party. I assume that the representatives of the Central Party will clarify this question for this room today. So it's a fact that a large majority went in to create a new quadron on Bardufoss, but it did not happen without the help or support of the Center Party. Finally, let me also comment on proposal No. Four, from the Central Party, that the police helicopters should take over the anti-terrorist preparedness of the police, which the Bell helicopters on Rygge have today. It can be discussed whether this will create uncertainty about preparedness in dealing with terrorist attacks and threats. Although police helicopters will have overall responsibility to support the police under strict mandate, it will be necessary for the defence to continue to be able to support the police with helicopters if necessary. The background to the agreed development of helicopter resources for defence is the need to strengthen preparedness, capacity and capacity in both peace, crisis and war. Support for the police in the context of sharp missions and terrorist incidents will always have to be within the Defence Force's capabilities. The Committee's recommendation is promoted by the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2698	One of the most important and key recommendations of the Gjørv Commission was to strengthen the ability of the special forces to contribute to counter-terrorism actions through enhanced helicopter access. Let me quote the Yawn Commission: ‘Rapid and effective helicopter support to the police in the context of counter-terrorism on Norwegian soil should become a dimensional task for the Defence. It should be assessed whether the defence should have additional support tasks for the police in the event of terrorist attacks.» Responsible policy is to take this strong recommendation seriously. It has also been done by the government; 15 of the 18 Bell helicopters of the Defense are now stationed on Rygge just to ensure the ability of the special forces to combat counter-terrorism and, if necessary, to remain silent in other types of crises. We must remember that one of the highest priority tasks of the Defence Agency in terms of civil support is at this very point, namely to provide the police with the necessary support they need to deal with serious crises and, in the worst case, terrorism. Helicopter readiness in the north is now in very good development. The majority of the parties at Stortinget during the negotiation of the long-term plan – those who took responsibility, i.e. the Governmental Parties, the Workers' Party and the Advance Party were agreed to establish a separate Helicopter Quadron for the Army at Bardufoss. Center Party and Red picked to position themselves on the side bar. The proposal of the Central Party is, in fact, a smoking of its own inadequacy and its own lack of political will to contribute to a good decision with regard to helicopters on Bardufoss, which has been put in place for a long time. Also on the civil side, there's a very good development in terms of helicopter in North Norway. There will be new rescue helicopters on Banak and Bodø, there will be a new helicopter base in Tromsø, there will have been ambulance helicopters in the Kirkenes, and there will be a separate agreement between the Defense and the Civilian, on which the representative Wold was in, that can be used to meet exceptional needs of the Defense. There is a continuous strengthening of helicopter standby and helicopter capacity in both South and North Norway. It is then quite serious and quite inconsequential that the Central Party chooses to promote this proposal. It is simply a denial of the recommendation of the Gjørv Commission to pretend that there will be no change in the army helicopters on Bardufoss, and it is ultimately a high political game that could, in the worst case, weaken the anti-terrorism capacity in the East, contrary to the recommendations of the Gjørv Commission.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2716	It was well expected that both the Progress Party and the Right were not just together in what the Center Party has come up with. They have made a proposal through the long-term plan together with the others to which they referred, which is actually quite non-committal in time. It says that one should start by purchasing new helicopters for the 2024 Special Forces, but it doesn't say anything about when the Army is going to get new helicopters. The Central Party has always been opposed to the decision to move its Defense Bell helicopters on Bardufoss southwards to Rygge. We have not objected to the special forces getting new helicopters, on the contrary. It's really very strange – if it's so important – that this government hasn't taken this grip before, because it's been a while since the acts of terror in this city and on the Utøya happened, and it's been a while since the Gjørv Commission made its recommendation. But now they've at least made the decision, and this has led to the defense's helicopter capacity in Troms having been significantly weakened under this government, through the move of Bell helicopters from Bardufoss to Rygge and an NH90 project that is more or less eternal. Even after almost eight years with today’s government, it is not close to being the resource it was supposed to be – neither in North Norway nor in the country otherwise. The aim of this representative proposal is to ensure that the helicopter competence that exists in the army today – which we are constantly getting alarmed that a bad thing to do, more specifically at the time at Bardufoss – will be taken care of. And of course, the aim is to ensure better preparedness in the north in the years to come. This is also the case – and I would like to stress this when a point is made that the Central Party did not participate in the broad agreement – that I cannot refer to the negotiations that happened before the agreement, but at least I can say so much that if it wasn't for the Center Party, the decision that is now made for the helicopter would not have been taken once. Because very much happened in a very strange process at all in the blink of an eye. But leave it alone, it's history. What is important now is that the majority decision actually confirms that no new helicopters will be acquired until early 2024, but it does not confirm when new helicopters will be in place. Obviously, those who have had and have services inside the quadron are becoming very uncertain, they have nothing to do with when they don't know anything anymore. Furthermore, it is clear that the squadron to be established on Bardufoss is directly connected to the acquisition of new helicopters. We're afraid that this can go out on time, we think it's strange about the security situation we have, and which characterizes north more than the environment we're in here in Oslo, that we should be the country that has an army without a helicopter – so to speak. Those who are there now are definitely at such a small minimum that we can almost not call it being a capacity. In his statement by the Minister of Defence, he refers to scarce access to resources and competences. At that time, the turbulence we felt during the management of the long-term plan – that the majority made a slightly binding proposal for a decision, which was agreed – was correct. We are afraid that the Army and the base of Bardufoss will end up in line when it involves access to helicopter capacity. The statement by the Minister of Defence, who is stated in the vote, does not make us calmer, I would say that he reinforces this unrest – that is, the statement made by the Minister of Defence when dealing with this proposal. It is claimed by a number of speakers that we are acting against professional advice and the Gjørv Commission. But there is more than enough professional advice to point out that we lack helicopter capacity in the north, and the consequences it has. So that argument is thin. What the Gjørv Commission did after July 22nd was to point out that helicopter preparedness in Austland was too bad. He is, of course, greatly strengthened and does not depend on the proposal we are discussing here today. So the government has made Norway the only NATO country with an army without a helicopter of its own. It's not good enough, and it's very clearly pointed out from the army and the county. The lifetime of Bell-helicoptera has actually gone too far in relation to what was estimated. They used to have a fix on them, but if the government was serious about this and they wanted to follow up the Gjørv Commission, they would of course have bought new helicopters and prioritised money for it. We have to remind ourselves that when a decision in the long term is now honoured, what was agreed is the least ambitious option for the next four years in relation to the option presented by the head of defence. The centre party would simply not give legitimacy to a long-term defence sector plan that did not enable the national defence to meet the challenges facing Norway more quickly than this plan proposes. So it was far from just a helicopter that was the reason why the Center Party did not find it advisable to continue negotiations with the government at that time. So according to the government – as they describe it – we have had the worst security situation since the end of the Cold War. The fact that the Central Party has greater ambitions for the Norwegian defence than the Solberg government is a fact. One can only look at our alternative budget. If it had been agreed, one could start at e.g. the acquisition of helicopters. I'm not going to spend any more time, but I'm just saying that the Center Party is making this proposal because we've been contacted by a lot of people who are desperate, many who have their work in Defense, and who feel that they don't know what future they are. The decision that the Storting has taken does not provide the clear clues, and now we have a real concern about what will happen to the exact competence. If one first builds up the environment on Bardufoss, we know it's quite demanding to rebuild it. I can certainly say that we do not get multiples for the proposal, but I do not want to find myself in being suspicious of the background for it, because it has its realities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2748	But then perhaps the representative will address the proposals she does not think she will receive support for?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2753	I will, and I would also say that we will subsidize the proposal of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2758	The representative, Liv Signe Navarsette, then brought up the proposals of the Centre Party alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2763	Let me first make it clear that the Army has helicopter support on Bardufoss in line with previous decisions. Through the decision taken by the Stortinget on 1 December last year, new helicopters will be acquired for the Army and a helicopter quadron will be established on Bardufoss. The establishment of a new squadron with a new type of helicopter on Bardufoss is seen in the context of the establishment of other capabilities requiring competence, which are being phased into the Air Force. In 2021, work on redeploying the Defence Bell 412 helicopters between Bardufoss and Rygge, in line with the previous decisions of the Storting, will be completed. This provides the basis for establishing a robust and competent helicopter compartment on Back specifically designed to support the special forces. This Title will, when fully operational, enhance the operational capability of the Special Forces of the Defence Forces to perform their military tasks, nationally and internationally, in addition to increasing the ability of the Special Forces to assist the police with relevant counter-terrorism capabilities, including maritime counter-terrorism. The tactical transport helicopter environment in Defence is small, and it has been necessary to bring together the helicopter and the competence environment to provide the special forces with the necessary support for the most demanding operations. When you are trained for the most demanding tasks to support the special forces, you can also do all the other tasks for the rest of your defense. If the situation so warrants, during periods, the Defence may re-prioritise the use of the Defence Helicopters to other departments or other parts of the country, including to support the Army. In addition, in order to increase the helicopter capacity of the defence, framework agreements have been concluded for the lease-in of civil helicopters, which could provide additional support, such as logistics support in rear areas, in addition to the defence’s own helicopters. The agreement was tested during the Trident Juncture exercise in 2018. It's working. The establishment of a new squadron shall be carried out in such a way as to optimise the adaptation of other agreed ambitions and the phasing-in of already decided capacities. The competence challenges associated with the Defense Helicopter Resources are complex. For the Army’s part, it is important to have competence to plan and carry out activities supported by helicopter resources. For the Air Force, the competence challenges include, inter alia: recruitment, training and training of pilots, technical staff and other support staff. As you know, Air Force helicopter pilots are trained in the United States, and there is limited access to training places. A new squadron will require an increased number of pilots, technical staff and support staff. We're going to get to this, this is going to be very good. So it's important to be aware that it takes time to train more personnel for a new squadron. So this has to be seen in the context of other bets. Helicopter readiness with Bell 412 in support of Bardufoss police was replaced by civil helicopters contracted by the Ministry of Justice and Defence from 1 May 2020. The government has provided the police in North Norway with helicopter standby at civil entry and has arranged for Bell 412 helicopters at Bardufoss to focus on military missions. This will provide better helicopter support for the Army. Today, the police have three own helicopters that can be used for search and monitoring, a sniper platform, and the transport of response personnel. The defense helicopter standby on Rygge is both configured and trained to carry out operations beyond pure transport operations, that is to say what was previously referred to as enforcement assistance. This means that the defence helicopter can assist the police in sharp operations, where the police have to be carried into an operation where, for example, shooting ongoing. Helicopter readiness on Rygge is also a very important element in resolving the defence mission within maritime counter-terrorism. That's probably not what you have the most focus on at Bardufoss, so I get a little bit of the discussion, but it's a national resource, which should be put in where we need it, if we need it. I would like to stress that rapid and effective helicopter support for the police requires that the helicopter standby at Back is maintained even during the phase-in of new material. So for preparedness in general: to strengthen rescue preparedness in North Norway, a new rescue helicopter base is established in Tromsø based on civil lease. The aim is to put the new rescue helicopter base into service during 2022. I would also like to remind you that the personnel of the Defense Rescue Helicopter Environment, the 330-square, are recruited from the same competence environment as all other aircraft systems in the Defense. In recent years, there has been a civil lease-in of helicopter capacity on Florø. The reason for this is that the 330-squaredron would be able to contribute staff to phase in the new rescue helicopters while maintaining the standby on the other five bases. I am sure that we will find good solutions to implement the Storting decision. And I'm glad we're getting a bigger tactical helicopter environment, which is also being strengthened at Bardufoss. Now we need to find good solutions for the future in terms of the competence challenges in the Air Force and the preservation of helicopter support for the Army. So, of course, it's possible to say what they're coming with. Well, the decision in Stortinget I read as very clear. We're ambitious and we're going to get new helicopter capacity for the special forces. In the same operation, we're going to make sure the Army has helicopter capacity. I think it's a good way to phase in the capacity. It is also such that it is numerical in relation to the capacity of the Air Force, which now works as some heroes to phase in, among other things. the new rescue helicopters. So I'm very pleased with the decision that was made in the long-term plan, and I'm very happy that the Storting just confirms that there's a good plan and a good bet we've agreed on there.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2793	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2798	Some of the arguments for moving helicopters from Bardufoss to Rygge have been that one needs so many helicopters to the special forces and the police. Now there are twelve Bell helicopters standing on the back. Two of them are well on standby for the special forces and the police with a response time of 60 minutes. Then there's a standby on Taraldrud with 15 minutes of response time, and in addition, there are rescue helicopters on the Back. The question I want to ask is, how many people from the emergency team and the defense of their special forces are on standby around the clock within an hour? Is it so that one fills the five helicopters, and would it be disastrous to move three helicopters from Back to Bardufoss?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2805	There is a wrong input to the problem. The reason why we rely on having 15 hulls down here is that these types of operations require extra staff even when you practice. The most important thing now is that we have hulls down here with the special forces, so that they can rehearse the counter-terrorism capacity. That is, you sometimes fly with two instead of one pilot and one mechanic. That is, you fly special exercises. It's the exercise element that's important. The strengths, the equipment, the material, but also the command control for a counter-terrorism operation to be used down here. They also practice elements in terms of maritime counter-terrorism, which they may initially have to do with other helicopters at an alarm, now they get practice on that part. The most important thing about this capacity and the reason why we need so many hulls is that we have to retrain a counter-terror capacity here for the special forces.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2811	When the Minister of Defense is so clear that one needs so many hulls to practice and train and be ready, it will mean that in the situation one has in the north, there is absolutely nothing for practice and training. When one has to have 15 helicopters on the Back to do that job, the government thinks the Army should be operational and train with three. This means that the Army does not really have anything to practice and train and is simply unprepared in a part of the country that has as great challenges as that part of the country now has. I can refer to the new agreement with the United States that was published online. I assume it's not for fun that the United States wants to make such an agreement. I can refer to situations with much more immediate military power from the east than you've seen before. Is it really so that it's good enough in the north?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2818	I have very much respect for the fact that we politicians should be interested in defence policy, and I have very much respect for the fact that we should focus on preparedness, but I'm not always as impressed with people who, to the degrees, are doubtful about what the professional military plans to do, and the head of defense says. When they go through the sketches they've made to rehearse the capacity of 15 hulls, it also includes machines that are in maintenance, and machines that are out on other things. But it's not like they're free from helicopters in the north. In the north there are three helicopters, and then we have released capacity for the Army. The machines that were previously on standby for the police are now released to the Army. The machine that stood for ambulances in the churches for months has been released from the Army. So here, we have freed up the defense with those Bell machines, and we've built up a helicopter stand in the part of the country that we've never seen before. I wouldn't be so worried if I was the representative of Navarsete.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2825	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2830	The condition for a modern, mobile, and powerful army is that it also has helicopter support. The Workers' Party is the guarantor of its own helicopters for the Army, stationed at Bardufoss and organized in a separate squadron. Last fall we were with us and took the job and responsibility for putting in place a decision on that very thing – for the benefit of the Army and for the benefit of North Norway. The Minister of Defense now said from the pulpit that the government would be ambitious in the follow-up to the decision on helicopter to the Army. We see that as a matter of course, and the Workers' Party will follow it up both outside government and in government. We are more than ready to take responsibility for the implementation of that decision in the government position from the autumn. The working party is willing to use the resources needed to ensure both the Army and the Special Forces proper helicopter support. During the transitional period until the helicopters are in place for both the Army and the Special Forces, it is clear that measures are needed to maintain and build competence on Bardufoss and possibly redispatch the air defence helicopters today. A new government for the autumn may seem to have to take strong action in the transition phase, but it may also be about other interventions, such as the use of drugs. during a shorter transitional period to rent, lease or purchase used Bell helicopters. Ensuring helicopter support at Bardufoss is more than ready for the Workers' Party to take responsibility for in the government position until the autumn. The working party has been against stretching the Army's helicopter support and moving helicopter from Bardufoss. We believe it is important that the Army has helicopter support. We have also worked widely to strengthen the defence in the north and the helicopter capacity in the north. There will also be a rescue helicopter base in place in Tromsø in 2022. It's high time. In the gap between the rescue helicopters in Bodø and Banak there has been a hole in the standby, which will now be sealed. The working party has been a driver for the defense to operate the rescue helicopter base in Tromsø, and we are very pleased that there is now a broad majority in Stortinget that says that the rescue helicopter base in Tromsø will be operated by the Defense when the contract with the civil supplier expires in 2028. It has been crucial for the Workers' Party. The Labour Party has primarily wanted the 330-square to operate the rescue helicopter base from day one, but the government, with the support of the Progress Party over a long time – at the latest in the state budget for 2021 – has assumed that the base should be operated civilly. So it's too late to change, and the most important thing for the Workers' Party to ensure people's safety has been that the base comes into place quickly. But I want to pay tribute to both the Advance Party and the government for being constructive, and that there will be a broad majority for the Defense to operate the base when the contract with the civil operator expires in 2028. For the Workers' Party, it has been important to strengthen the Defence's helicopter capacity in the north, whether in the case of Bardufoss and the 330 squadron there or the rescue helicopter base in Tromsø.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2851	I would like to first of all pay a little visit to the representative Henriksen and say that it is nice that the Workers' Party is ready to be co-responsible. But I never stop to be surprised by the eagerness of the Center Party after making suggestions to make their friends green in the districts, and in this case they do so in the utmost consequence at a high price. Suggesting the return of at least three Bell helicopters, including personnel, is an 'bad' proposal, as we would have said at home in Eastfold, and the proposal is only getting worse with the additional proposal that police helicopters should take over anti-terrorist preparedness for the police, which the helicopters on Rygge are doing today. A central point of the main conclusion and recommendations of the Gjørv Commission was, which is also quoted earlier today: ‘Rapid and effective helicopter support to the police in the context of counter-terrorism on Norwegian soil should become a dimensional task for the Defence.’ The rationale for bringing together the Bell helicopters on the Back was that it was necessary to bring together the helicopters and the environment of competence in order to provide the special forces with the necessary support for ‘specially demanding operations’ until new helicopters were acquired. The fact that the new police helicopters have become an invaluable resource for the fight against crime in the police should be unnecessary to add. So with my eyes, the proposal of the Center Party is actually irresponsible, and I'm recording that the party's Eastfold representative, who has signed up for me, defends the party's position in a reading in Fredriksstad Blad today. What the Center Party completely omits in its reality description is that the helicopter coverage in the north is getting significantly better than before. And I have to say that I react when Navarsete says she doesn't understand why the Bell helicopters were not moved earlier if it was so important to the government. I'm sure Navarsete knows the answer as well as others, and it's that the government was concerned that the helicopter coverage in the north would be preserved before moving the Bell helicopters south. On the military side, the government parties, in cooperation with the Progress Party and the Workers' Party, have ensured that from 2024 new helicopters will be acquired for the Army, organized at Bardufoss. It is worth recalling again – it has also been promised earlier in the debate – that the Central Party and Red voted against this billion-dollar bet. On the civil side, helicopters are also invested. The government recently announced the construction of a new rescue helicopter base in Tromsø with an inlet helicopter to complement the 330-square-square rescue helicopters. At the top of new army helicopters and the new rescue helicopter base, a new police helicopter was recently deployed in Tromsø and a new ambulance helicopter in the churches. Furthermore, during the year the 330-square base of Banak shall be set up with new SAR Queen rescue helicopters and the base of Bodø will follow. The sum of these is a significant rise for helicopter capacity in the north. Reducing the security forces and the special forces’ access to the Bell helicopters will weaken the preparedness for terrorism – not to Eastfold, not to Eastland, but to Norway. I see the proposal of the Central Party as pure symbolism by decentralizing the defence capabilities from Eastern and North-West countries without emphasising the needs of the Defence and Police.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2873	It is clear that the election campaign is going on, and that the need to sharpen the message has come to the Right. Right Eastfold representatives say in the media that the Center Party is failing Rygge. I can promise the Center Party won't fail. It may be in place to recall that several hundred lost their jobs when Rygge civil airport was closed overnight due to Ryre’s air fare in 2016. It was a failure of the Back. But now we are talking about defence and preparedness policy. The right-wing representatives are also trying on the blatant claim that the Centre Party does not listen to professional advice and the Gjørv Commission. I can promise the President that the Central Party will take the Gjørv Commission seriously, and that we will also listen to professional advice, both to the country's power, to the trust-elected and to the employees of the Defence. The messages from there are quite clear. It's pretty serious when we get a word change of this type. We can discuss policies and priorities, but accusing each other of not listening to professional advice, I think I'm going far beyond the line. As mentioned above, one of the main points of the Gjørv Commission report after 22 July is the lack of helicopter preparedness. Five months ago, the Taraldrud National Emergency Centre opened outside Oslo, with 200 employees and three new police helicopters, two of them standing by with 15 minutes response time. Minister of Justice Monica Mæland then stated that the establishment was an important point for the follow-up to the Gjørv Commission. In addition to these police helicopters, the defense, at 339 SOAS on Rygge, has continued its presence with two helicopters in support of the police – despite the fact that the Minister of Defense concluded that the defense would not do the job to the police when the police guard at Bardufoss was removed in 2020. By letting the police take over this preparedness completely, you would be able to release a lot of capacity, so that the Special Forces of Defense and the Army can get more training. In addition to this capacity, we have rescue helicopters which are also stationed on Rygge, and which are able to stand by 24/7, and which can also be used by the police. So there is no weakening of the preparedness of the East to move three helicopter hulls back to Bardufoss, as it is claimed. On the contrary, there is a strengthening of the country's total preparedness and security. The lifetime of the Bell helicopters was estimated to go out several years ago. Today's Bell helicopters work after purpose, but if the government were serious, priority would be given to acquiring new helicopters as soon as possible. It would actually ensure good preparedness, ensuring both the Special Command and the Army the capacity that is needed. In contrast to the government, the Central Party has prioritised it in our alternative state budget for about 1 billion. kr more to the Army. By doing so, a purchasing process of new helicopters could be launched in favour of national preparedness across the country, as opposed to the government's training policy now has been in place for eight years. It could strengthen both Rygge and Bardufoss in the future. When right-wing statements about safety and preparedness, we should all take it with a pinch of salt. So far in April, both cases concerning the sale of the defence-critical business Bergen Engines to Russian interests and the judgment of the Corona Commission have shown that the government has major problems in understanding how the interests and preparedness of the Norwegian people are best cared for.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2892	That's right, as the Gjørv Commission report was up for treatment in Stortinget, the Center Party of course voted for what was there – otherwise it would just be missing. But in terms of the practical political effectiveness of the decision, the Senter Party backed out. The problem here is that there is a shortage of helicopters in Norway today. Then the helicopters you have must be disposed of where the consequences of missing helicopters would be greatest if the need for helicopters were to be there. In addition, it is a vulnerable environment. These helicopters are on their way into the sunset. They're up to date, they require a lot of maintenance, they need an increasingly strong maintenance apparatus to keep the system going. Then a priority had to be given, and then the special forces of Rygge were chosen to be given priority. The Special Forces are not disengaged from a responsibility in anti-terrorism work even though the Emergency Force has been given new police helicopters. It is clear from the defence mission that this is one of the most important and top priority tasks of the defence, namely to support the police in the event of a crisis and terrorism. The representative from Østfold struck his chest and referred to the Centre Party's alternative budget. Then I can add – to the extent that it is interesting, I know that the facts are often a bit disturbing to the rhetoric of the Central Party – that in the alternative budget, the Central Party would spend 30 billion. kr more of the oil fund. But it is also short when you look at the many promises to be financed. The representative Navarsete used his "preike" to say that, to paint, with a broad diet, the government's lack of commitment to the Defense. It was simply an irreparable performance of some relationships. Let's go a little bit deeper into this. Firstly, a defence with empty promises is not being built. Through two long-term plans, fully funded long-term plans, the government has helped to strengthen defence and increase defence capabilities. If you are in doubt about that, you can go into the Chief of Defense's annual report for 2020, where it is clear that defence and defence are under construction. To the specific issue: whether or not you are willing to give priority to national anti-terrorism preparedness or not. It is honest to say that you want more helicopters to the Army in the north, but the consequence is that the preparedness for terrorism, which we unfortunately got so clearly demonstrated a few years ago was not good enough, would not be lifted at the level recommended by the Gjørv Commission. That's the consequence of the policy that the Central Party wants to pursue at this point. Say it rather than try to smoke it in other words.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2907	One of the most debated issues around the Defense has been the move of Army helicopters from Bardufoss, the move of the 339 Quadron, and what is now actually proving to be a closure of the main base for helicopters on Bardufoss. There is no doubt that this government has been involved in raging the helicopter environment at Bardufoss. With this proposal, the centre party tries to correct some of the government's errors by moving the minimum of three helicopters back to Bardufoss. It won't be a weakening of Rygge. It's about seeing the whole country, and it's about continuing a shared solution. Now, unfortunately, it doesn't look like we're getting a majority for all the proposals today. I find that regrettable, but what we're proposing is to create a new helicopter quadron for the Army located on Bardufoss, where the Army is to exercise the tactical command, that at least three of the Bell helicopters are moved back to Bardufoss, and that police helicopters take over the anti-terrorist preparedness for the police, which the Bell helicopters on the Back have today. This makes the representative Harek Riveres think that this is a weakening of Back. That's not the facts at all. It is evident that the representatives of the Right play in fear, and play with the nation’s overall operational capability, by the fact that the Army will now for a long time be completely out of capacity for medical evacuation, relocation and tactical operations. The Bell Department at Bardufoss is important to the whole country. It's also important for Rygge. Here new pilots come to take basic training at Bell 412 and they fly here for two to three years before returning to Rygge to continue training for special operations. I also notice that the Council of State is standing on the pulpit and says that there are three helicopters today that are released for the Army. They are not released to the Army, for they are used in the teaching of Bardufoss. It is essential to maintain the competence of the department of Bardufoss and not least of the Army, because the agreed long-term plan provides for the permanent establishment of a squadron with army helicopters on Bardufoss. Therefore, a squadron should now be set up as soon as possible with a clear mission to fly for the Army, where the commander of the Army will be given the tactical command. If we first lose competence at Bardufoss, it will take years to rebuild it. That's what the Center Party here is trying to prevent, and it's not a weakening of the Back. That's when I want to ask the representatives from the Right if they have spoken to their local party traps in North Norway. Do they agree with this policy? Has the representative of the Elves talked to the Vice-President of the Gåleven on this matter, who would use his entire political weight to rock the 339 squadron on Bardufoss? Have you spoken to the local representatives in Troms about this matter? Do they agree with the Right? The argument against our proposal, I believe, is sylt thin. It fully indicates that the Right has no ambition whatsoever for a future helicopter capacity for the Army and for Brigade North. I would now like to end my speech by quoting from a reading article that the rapporteur in Bardu had today in the Northern Norwegian debate, where it says that now it is necessary to calm down his rhetoric against Bardufoss and to ‘get a glass of water’.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2924	It is my intention to extend the debate. This has been a matter we have discussed in the knowledge and the broad. The reasons for doing so are clear, and the professional advice from the Defence Department is also clear. What's different about us and the Center Party is that the Center Party is listening to someone down and the Trade Union, while we're dealing with the Chief of Defense, Head of Air, Chief of Special Forces, and also the Head of Army. Helicopter capacity at Bardufoss was extremely important for the purpose of rescue preparedness. They had to be there if it went snowmobile, if anyone needed ambulance helicopters. I agree, and that is why we set up a rescue base between Banak and Bodø that covers that area. Then I register the decision in Stortinget that the defense will operate it – it will bring in the new ones. It is also a proposal that I think is quite okay, but what was important to us was to establish it as soon as possible. That's why we're putting in a civil capacity now. It'll be very good. Then I was in a debate where it was very important to support the air ambulance, so that my dear combinations in Båtsfjord would not lack helicopter capacity if they needed it. We also see a need. That's why we set up an air ambulance with a helicopter in Kirkenes. Then some of the reasons for Bell 412 at Bardufoss have been that they should support the police. Yes, that is also a good argument and well justified. That's why we set up a helicopter capacity for the Troms police. In this way, we have released the capacity for the defense. In addition, we have also gone to the acquisition of civil capacity if the defense needs it. Then I'm not so sure we from Stortinget will decide where the helicopters are going to fly. The defence's operational headquarters has the job of disposing of these capacities. It works very well, both if there are civil needs and if there are military needs. I think we should stick to that. In conclusion, I am often impressed by the Central Party in defence policy. First of all, for an enormous boost it has received — the eagerness and willingness to work to build the defence, especially after they themselves left the government. And second, I have to take off my hat when I register how much you get for a billion when you're in the Center Party. For whatever debate, if there's a new frigate, a new fighter plane, a new helicopter, a new battalion, or for that matter a new brigade, you pick it up because you have a billion more.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2943	The Council of State makes a point of trying to hustle the Centre Party not to listen to the Defence Manager. Yes, we do. We also listen to the chief army, and to what he has said. So we know that the head of defense can override the ones that are below, and that's okay. We also listen to the associations. I've heard the Minister of Defense say very strange things about it before in this Chamber, which testifies that he doesn't have much respect for the associations and the trustees. It's the Center Party. We have a good relationship with them, and that has made us raise a lot of things. I get to tell the state council here, as I said to Per Sandberg, when I was the state councillor myself, I was Minister of Transport, and he had questions every week in Question Time. He took up a lot of things, and it's affordable. Then I said that if it hadn't been for all the debates, the defense wouldn't have had the place in the public vocabulary it has. So I actually think the Central Party will take a little bit of the credit for at least raising the defence debate and getting him on the political agenda, because we've had a lot of things up. It makes it an engagement, and I think it's important. It is important for defence, and it is also important for public change of words. So the center part doesn't get any more of a billion than the rest of it gets out of a billion, so it's fine, so I can verify it right here and now. I also do not say that it is easy to prioritize in the defence. I've never said that. But after the years that have gone by, from 2014 onwards, more and more of us in the Center Party have been told that we are forced to give higher priority to what is happening in the north, and we are forced to take action to ensure that our team is also well trained. Now we're going to get in soldiers from the United States who are going to train and practice, and it's well and good that they're capable, but also our soldiers must have access to the best equipment and the best chance to be ready tonight, as the previous commander, Odin Johannessen, pla say: ready for battle tonight. I'm not quite sure if there's a situation today. It has never been the intention of the Center Party to weaken neither the Smoking nor the environment there, and I believe that by moving three helicopters to Bardufoss there would have been no weakening either. Once again, I probably have my information from sources further down the system than the state council, but there are those who say that some of these helicopters are pretty much at rest. But let's do that. This is an interesting debate. It's interesting to hear the exchanges of views. Even if one tries to chat with the Center Party, we are very much in favour of our defence policy. We have a genuine commitment to preparedness in a broad sense, and then we have to look at the whole country. The proposals we are making today would be better prepared throughout the country, and that is what we are supposed to be doing here on the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2956	The representative of Harek Riveres has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2962	I didn't really intend to take the floor, but I was asked a question from the representative Borch. She has left the hall, so she is probably not so very interested in the answer. But I'm going to answer anyway. Of course, we have talked to local representatives from our own party, both in Bardu and Målselv. But it will never be the case in the Right that it is the local representatives who should be heavy on the scale of such a serious policy as defence policy. Defence and preparedness policies are national policies. National considerations are to be optimised and not district policy markings. In this way, the contribution to the representative Borch was a very good demonstration of the reasons that weigh most heavily in the Central Party when making defence policy priorities. Finally, I would like to say that the Central Party proposed strengthenings in the context of the long-term plan, unfunded promises of the order of 30 billion. kr. Defence is built through funded policies and not empty promises.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2971	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2976	Let me take the opportunity to thank you for your commitment, including in the public conversation. I totally agree. The way we're discussing defense now is completely different than it was done before, and it's very important voices from the Center Party as well. I also want to answer that exactly with the relationship with trade unions. When we have had a dispute here, it is about sense of role and division. A trade union that manufactures a survey as a employee interview, in which a limited number of members are allowed to respond, interferes with the good conversation. It also removes the possibility for all members to respond. That's what I reacted to that time. We have a very good dialogue in Defence, including with the employee organisations. A employee survey has just been carried out that says that the defence employees are very satisfied with the job. They're clear on some of the challenges that are coming. So do we. There I think we agree quite well, but they are largely very pleased to be employed in the defense. Then we see that the recruitment of the defense and the reputation makes it record high now. So it does very well. Thank you very much for a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e2985	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e3004	Nepal has a long history of political instability and is a new democracy with a fresh constitution from 2015. Although the situation may suggest a little better in Nepal, the country is still between the poorest countries in the world and one of Norway’s partner countries in the area of assistance. Norway is doing a lot of good, but are we doing enough with the basic causes of poverty and so on? And do we enough for the poorest? The center party thinks the answer is no. We need a stronger focus on poverty reduction among the poorest and most marginalised groups in the country. These include increased food security, better nutrition and increased income, and not least enhanced climate change adaptation capacity and risk reduction. Previously, Norad had food security as part of his mandate. Norad's partner country strategy for Nepal, which I have read, and which is obviously public, is food security, food system, and the reduction of solstice not mentioned, as far as I can see. One has transferred money that used to be on a bilateral system, to the regional pot, if we can call it that, so how it turns out, maybe the Development Minister can do the right thing. That at least makes it harder for us at Stortinget to follow the funds. But is it wise that Norad has taken out food security as a betting area against Nepal? Is it wise when Nepal, due to its geographical design and location, is one of the countries most exposed to climate change? If the fielder disappears in flames and it has been sold, it is not so easy to do teaching either. I hope the Council of State can make good changes to Norad's strategy in its article. The Minister for Development visited Nepal in 2019. There he participated, among others. at the major international conference «Scaling up nutrition». In connection with this, the Minister for Development said: ‘This journey has several purposes. It will allow me to talk about our new action plan on sustainable food systems in Norwegian foreign and development policy, which was launched this summer. The journey also provides an important opportunity for dialogue with the authorities and other partners in Nepal, which is one of Norway’s partner countries in development policy.’ He also said, ‘The government is committed to reaching the most vulnerable and marginalised groups. This is a central part of Nepal’s work.’» I'm in agreement with the Council of State. It's important. But is there a central part of the work on the current mandates? I hope that the Council of State can now do more good. Equally, the increased effort for disabled people and, of course, fighting modern slavery has been seen more on the agenda in connection with the fact that many young people from Nepal have now joined in building stadiums to a World Cup that may be a bit forged by that – that so many have sacrificed their lives to build the arena of the football World Cup in Qatar. When the World Food Program was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 2020, the leader David Beasley warned against sending 270 million more people into a solstice, as he said, and that they would come to the top of the about 800 million silts that already have bad days and must go to bed. Now the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations, FAO, can report yet another bad news for the elderly. Food prices in the world have reached their highest level of seven years. At the same time, the World Food Programme’s prayer for 300 billion beavers has not been heard sufficiently. If you don't support small-scale farming and making the value chains of food that we need to produce in poor countries too, the agri-food industry is the option. There is nothing to suggest that the agro-industry is an effective method of fighting world trade, whether in Nepal or in other countries. After a slight decrease in the number of under- and misnourished inhabitants on the globe in the first half of the previous decade, the number is on the rise again. As I said, it's approaching 700 million, almost 9 pst. of the population on earth. UN RESOLUTION OBJECTIVE No. 2 to eradicate this stuff will be removed and removed. This may indicate that even though Norway's development policy raises and creates fine, shiny goals and strategies that are being launched, when a chat with organisations working with these areas, such as the Development Fund, they do not feel that Norway is a major player. Our embassy in Nepal is not a major player in food security. Why not? The Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations requests each country to produce its basic food on its own renewable resources on the basis of agroecological principles. In short, it means producing food for their own people on national resources. I believe that if several of the inhabitants of Nepal – and in the world otherwise – have access to land and produce food, more of the natural resources will be used in a resilient way, within tolerance. Norway, together with other rich countries, can help us to make more climate change adaptation, a few cereals, grasses and other plant species that tolerate both drought and flooding better. It's going to work well, but in the organizations that work on it, the financial resources that have been set up are the constraints. The fact that food and grazing soils are in operation also contributes to stabilising erosion-induced food soils and to developing the biological deficiency of the globe. Looking at Nepal, there's a lot of the population living in areas that are very exposed to climate change, with flooding, with drought and with race. The ones that become the most frameable are the ones that are the poorest. This also has an equality point in itself because women are the hardest hit, together with the disabled who actually get even harder, so I'm very much in agreement with the Council of State's pronouncing of the disabled and working for them. Women's ability to participate in an economic life, women's ability to become active in society is limited, so focusing attention on women and girls' situation is of course very important. We know that in many poor countries, women are responsible for the high labour input in small-scale farming as well. Building a market, being able to sell what a producer is, being able to create a local economy is helping to make a society work in a completely different way. One can also put people's rule, democracy, in a completely different way if one has set society in motion, and that has many good examples for us in many countries. There is also a good example in Nepal. Norway has organisations such as the Development Fund and others that make a great effort to build the resilient villages that will be able to move on. One must start at a micro level. One must build society from below, and then just food security, food production and food chains are unlikely to be important factors. I'm excited to hear what the Minister for Development will say.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e3042	The pandemic has made it harder to achieve the goal of eradicating all extreme poverty during this decade, but it has also made it even more important that we just achieve that goal. That's why we're maintaining the principle of using 1 pst. of our national income at a time of difficult budgetary priorities. That is why we maintain cooperation with our 16 partner countries in development policy, so that we contribute to the self-enhancing effects that are needed to create the best and most lasting form of development, that is, the kind of development that a country and a people create themselves. That's why I thank the representative of Navarsete for raising a debate that highlights the opportunities for development in one of our most important countries of cooperation, Nepal, and also tells us something about the most fundamental prerequisites for creating sustainable growth. The Himalayas mountains provide us with many ways of seeing and understanding both the challenges and the solutions, which are common to many. Our cooperation with Nepal goes, as the interpellant says, far back in time. There are many strong stories from the end of the 1950s, such as the one about the teacher Ingeborg and her husband, Odd Hoftun, the hydropower engineer – about their efforts that became a hospital, a vocational school, an energy program and an energy supply that we see the fruits of today. Cooperation is based on key building blocks when Norway itself took the step from poverty to prosperity and well-being, namely democracy and good governance, education, hydropower, food production, women's rights and participation in working life and an active civil society that can take its own initiatives and create development from below. It's not random that it's just the building blocks that also permeate the sustainability targets that we've all agreed to achieve by 2030. Let me also add another crucial principle – a principle that is also the very foundation of the government’s development policy, namely that no one should be left out. The most marginalised must be included in order to achieve the sustainability objectives. That's why we've stepped up our efforts to reach the most vulnerable groups. Government strategies are also based on partner countries’ own development plans. It is, of course, the countries' own efforts to promote growth and well-being. In bilateral cooperation with Nepal, there is an engagement in several areas: education, governance and renewable energy. In addition, support is provided through several channels for food security, equality, human rights, health and climate. And these aren't separate silos. No, they're related: equality, food safety, health and climate, and I'm going to refer to some of the projects that describe just that. If the well-developed civil society in Nepal is to become a real force for development from below, we will achieve most by allowing them to cooperate with our own non-governmental organisations. Otherwise, civil society is our eyes and ears out in the field and among the most effective promoters of development policy adopted in this Chamber. Nearly one third of Nepal’s support goes through civil society and is linked to vulnerable groups and projects in the fields of food security, nutrition, etc. There will be no development without what most of all enables girls and boys to take a job and perhaps also create jobs for others, namely education. In Nepal, the goal is to get all children, including children from marginalised groups, to start school and complete education. We are also involved in raising the quality of teaching and making it relevant, so that parents see the benefits of sending their children to school. After the earthquakes in 2015, we have contributed to the reconstruction of 58 schools – in close cooperation with Norwegian and Nepalese civil society. During the pandemic, significant parts of the funds allocated to education have been used to ensure good home education. Much of our support for Nepal was redispatched to such pandemic management. In addition, we made an additional 10 million. kr, with the support of a project for vulnerable children, to a mental health emergency phone for children and young people in charge of a hospital with which we are also in close cooperation. Unfortunately, there has also been a dramatic increase in demand under the pandemic, as a consequence of school closures and restrictions. Good governance is also important. Following the 2006 peace agreement and the new Constitution, a successful transition to a new distribution of power between central and local authorities has been crucial. Norway is therefore contributing to the development of competences at provincial and municipal level. Through the UN, we support the building of skills for the new politicians who have come to build the country, and this has been a crucial project to ensure the representation and effective involvement of women and marginalised groups. At a meeting in 2019, it was inspiring to hear just how important this knowledge work was for them to be able to use the basic law to develop local self-government. We know what power the Constitution has given to economic development in Norway, and we know what role the hydropower has played here. Bringing power out to the people is perhaps the single measure we have in Nepal that can give the fastest economic development. As mentioned, the water exposure of Norwegian civil society in the 1960s provided the basis for the development of hydropower plants, the transfer of competences and the development of electricity networks. During my visit to Nepal in 2019, we signed a multi-annual agreement with the Asia Bank to expand a network to bring electricity out to one of the poorest and most populous provinces. Hydropower also contributes to cleaner air and better health in a country where fires are still fired in the old fashion with fires on the floor and without flotation and pipes. Another contribution to the fight against non-infectious diseases in Nepal is that we have been involved in building the country's first paediatric psychiatric clinic. It was opened in ours. We see that even in Nepal the pandemic has led to increased domestic violence. Reports show that suicide among young girls has increased by 40 pst. during the shut-down process. Therefore, in the last year, Norway has doubled its support for the UN Population Fund’s efforts to combat gender-based violence in Nepal – from 4 million. to 8 million. kr annually. Our civil society assistance in Nepal goes for several purposes and sectors: development of local communities, human rights, environment and climate, food security, measures for people with disabilities and measures for, among others. Daliter. Nepal has a diverse civil society with a great capacity to combat poverty and promote freedom of expression and other human rights. It creates great ring effects, which I myself got to see and hear when I was on a so-called virtual visit to Nepal this March. One of the things that can create the most ring-effects, which gives the most ability to create their own growth, is increased food security. Through the Sustainable Food Systems Action Plan, which we presented in 2019, and which was referred to by the inter-pellant, we support more than 50 actions of around 1.2 billion. kr. In Nepal, as elsewhere in the world, it is important to exploit the close link between food security and climate action and between food consumption and the new climate adaptation strategy, the prevention of climate-related disasters and the response to hunger that we presented on 12 April. Norwegian support has helped to develop what has become a world-class research institution, in particular with regard to climate change in Himalayas and Hindu Kush: ICIMOD. ICIMOD research has provided an increased understanding of the impact of climate change on ecosystems and agriculture, and supports farmers with practical measures so that they can apply new technologies, share knowledge on more nature-based solutions and produce crops adapted to climate change. It provides increased and more predictable crops, increased revenues and the opportunity to reinvest in their own communities. As agriculture in Nepal is largely driven by women, it also strengthens equality, and equality strengthens as well known both well-being and prosperity. Thanks to the digitisation effort of ICIMOD, farmers have reached the markets with their products even under the pandemic. In November 2019, I visited a climate-sensitive village as part of ICIMOD's projects. Bringing out harmful chemicals with more natural solutions: collecting rainwater, solar power for water pumps, bio-fertilizers, biogas, new types of crops and digital solutions. One of the farmers told me that she had doubled her turnover thanks to an app on the phone that gave her access to both the weather and the market. As the interpellant pointed out in a committed way, agricultural and food security work is incredibly essential to eradicate poverty, to achieve sustainability and to exclude none. Now – to counter many of the reinforced challenges the pandemic has led to: 70–80 pst. of those we need now to eradicate poverty and combat hunger, live precisely on small scale agriculture. That is why I would like to thank both for the commitment and for the possibility of this important debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e3088	I thank you for your answer. It shows well, as I might have suspected, that Norway is spread across a wide range of areas of aid policy towards Nepal. One should be careful to say what is right and wrong, but what I am asking for is a more practical and visible prioritisation of what the Council of State concluded with – all those who can get a better life with quite simple means, that they can be lifted out of poverty and through some relatively simple measures. Climate Adapted Villages – Climate Adapted Villages, CAV – is one method, called another. It's going to be the same thing. It's climate-friendly communities, building productive production, and it's of course a whole range of things, which I also mention in my place. Now it's time, I see. In the autumn of 2018, the UN General Assembly adopted the Declaration on the Rights of Farmers and Other Workers in Rural Areas — a comprehensive document that gave social and economic acceptance to the world more than 1.2 billion. small farmers, fishermen, grazing farmers, agricultural workers and their families. For the world community, these major occupational groups are not on the way out, but part of the future, with the right to fight for their interests, ways of living, land ownership and operating modes. But the UN decision was not reconciled: 119 countries voted for, 7 countries voted against, and 49 countries abstained from voting. Between the countries as reddish-white, Norway was. Between those who voted against it was Sweden and the United States. I have to ask the Council of State: why should Norway give a clear voice in this matter when we know how important the role of agriculture is in achieving sustainability targets 2, in abolishing soil and poverty, and in working with climate change adaptation to make countries more resilient to future climate change impacts? Why didn't Norway speak for the United Nations deputies? And the third question is: Will the Minister for Development make sure that this matter is signed up and that Norway can join the issues as the United Nations did in 2018? One needs resources, but one also needs to be recognized - to use a bad new Norwegian word. A need to be set. And exactly that UN delineation was a piece of that image, easy to see all the ones that need to be set.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e3101	The interpellant referred to alleged lack of priorities. But in the partner country strategy we have with Nepal, it's under the chapter for priority areas very clearly as one of the bullet points where: climate adaptation, combating hunger and providing income-intensive work for women and vulnerable groups, which is exactly what's being demanded here. We cooperate with Nepalese authorities, which have an agricultural strategy that extends until 2035 and identifies a number of challenges related to, among other things. climate change, labour supply and other structural conditions. The agricultural sector in Nepal is incredibly important. It represents about one third of the Nepalese economy, two thirds of the jobs of the economically active population in agriculture, and most are women, as is said here. So it requires long-term investment and holistic approaches, which we both have from the ICIMOD and also see in other civil society organisations, such as, among other things. The Development Fund, which has had this commitment since 1982. They have worked with food security, income creation, climate adaptation and participation, as I mentioned. That's a good approximation. They know the local challenges well, and I'm glad we have such partners. That is the background for, among other things, added to the planned activity to approximately 10 million. kr for only the Development Fund. It will be an incredibly important part of the future agricultural, food security and climate investment in Nepal. Then I just have to say that it is said here that there are kind of strategies on glossy paper. That's not true. Knowledge-based projects are under way, and there is a lot of funding that has been allocated and prioritised. It's almost like looking up open door here. I really hope that the interpellant will also be happy when you hear that we have contributed, not least in the case of IFAD, as the interpellant knows is the International Agricultural Development Fund. So we've increased this by 40 pst. for the period 2022-2024, and we have just announced a contribution of 508 million. kr, which is crucial for reaching the small farmers in rural areas in developing countries. You have to do that, as I said. If we are to be able to eradicate poverty, we must engage precisely those groups as well. IFAD implements a number of programmes that provide both better income and better living conditions for poor families. So that this isn't a priority, and in terms of recognition, we're incredibly active in, among other things. as regards the work of the United Nations on climate adaptation and the link between climate adaptation and food security, where agriculture and small-scale farmers play an important role. We're going to have it high on the agenda further, and we've just launched a strategy that I hope the interpellant will read and put itself well into. Then we're going to continue the fight to eradicate poverty and hunger in Nepal as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e3118	I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to thank the Council of State for its answers and for the assurances that one is also busy with agricultural assistance. Since I didn't get to say everything I had thought in my post instead, I asked for the word again. Over the past 25 years, more than five million young people have left Nepal in search of jobs in other countries. It corresponds to almost the entire population of Norway. We've all been able to unravel the revelations about the cruel work that forward workers do when they come to a place like Qatar. Over 1,600 young Nepaleses have lost their lives during the construction of the World Cup stadium. I want to say, all credit to the football clubs that have taken it up and discuss the ethical aspect of this. We also know that the young people who travel, for example. to Qatar from Nepal, no desire to be there. They know it's life threatening, and they know that they're being treated badly, you're getting bad and must be away from the family for years. But they are forced to travel because they also have to provide for their family. There's no 15-year-old who wants to travel from all one knows. In Nepal, many young men have to leave the country to secure income. After the great earthquake in 2015, many also came back because they had to be involved in rebuilding. At the time, Norway and the Development Fund also had a commitment to increase local food production with simple, reasonable greenhouses in plastic, dripping water and manure from domestic animals. What was interesting about it was that just after a couple of seasons, these kids thought more about it than they did about the job they had, whether they were teachers in India, or they were carpenters or construction workers in another place. In addition, they could take care of the kids and the family. When we know that Nepal imports half of all food from India, it's easy to see that there's a lot of potential here. I also asked another question, and it is why Norway did not wish to vote for the declaration on rights to farmers and other workers in rural areas that the UN General Assembly adopted in the autumn of 2018. Will the Council of State do anything about it? Will he take it up again? It was in that context that I talked about that groups need to be seen. I hope the Council of State can answer that, and I would like to thank him once again for submitting and responding in full to the interview.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e3135	I would like to thank you for the debate. It is incredibly important and right that we debate how to set up assistance and how to get the most out of each krona. I also think it has been a good opportunity to make the government's efforts visible within the assistance in Nepal and how we can further develop it as well. As Minister of Development, I feel that these are many good purposes, and the government must give priority. We are working all the way to finding the balance between efforts in different sectors, between bilateral assistance and multilateral assistance and the assistance we provide through civil society. It is clear that we are now also at a stage where it becomes incredibly important how we can help to take some of the developing countries, low-income countries, out of the crisis as well. The news shows that the neighbouring country of India, which was mentioned here in connection with imports, has 300,000 new infections today. We know that Nepal has also had a dramatic increase. It will affect many of the projects and work, and it will unfortunately also lead to even more demanding work on achieving the sustainability goals. But at least we are going to continue the effort, as I have pointed out here, and can assure that civil society will be an incredibly important channel for Norwegian aid in the future as well. Then there was a question related to something that was before I got into the role I have today, so I don't know the processes around what's mentioned by the interpellant. But I can assure the interpellant that in terms of commitment, and in terms of being present and also the recognition of Norway's commitment in this field, at least we get very clear feedback on it from leading actors in UN organisations, from civil society and from other countries' authorities who are engaged in the topic of food security and not least how we can see this in the context. So again, thank you for the debate. Development cooperation figures, the ODA approved assistance for 2020, have just been published. So Norwegian aid was at a record level of 39.5 billion. kr, representing 1,11 pst. of GNI. The percentage is important to motivate other countries to do more in the field of assistance. But it's about the outcome of what we're actually able to achieve through these means, and also that we can ensure long-termity, so that we achieve the goals set in this work. Because we're in a pandemic, the Norwegian contribution is more important than ever. This also applies to cooperation with Nepal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e3150	The interpellant debate is therefore closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e3166	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e3173	The protection system shall protect vulnerable people who are unable to attend to their own interests. It shall help those who need it to obtain the help necessary to take important decisions and to be assisted in working in the same way as others. The court may include both personal and financial matters. The principal task of the Verger is to dispose of funds and to exercise the rights of the Vergerger. The contract notice shall be adapted to the needs of the depositary and assistance shall be no more extensive than the need indicated. It is important that we ensure those who need it, a good protection system, that we ensure that the system provides people with adequate support and that the burden can work in a good and effective way. The Vergemålsgesetz is relatively new, and it helps those who need it, but we see the need for changes in both legislation and practice. A lot of this work is in progress. Work is being done, among other things: with amendments to the Vergemålsgesetz and its remuneration regulations. The proposal has been being consulted, and the government is now working to strike a proper balance between different interests. A comprehensive communication on the protection of the human rights of persons with development disabilities shall also be provided. The Government implements obligations arising from the CRPD to clarify the right of self-determination and to grant a somewhat extended right of appeal to close family members. This has been at the hearing, and we are now working on a legislative proposal. It is also working to establish a proxy register to enable forgetters to access different public and digital services. This will simplify the digester's mission to a much greater extent. We also have the State's civil law administration, which is working on simplifying and developing practices. As an example, a new e-training has just been developed such as: Takes the role of forgetfulness and continues to work with guidance on the role of forgetfulness. Right-wing support for a continued review of the scheme, where necessary providing proposals for legislative changes to strengthen and improve the protection structure. Against this background, we support the proposal of the Progress Party for a comprehensive review of the protection system.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e3186	Should the representative address the proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e3191	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e3196	The representative, Ingunn Foss, then addressed the proposal of which the Right is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e3201	The so-called Tolga-saka was discovered in VG autumn 2018. The case made a strong impression on many people and led to the task of investigating 17,000 defence cases by state administrators. This resulted in the lifting or the becoming of 255 defence targets in 2020. By the end of 2019, 403 people had reported that they had a defence goal they did not want. The CRPD Convention also points to the right to self-determination in people with weak cognitive abilities. A person who is under voluntary protection takes as a starting point his own decisions and finds his own means. But the promise opens up exceptions when a person is unable to understand the contents of the disposition. In such cases, decisions may be taken on behalf of the person who is under protection. In reality, it means that the defence can take all or part of the person under voluntary protection, the legal entity, saying that the person does not understand the contents of his own dispositions. The current system of protection is based on the fact that a unit has the task of retaining the interests of the person who is under protection, even if the protection does not always know or is chosen by the person himself. A decision-making aid scheme, if any, may promote and protect the self-destination of the person. A decision support system may strengthen the person’s ability to make decisions in line with his own wishes. The CRPD Committee has given a clear signal that today's defence system is not satisfactory and the Committee has recommended that Norway move to a decision support scheme. We in the Central Party are in agreement with the Labour Party and the Socialist Left behind the Committee's recommendation that the government should take the lead. ‘a comprehensive review of the protection scheme, including considering alternatives as a decision support scheme in line with the CRPD, and proposing legislative changes that strengthen and improve the legal framework of the persons to whom the scheme is intended to apply’.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e3217	The protection system shall ensure that the interests of minors and adults who cannot act on their own are safeguarded. It is therefore the responsibility of the authorities to take on this important and often very demanding task, a great responsibility for society. The challenge of the protection system is well known and has been highlighted in the media through several cases in recent years. This applies to associations with too many clients in order to be able to live on it, to people who do not get professional associations to take their case because it is too complicated and requires too much time, and to people under the agencies who have lost money because of the bankruptcy of the forget. We also know that the need for protective measures has been increasing and is expected to rise in the years to come. The Labour Party therefore welcomes the recommendation made by the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left that: ‘The Government is asked to carry out an overall review of the protection scheme, including considering alternatives as a decision support scheme in line with the CRPD’. In such a review, like the other red-green parties, the Labour Party believes that there are several issues that should be addressed, such as: a possible requirement for liability insurance for professional indemnity, competence requirements for different groups of professional indemnities, a possible separation of employer needs at different levels, an appropriate compensation model for persons with mental illness and challenges with violent persons in need of protection. There may also be a need to look at other schemes that should work alongside the protection scheme. The government has so far not acted very quickly in this matter, and the proposal the government has sent to the hearing, has taken little account of what we think is the main challenges that have been highlighted. That's why it's good that this case comes up in Stortinget, and we want to encourage the Minister of Justice and the Government to take that review, which hopefully will be carried out, most seriously, also with the conditions that the red-green parties take up in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e3231	The Vergemålsgesetz, which entered into force in 2013, was an important reform. It contained changes that ensured the implementation of the obligations under the CRPD Convention. The Vergemålsgesetz has been of great help and benefit to many in our society. Nevertheless, there is a need for further development, which the government has prioritised. Among other things, we have made clear that the rights of the proprietors to self-determination shall govern the work and development of the Agency. Several important legislative changes have been consulted. This applies, inter alia, to: terminology for emphasising volunteering and defence. The Ministry is now working on several important changes, including: a legislative proposal to clarify the right to self-determination and enhanced implementation of the CRPD Convention. As I stated in letter of 20 January this year, further development in the field is taking place step by step and in the right direction, while we have to think completely. I believe that this has been a good procedure, but I also support the proposal by the Right and the Progressive Party for a comprehensive review of the protection system. An overall review should look at the interaction between the keeper, the breeder and the caregivers and the caregivers of the keepers. Ensuring real self-determination requires something from the whole community. The yard shall complement other public and private schemes. A comprehensive review will also contribute to the dissemination of information and the correction of errors. In public debates, it often appears that everything that has happened after the Tolga case has not been brought about, and many believe that the rights and the protection of lawyers are lower than they actually have. It is important for me to find out that the law does not allow exceptions to self-determination where the person does not have consent. The employer cannot deprive persons under voluntary protection of their ability to act by saying that the proprietor does not understand his own best. The willingness and preferences of the proprietor shall always be taken into account in the case of general courts. Vergemål works well for thousands of people throughout Norway. We must not forget all the good work that goes wrong today, and many of the guards are related who are working hard to help their neighbors. I am therefore pleased that the Justice Committee has come up with a proposal that can help promote self-determination and prevent discrimination among the most vulnerable in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e3250	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e3269	I was amazed and worried after the digital hearing on the drug reform. It was found that more police abuse their powers in drugs. It is a serious abuse of power that I now hope the Council of State will clean up. Because I expect her to agree with me that drug users will meet with the same law and dignity as I do as a staging representative. More police said at the hearing that they would lose methods if the drug reform went through the Storting and that they could not search homes and cell phones if the person only had a user can. After SV requested an interpellation on this topic, the Swedish Attorney General sent a letter to the police on matters concerning persons with only one user dose and suspicion of personal use and possession only. The lawyer has said that there should be no mobile search, house search and forced blood or urine tests in these cases. The police will not lose these tools for people with just one user can since this is already illegal. SV expects the Minister of Justice to respond clearly to what is lawful and to inform the police about it. Their aim is to stop the use of illegal intervention. It is important, right and lawful for the police to use intervention to reveal sales, smuggling, production, etc., but this interference is about user doses. I refer to the information we have received in the hearing on the drug reform, and some press issues. In the hearing on the drug reform on the use of proportionate coercive measures, the Advocate General said: The coercive measure shall be proportionate to the offence sought. Secondly, the use of coercive measures requires the pursuit of an investigation objective which is relevant from the point of view of the case. So if a person is only suspected of drug use, it would also be illegal today to review his mobile phone in order to find evidence of drug sales or possibly other possible offences. A public prosecutor said in the hearing about the search of a drug user who has only one dose: that's when it's about searching the person, pockets, and not least the phone. And so on: I think it's been researching this way in Norway every year, and I haven't been away in any time that it's not going to be allowed. It is clear that the lawyer, the chief, and this attorney general disagree on what is lawful and not lawful. Norwegian Drug Police Association, which is an organisation, not the police, clearly writes that the police will lose tools if the drug reform goes through. For example, they believe that they will lose the opportunity to search cell phones and homes even when the person has a user can. But it's illegal today. I understand that this state attorney is the Vice-Chancellor of the Norwegian Narcotics Association, but I expect this state attorney to understand the law and follow the law even if he is a member of the Norwegian Narcotics Association. On 12 April, after the letter from the Advocate General, the Advocate General of the State said to the Court of Justice24: ‘The police have continued to have full access to the investigation of a suspect and, in the event of a suspicion of use, both domestic and mobile phones will also be able to search.’;» He rejects the fact that the Riksadvokat's statement provides a significant change in price. I have some examples that clearly show that there has to be a change in course: Four police contacts in the Værnes region wrote: «A young man appears to be the drug. [[...]] This gives the police the opportunity to search the person, telephone and housing." So they claim, black and white, that suspicion of use alone, or possession of a small quantity, provides the basis for both mobile phone searches and house searches. A 21-year-old man who smoked cannabis, that is, use and possession with only one user dose, said, ‘We had to take off our pants and boxes, and then we were told to hold up their wallet, so that they could light up the lights below. They also glowed around the butt. I have no idea what they meant to be able to find there." It is serious abuse of power by the officers who had this mission. This interpellation is not a criticism of the Council of State. It was the same practice when SV was in government. The debate on the Russian reform has given a voice to the vulnerable. We have now learned what is happening behind the scenes, and what we see is that there has been systematic abuse of power against users of illicit drugs. Therefore, on behalf of SV, I apologize for not stopping it before. Regardless of drug reform or non-drug reform, the practice needs to be changed. We have a lot of other things, like the man who called 113 to save his friend's life when he took an overdose. The person was fined since he had a user can. Another example is the man who was suspected of drug use and who was forced into urine testing and blood testing. When there is systematic abuse of power, the Storing and the Government need to figure out what has happened. Therefore, the SV will propose a policy environment. All these abuses of power, with abuse by some in the police, are a political scandal. That's why it has to be an independent investigation, so it's not just that the justice sector is investigating itself. Can the Council of State clarify that the police in cases of use and possession of user doses cannot search mobile and housing or perform other interventional measures, such as forced urine or blood tests, in today's system?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e3311	The President understands that using quotes is fine for making the article live, but recalls Section 55 of the Rules of Procedure, which says that quotes should only be used to a limited extent.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e3316	The representative’s questions address the limits on the police and prosecution authority’s use of power against individuals. This is an area where there should be no room for doubt. The government’s proposed drug reform suggests that the police should continue to play a central role in detecting and preventing illicit use and possession of drugs. New rules have been proposed for police access to search for suspects of illegal possession of drugs for personal use. Under the new rules, the police will still be able to detect and seize the illegal possession of minor quantities of drugs for their own use. The police will also be able to provide instructions on attendance for drug treatment at the municipal drug counselling centre. The proposed visitation rules take into account the fact that smaller quantities of drugs for personal use should not be punishable. This gives guidance on the reasonableness of the route to detect a suspicion of use. In the bill it is pointed out that access to the visit includes an external inspection of the person's body and that there is no access to the person's clothing. In the event of a concrete suspicion of drug sales and possession exceeding the criminal thresholds for minor quantities of drugs, the police will have the same facilities as they do today to search people and review mobile phones. I believe that, following the proposed drug reform, the police will continue to have the necessary powers to detect possession of drugs, whether they are illegal for their own use or more serious criminal convictions such as sales. The representative asks me to ‘confirm that it is illegal today to search for, for example, mobile phones and homes in less serious cases’. The answer to that question depends on the fact that each case is weighed against the specified conditions of the Criminal Procedures Act. In this context, I refer you to the Riksadvokat's letter of 9 April of this year with a thorough briefing on access to investigations into cases of possible breaches of drug law. In particular, I refer to point 6.4 of the letter, on ‘Finn of small quantities of drugs’, which includes: states: ‘If, in the circumstances, there is reason to believe that the drug is for personal use, there will be no other basis for searching the home or reviewing the mobile phone of the suspect without any other information. However, if the amount of drugs, the way in which they are packaged, any drug accounts or other circumstances give cause to suspect that they are involved in sales activities, there will be a continuous basis for the search of both bopel and telephones’ on this basis. It is the Riksadvokat who has the top responsibility for the prosecution in the police, and the overall responsibility for the investigation in criminal matters — including drug cases. The Rikslawyer’s letter will provide the basis for ensuring that police and prosecution authorities have a concerted practice that is consistent with the rules of the Criminal Procedure Act. Of course, there should be no doubt about police practice in the use of coercive drugs in drug matters. I am therefore very pleased that, in a letter dated 13 April this year, the Riksadvokat instructed the state attorneys to carry out a monitoring and assessment of police and prosecution practices in this area. This is a review supported by the police director and will cooperate. Such a review will provide an overview of the practice and will also show whether it complies with the rules of the Criminal Procedures Act. Not least, such a review will demonstrate the need for further action. The Advocates-General shall report to the Court of Justice of the European Communities by 1 October of this year and we shall, of course, follow up the findings which they will present.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e3344	I am pleased that the government agrees that we should follow the Riksadvokat, but much has happened before the Riksadvokat sent letters. For example, there was a woman who demonstrated to legalise cannabis – SV is against it, but it is legitimate to demonstrate – who the police thought was a bit drunk, so they took the woman in. She had children in a babysitter, so the police took the child to babysitting one night. She had to take two rests, but she wasn't drunk. There are many things, and we haven't looked at these old things. As I said, SV is going to propose a policy environment. I know that the Council of State is not going to go into the debates in the Health and Welfare Committee, but I would like to ask: Will the government look at old drugs and see if there has been abuse of power by some in the police in the case of drugs, so that we can know what has happened, and perhaps help many of the others who have been punished, but should not have been? I say the punishment, because once you've been stripped in the street or forced to have urine or blood samples, it's almost like punishment, even when they haven't been drugged.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e3351	My and the government's clear starting point is, of course, that the police have to follow all the laws and regulations. I also want to say that, in his letter of 9 April, the Riks lawyer says that he has no reason to believe that there is some serious system failure or widespread mispractice, but there is now a debate, and there are stories that that representative repeated here. It's incredibly important that we trust the police, and we do. We have very high confidence in the police in Norway. Forced use and possession of persons is one of the most intrusive things that society does to individuals, and so it is important when this becomes a debate, that we go into it, that we look at the practices that exist, and that we actually make a point of whether or not there are things you have to deal with. I don't want to advertise a special medium, but there is a very good interview in Bergen's Official Journal today with the chief of police in the West, who says that his impression is that there is no intentional breach, but that the law may have been applied incorrectly, also because the times change, and with them the practice changes. The mobile phones were something quite different ten years ago than today. Today we have almost our whole life on the phone, ten years ago it was a phone. A lot changes, and we need a law that's up-to-date. The lawyer's circular is thorough, it's good. My clear impression is that the police take this seriously. It is also the case that the police are faced with many difficult situations and are required to make rapid decisions on the position and judgement of the evidence, and the decision must be made there and there. But we have to know that practice is in line with the rules we have, and now we get an answer to that. Only then do I think it is natural to discuss what might happen further.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e3360	We have a good police force in Norway that the Labour Party would like to see there were several, especially locally, where the implementation of the police reform – the so-called near-police reform – has not been good enough. Nevertheless: The case SV addresses today, is important, and it is absolutely necessary to get to the bottom of it. For the Labour Party, it is important for the Minister of Justice to ensure that all doubts are removed related to the police’s use of coercive measures, and we believe it is positive that the Riksadvokat has launched a broad review. It was surprising that the Advocate General and a representative of the Advocate General did not agree on current practice in the hearing of the Health Committee and the Judicial Committee on the substance of the drug reform. In his first clarification by the Advocate General, he stated that there is no ‘reason for concluding that there is a serious system failure or widespread mispractice of the rules in this field’. Nevertheless, we support a full review, as the Advocate General has indicated. In connection with the notified review, the national lawyer also states that any errors should be dealt with on a case-by-case basis – which is good, since the full review will only be completed on 1 October. We believe such a review is absolutely right and also believe it is completely independent of the debate on drug reform. Regardless of what one might think of general decriminalisation of drugs, doubts about investigation practices need to be removed. The police are required to comply with Norwegian law. If it is that different views or uncertainties about methods used by the police can be addressed, it must be addressed. If practice is not compatible with the law, it must be cleaned up. And it's wise that the Attorney General takes this seriously. I agree with the Minister of Justice that it is good that a review is under way, and note what she says about the fact that sometimes the police have to make quick decisions. It is often a demanding job for the police, which is why it is particularly important that the legislation is clear and clear, that everyone in the police is aware of the letter of the law. We expect the Minister of Justice also to follow up the letter of the National Attorney and the review to be carried out by the Attorney General, so that there can be no doubt about the police's methods in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e3377	Let me start by thanking both the inter-pellant and the Council of State for the comments on this matter – in particular the clear speech of the Council of State. The elephant in space — as it is called — in terms of police access to drug use is, of course, the ongoing treatment in the health and care committee of the government’s proposals for drug reform. But it's not just an elephant, but a whole zoo of issues relating to the relationship between police, law enforcement, local authorities on the one hand, and drug users on the other. An unculture seems to have built up over many decades in parts of the justice system. I understand the strong commitment of those addicts and their organisations to this matter. As far back as the 1960s, groups of what have to be called heavily nurturing, have been chased through the central streets of our largest cities, ransacked arbitrarily, humiliated in the open street, invaded and imprisoned, partly applauded by a prejudiced audience without realizing that it was often really about psychiatric patients with a complete register of traumas and terrible experiences in their luggage. In the debate that took place after the hearing on the drug reform — which is the background to today’s interpellation — it has become clear that at this time an impression has developed in parts of the police that each official has almost unlimited powers under investigation in case of suspicion of the use and possession of illicit drugs. This is what health professionals have also referred to as the so-called toolbox in the treatment of drug users. The Advocate General is clear that the toolbox is, in a sense, an empty box and, in its clarification of 9 April, has discussed both the suspicion requirements, proportionality and the implementation of the search practices that appear to have established themselves. Despite the plaintiff’s points, part of the police force, supported by a state attorney, has disagreed with the conclusions of the higher prosecution authority. Of course, we cannot live with such a situation, and I am therefore pleased that, on 13 April, Advocate General Maurud has gone to the step of asking the regional lawyers' offices for a comprehensive clarification of, among other things. procedures for searching ‘what concerns physical examinations in such cases, in the form of urine samples, blood tests or examination of the body’s cavity’, as can be seen. It is a comprehensive directive that comes from the Riksadvokat — obviously with the full support of the Minister of Justice — and it is difficult to interpret this as other than a clear signal that there is a need for a proper clearing of the air with regard to police methods. I also hope that the ongoing treatment of the drug reform proposal in the Health and Welfare Committee could lead to further clarification of the police’s powers. The Minister for Justice and Security has stressed the continued role of the police in any adopted drug reform. This is an important point made by the Council of State. Police will always have a significant role to play in contact with vulnerable groups. We have a clear parallel to this situation in the situation in 1970, when Section 16 of the Law on Disposal was abolished. That legal provision was a ban on manifestly intoxicated in public places — in fact, decriminalisation when it was lifted. As a result, police tasks were changed to go from punishing to helping those who were at risk to themselves and/or others, through provisions of the police law. This led to a marked clarification of the role of police action, which has helped to strengthen police confidence in society in the longer term. It is said that trust is not something that can be adopted or assigned. It has to be earned. My hope for the treatment of the drug reform is that the prosecution will take into account the signals received through the debate on the drug reform and that it can contribute to a renewed legitimacy for the police. I hope it can take place regardless of the outcome of the drug reform proposal, and I mean today's interpellation in many ways points to a crossroads for both the justice and health sectors. From this crossroads there are two ways: continued stigmatisation, degradation and misery, or freedom and opportunities for all. It should be well known which way the Left prefers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e3400	It is very good that the Workers' Party agrees with us that we need to look at these matters, and also the Left, who said that we are now at a crossroads. It has to change. We have to change the culture and the system. But it's a tape to the Minister of Justice. I believe that the Minister of Justice said that the Riksadvokat has said that it has not been a systematic failure. It's wrong -- the Riksadvokat hasn't said that. The attorney general has said that they do not have information that this has happened, but now they are collecting information. So we don't know if it's been systematic abuse of power or not. I know that someone is trying to say that they haven't said that there has been an abuse of power. But neither has the lawyer said that there has been no abuse of power. We have the special unit that works with these things. Over 80 things have been worked on, and everything has been rejected. The specialty unit has sent letters to the Ministry of Justice and the police that there may have been illegal practices for many years. No one has worked with these letters and followed up what this device has said. It is also a problem that the Ministry of Justice has not followed up what the special unit has pointed out for many years. That is why I hope that the Minister of Justice will answer that, and that the Ministry of Justice will follow up information from the special unit, which has pointed out this problem for years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e3409	Let me start by thanking the interpellant. I think it is very good to put on the agenda important things that are being discussed in society. That also gives the government a good opportunity to answer questions that are not usually in the Stortinget. I am very pleased because these are important debates. Then I think for a moment that the representative might turn around a good principle and base the reverse burden of proof. I think it's a good legal principle that you're innocent until the opposite is proven. That also applies to the police. Then they are our foremost in maintaining law and order, and they should also be our foremost in handling and following law and order. It says itself. We have a police force – it is also important for me to say – that has very high trust. 94 pst. the public has confidence in the police and the citizens of Norway have a high level of security. That's very good. But of course it applies to everyone. Now we have to go through and see that there is no basis for believing that there is any systematic failure or practice in contravention of the rules. We don't want that. What the representative corrected was what I said about the Riksadvokat's statement, and to be quite precise, he said that ‘Neither the State Attorney’s inspection reports nor any other available information provide the basis for concluding that there is a serious system failure or widespread mispractice of the rules in this field’. So it was a statement based on the knowledge you had. So now we want to know more when you go through this, and that's important to do. So it's like we've been following up and the police are following up on the issues that come from the special unit. Every year, there are about 50 issues to be followed up in the districts. So does that. Of course, I assume that both the Police Directorate and the police districts take this seriously. Then, too, in the letter of assignment to the Police Directorate, both last year and this year, we have been very clear that lessons learnt from the special unit should be given priority. This is an important work, and it's part of doing the police work. I thank you for the interpellation, and I thank you for the debate. So we're definitely going to talk again when we get the result of the review.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e3432	The debate on substance is closed. 9 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-22.ana.ud47e3447	There is no record. So today's map is ready to debate. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
