ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e47	Before the debate starts, the President will refer to the adopted debate from yesterday. The stork is continuing the debate on speeches and statements, and today's first speaker is Prime Minister Jonas Gahr Støre. After the Prime Minister's statements, a succession of lines will be opened.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e52	Today two, I would like to thank you for the debate that was held yesterday, and I would like to thank you for all the good words that were said across the dividing lines of new states councils and new representatives. I want to say, as then an old representative who is no longer stuck in this room, that I think there were very many good contributions from new votes. There are many new representatives in Stortinget, and this also marked a part of yesterday's debate. I think it was refreshing and good for the debate. The government shift took place against a backdrop of tragedy in Norway. What happened in Kongsberg Wednesday evening has really shaken the whole country. I would like to say after the visit to Kongsberg and the contacts with emergency facilities and authorities there that it was an experience that the country came together in solidarity with the Kongsberg community. It is also important in the time that comes, as regards those who have lost their closeness, but also how we address the themes that have been revealed as a result of this tragedy. It concerns the health sector, it concerns the justice sector, and it is a responsibility that we all have to take, and that the government is taking most seriously. It was a debate in which I felt that the parties were talking about their policies, the government was talking about theirs. I received many feedback from parties that are in opposition, wishing to cooperate with the government in areas where we can find cooperation. On behalf of the government, I would like to thank you for that and say that we will follow it up through a good relationship with the Stortinget. We're a minority government and we're going to seek a majority in this room. A theme that has engaged many people is the consequence of the high electricity prices for ordinary people out there, high costs at the top of a family budget that may be demanding to go up. Here I feel that the Storting can gather, that we can get an agreement on quick action that means a difference for those who are most vulnerable. We have the Hurdal platform as the starting point for government policy. We've been in the offices for six to seven days, and we're preparing an additional proposition for the budget. This is known after a government change. The platform has clear courses, clear values and addresses the major challenges facing Norway. It extends over four years, but it has a real perspective on the challenges facing Norway in the 2020s. How can we ensure small differences, the core of what gives trust and strength in Norwegian society, opportunities for everyone across the country, in the city and the countryside? How can we improve the school so that we qualify our young people to get into working life, and how do we succeed in climate change, digitisation and active foreign policy? There are many concrete actions in the platform. I hear some demand that there should be more, but this is also a platform that invites society to participate in the design of policies, that the social partners become more involved in the design of how we make the big choices. Businesses, organisations and voluntary activities shall be consulted and included. That is why this is a project on the premises of ordinary people. We will listen to them and include them. I'm recording that parts of the right side like to talk about it with ordinary people's tour, if we can't now put it behind us, that was campaign, now we're over in a new time. Parts of the media have taken the same thing. I can promise that we won't put that behind us. This is the intention of this government, that we should listen to many who have experienced for many years that they have come in second order, that those who have come in first order, have often been the best placed, and that people who live by their usual, honest work have experienced that they have come in second order, that they have been overheard, overlooked and sometimes run over. We're going to develop the whole country. We're supposed to be the common people's interest party. This isn't rhetoric. It's our project, and it's a political necessity after eight years of right-wing policy. I'm not going to bring up again one of the campaign's famous topics, but yesterday we heard from the Right again that the cut in the property tax is important to get people to work. We haven't been able to prove that in recent years. We've asked and asked. Now it is also a very important step to succeed in the climate fight. I think that is also poorly documented. What's documented is that the seven billion. kr Right wants to give in the property tax code, goes to the 1 pst. richest in the country. It's in itself an expression of why we're saying that now is the common people's turn, that there are others who are going to get first in that queue. People set up the community when the community sets up for them. It is a prerequisite for our country to succeed, and a fundamental understanding of the Workers' Party-Center Party government. Work is a topic that was left in the debate from many parties, and that's good. Now we hear that there is speed in the Norwegian economy, there are many vacancies. At the same time, many people are outside, and we want to get into work. The greatest possibility that we can get money to distribute in our society is that more jobs, that fewer are on social security, that more pay taxes and can contribute to our own economy. So it's said from the Right in particular that the most important thing for people is to have a job to go to. I agree with that in isolation, but it is not on any condition that you go to a job. When we're on our way into a boom, we have to pay particular attention to the fact that people don't have to get into a job, and then you have to thank the job and be happy just to get it. If you then feel that you are being deprived of social rights, the right to organise, etc., as we see in parts of the world of work, it's an alert sign. For this reason, it is vital for this government to call on the Norwegian model of working life, which is about getting a full, firm position, being a safe job, being a party, being able to organize, and encouraging society to organise. That's why we want to strengthen a wide range of conditions that provide people with security at work. This is the recipe that we have a adaptable working life. People in Norway change jobs easily, because it is safe to change jobs. We don't fear new technology, we fear old. People go over and use new technology because it's safe at work. Therefore, the investment in a work-life model where people at work are heard, seen and taken on board, is important for our productivity, for our investments and for the renewal of working life. Corresponding to health: Your health is your responsibility, but everyone's health is also everyone's responsibility. We have a Community responsibility to ensure a health service that sees people – in the vicinity, the permanent staff in the municipality, and all the way into the specialist health service. Therefore, we must not go downhill with privatisation and bi-dividualism. We need to have better hospitals for everyone, use technology to decentralize health services, but always think about prevention and public health, how to avoid going to hospitals. If you have to go to a hospital, you have to get the best treatment in the world, no matter where you live, who you are, and what you earn. It's not a point for the Minister of Health to stand and block people from coming to the hospital, but the Minister of Health and the Government is going to make it easier for you to have a health and a starting point in life that allows you to live life without major health problems. Therefore, physical activity in schools, school food and prevention targets are important in government policy. A third thing that characterises the debate until now is that this one in the Chamber is mostly about the opportunities and challenges in Norway. They are many, and we take them seriously. But opportunities in Norway, one of the world's most open societies, both technologically, digitally and geographically, are largely about developments outside Norway and how Norway deals with the world around us. Foreign policy has a direct impact on the lives of ordinary people in Norway. In my years as Minister for Foreign Affairs, I said that the objectives of foreign policy should be to make domestic policy possible, that is, to ensure the security of Norway so that we can set our goals for a society with equal opportunities, well-being and security for all. That's a good inspiration for this government's policy today. In our foreign policy commitment, the government will take care of and promote Norway's political and economic interests, contribute to peace and low tension in our neighbourhoods, ensure that Norway, with our open economy, can trade and exchange with countries and people both close and distant from Norway, so that people can go to work in Mo in Rana, Odda and Kongsberg and secure income for the country and its family. We're an export nation. We're going to increase exports. We have to increase exports. The government starts its work at a time of increasing rivalries and tensions between the major powers. It's the environment. We are accustomed to saying that the major political conflicts rarely occur at the borders of Norway. That's the way it is today. But they can be experienced and felt here. If it blows cold in the north, they haven't arisen in the north. They may have arisen in Ukraine, the South China Sea or some scandal and tragedy in the Middle East. In the north, major powers report, emerge and challenge established standards of sovereignty and international law. We face challenges from countries that are approaching us through new forms of influence, cyberactivity and targeted intelligence. The activities focus not only on our military capabilities but also directly on Norwegian technology and skills in industry and against Norwegian authorities at central and local level. I'm saying this because it's challenges we have to take seriously and meet together. We're going to set up a total defence commission and update the picture of what the Norwegian defence in broad terms, that is. The defense itself, but also all other parts of society, must be able and capable. Norway shall be a safe and reliable partner and NATO ally. We will develop and deepen our cooperation in the Nordic region, and we will base the EEA Agreement on our broad contact with Europe. Norway is an economic and political surplus nation in a world with too much deficit. That is why we must take our responsibilities. It depends on Norwegian traditions and values, but it is also an informed self-interest. We are an active member of the UN Security Council, where Norway wants the Presidency in January. We must pursue a renewed development policy in which we invest in the achievement of the UN's sustainability objectives. We're going to take our leadership responsibility as a port and lead the work to protect the sea, the life of the sea and all the opportunities of sustainable marine governance. That is why this government has its own maritime minister. Then, in line with a long Norwegian tradition, we're going to think that many of Norway's great opportunities here at home are in what we get in other countries. We are going to cut our greenhouse gas emissions in Norway. It is important, but really important for the fight against climate change, whether our technological solutions contribute to cutting the largest emissions in countries, whether it is the development of renewable energy resources in developing countries, so that we can skip the fossil stage, or technological breakthroughs in hydrogen, sea winds, and CO 2 capture and storage. That we achieve our goals is our commitment. Overall, it's not going to change the world itself, but we're sitting on technologies and competences that can change the world, and it has to motivate us. Here, otherwise, Europe is our most important opportunity. We will achieve our climate objectives in committed cooperation with the EU. The government will initiate discussions and cooperation with the EU on how to develop and strengthen this cooperation. It is about the fact that many of Europe's now choices will depend, among other things, on: of technology and competence we have. It's said that we have an advance on sea wind, we have an opportunity on hydrogen, but they're not date stamped. It's a leap you can lose. The government has high ambitions. We have set out a new and more fair course for the country and will follow up with concrete policies that are marked in the lives of ordinary people along the whole of Norway's coast and inland, and that equip us as a country and community to meet the major challenges of the 2020s. For my own part, it's about being able to see children and grandchildren in the eyes with certainty that we can do what we can to make them grow up and eventually grow up in a Norway with little differences between people, living communities throughout the country, a Norway that creates values in a safe working life, and a Norway that does its own thing in a troubled world where climate change threatens.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e101	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e106	Once again, I would like to congratulate Jonas Gahr Støre on both the Prime Minister's job and the new position during the change of line in the debate on the throne. We've probably heard the debate a little different, Jonas Gahr Støre and I, about what has been the issues so far in this debate. I feel that a main theme has been that we really don't know so much about the course of the new government. We know little about the concrete proposals, because we rarely have a more woolly and less concrete presentation. So far, VG's commentator wrote that it was remarkable how many slogans and clichés they had managed to push into what was going to set the direction for the government's work. I wonder: is it because the Workers' Party and the Senter Party failed to agree on a concrete policy in Hurdal, or is it because the Workers' Party has begun to doubt its own solutions that it is so woolly?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e115	I do not know if I should congratulate the representative on the place on that side of the hall, but I look forward to having good debates here in the time to come. It is not a cliché to clean up in a working life where people do not have whole, permanent jobs and experience insecurity. It is not a cliché to say that we are going to have an active industrial policy in which the state goes into private business and says that we have some goal to achieve – how are we going to achieve them together, how are the tools going to work better? It's not a cliché to say that when we have a doubling of the number of young people on Erna Solberg's watch, we're going to tackle it with new tools – not cut in Nav, but strengthen all the services we have to get people to work. It's not a cliché when we strengthen the climate targets to 55 pst. and increases the CO2 tax to NOK 2000. The list is long, but I understand that the VG's commentator and the former Prime Minister can view it as clichés and unsavory language, but it is concrete objectives and obligations. As I said in my post, we will fill it in when we present our budgets, our plans and our policies in the coming time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e124	A government statement is often a way of showing direction, yes, but it is also showing concrete things to do. This declaration of government is very little concrete. Let me start with one of the areas that I really think need concrete, short-term and good solutions, namely the climate area. In the climate field, we know that it's urgent, and we know that every tonne we save early in this decade is going to mean much more than every tonne you save at the end. However, all the concrete measures taken in the climate field by this government are so far to weaken the measures to be taken. They do not want to introduce CO2 tax in this way – at least it is unclear – the previous government has added to its government budget. You increase the VAT on electric cars, which means that the incentives for buying an electric car are getting smaller. The account is quite long. Then I wonder if Jonas Gahr Støre can give concrete answers to what in this government statement that will cut emissions in the short term.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e131	In the short term, Erna Solberg presented a government statement in 2013 where she did not have a climate. She forgot the climate. Now she wants a climate plan from the government by February. It took seven and a half years for the previous government to deliver a climate plan. But thanks for the plan coming, there were many good things there. When we do the grip with an electric car, to take it very concretely, it's to say that you buy an electric car up to 600,000 kroner, you can drive far with your family. You buy an electric Jaguar for 1.2 million. kr, you get to pay the top yourself. We can use that money to build charging stations throughout the country. People can drive cars and more electric cars in the districts. Then petrol and diesel become less important in isolation. The budget proposed by the representative, with an increase in the CO2 tax – well, it never met the reality of the Storting. The representative of Solberg was then to meet Sylvi Listhaug as Prime Minister and agree on this increase. We'll never see that in the face of it. We're going to present our budget changes in a few days, and then we'll see. This platform is full of ambitions and goals of climate, and we're going to deliver on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e140	I note that it was not a single proposal that leads one to cut more. On the contrary, then, proposals have to weaken it. I stress again: we have a budget in which we have agreed with the European Union on how much cuts we should have. Every tonne we cut early, counts forward every year. That's why it has much greater value, and that's why it's so important that we do the things that the government put up to. We added up to a climate plan because we have an agreement, because we have increased ambitions, and because we're going to deliver better on climate in the future. But the new government has no new measures, and I have to say that is a little strange, because in the election campaign Jonas Gahr gave the big impression that he had a climate plan, that he was more concrete than the then government for what to do – without him saying anything about the content at the time. But one thing he said was that the Prime Minister's office should have a more central role in climate policy than today. Then I wonder, how does the Prime Minister intend to do it – a more central role?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e145	The central role is here. The Prime Minister is going to get involved in that work too fully. So I think the discussions about the instruments the representative mentions are important, but we have much greater ambitions than that. We're going to cut greenhouse gas emissions, contribute to the world, as I say, and then we're going to succeed in developing the hydrogen value chains. I think we need stronger instruments than the representative has proposed. We have to succeed in an industrial policy that is lifting up and cutting down the road for us to really exploit the potential of sea winds. And we're going to make sure that this happens in the whole economy, in households, in waste, in agriculture, in construction. We do not present detailed recipes on it in a Hurdal platform. So let's set our goal. Then we're going to sit down with the parties involved, they're going to get ownership and support. The State must make requirements and the one it must set up. We're going to see that in the time that's coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e150	So it is only to note that the Workers' Party does not have that climate plan – but they had a climate seminar to invite the parties to – that it was the climate plan of the Workers' Party, that what they said in the election campaign was that the concrete plan did not exist, because we cannot see it again in what is actually in the declaration. That is worrying, because if we do not have more measures now, but will weaken the measures taken by the government at that time, when we do not have our targets early enough. That doesn't mean we're able to cut the climate emissions at an early stage. I would also like to ask about some other measures that were interesting. This is because in the right-hand side we have worked hard for many years in order for Norwegian school to meet each student, helping each student to use his or her potential and talent. We have made rules for this, including: intensive school training for those who are following. Then we will always be met with a reading, writing and calculation statement from the Workers' Party – the most important campaign case in 2017, 2019 and also in 2021 from the Workers' Party. It is not included in the declaration either. Was it too difficult to give a guarantee that you would read and write, or was Right Policy better?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e158	It's clear that we're going to make sure our children learn to read, write and calculate. The best way to do that is to get more qualified teachers into school, where the government that's left off has failed. This is why we need to improve the recruitment of teachers for teacher training. We're going to make sure not to pull out of the school's teachers' professions 20,000 experienced teachers who are ready to take this teaching. We need to strengthen early efforts, so that we are sure that our kids can read, write and count early, don't have to deal with it when they get to high school. This secondary school reform, which has suddenly been on the right after eight years in government, is on the Hurdal platform, and we are going to start it – the Minister of Knowledge spoke about it yesterday. So there's a commitment to early efforts that will come through primary school and into high school, and with other instruments than the government that's left off, have chosen.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e163	I am pleased that the government has chosen to take the Right election case. None of the parties in the government talked about a high school reform, but has now put it into their platform. I am pleased that the Right can influence the Workers' Party and the government's policy when we have good ideas, and we come back with many others. In 2017, the Labour Party’s main school vow to parents was a reading, writing and calculating guarantee for the children. That was also the case in 2019. We have seen in the municipalities that the municipal politicians of the Workers' Party are unable to deliver on this. The Workers' Party has now been given government power, and this is still in their programme; it is the main answer the Workers' Party has had. Will Prime Minister Jonas Gahr Støre issue a guarantee during this four-year period that all children will learn to read and write and calculate well enough, or will he go away from the election promise that has been the most important school-political election promise for young children and their parents during the last three election campaigns?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e172	Now I'm almost touched. I'm glad that Solberg's representative has let himself be inspired by this several times, and that she is now making it hers and hope we will follow up on what we stand for. The answer is yes. The goal is to be able to discover in the 2nd and 3rd grade whether our kids can read, write and calculate. If they can't, they should be followed up. But those who are undergoing follow-up and special education today experience half of that teaching being done by people who are not trained teachers. It is a poor investment to follow up, no matter what guarantee you might have. Then one of the tools to do something about it is that there are several qualified teachers coming into school to be able to deal with it early. It's the school's job to make sure our kids can read, write and calculate. We want to make sure that this happens, but then we also have to have the skills that are needed. Then we'll have to bet wide. It's also important that our kids have health, that it's a school health, that they have physical activity, and that they get a more practical school, so they can succeed in school. Yes, that is the aim of the Workers' Party – that is the goal of the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e181	Let me start by congratulating Prime Minister Jonas Gahr Støre on his new job. I hope there will be a good climate in Stortinget for the next four years. I want to raise an important issue. After all, we felt that the previous government, with the Right in the head, chose to pick up an IS terrorist from Norway – a person who voluntarily left Norway, who supported the neck-breaking, rape, mutilation and killing of innocent children, women and men. The debate is on again. The progress party is clear that we can pick up the children, but we don't want to be in a position to pick up the mothers. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has previously said that our general position is that we do not want to bring these women home, but that each case needs to be assessed individually. My question is: Does the EEAS work to help the IS women back to Norway now?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e192	Let me thank you for your congratulations and wish you back to the representative Listhaug that she also contributes to a good climate, both in the hall and outside the hall. To the question, I just want to join what the Minister for Foreign Affairs has said. It is not Norway's policy to bring home people who have voluntarily left and joined IS or other terrorist movements. So it's that we've had the attitude that we should aim to be able to help children. Children are innocent, and we have supported the measures taken by the previous government to help children home. In addition to that, I would like to say that matters that come before the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Norwegian authorities must be dealt with individually. They need to be reviewed to see their relationship. It applies in general and in these cases. But I would like to stress that Norway will work to find international solutions to the problem that applies to all of us, that there are a large number of potentially dangerous people in camps in Northern Iraq and Syria, for which we need to be able to find solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e203	I hope that means that you work for an international criminal court that makes them convicted and must zone in the areas where the crimes have been committed. What's the problem here is that we see these IS women pushing their children in front of them to try to get Norwegian authorities to pick them up in Norway. I did not get an answer to the foreign service question now working on this, so I would like to try another question: Can Prime Minister Gahr Støre guarantee that the government will not pick up IS women to Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e208	I repeat what I said instead, that there is nothing Norway is obliged to do, there is nothing Norway has to do as a policy. If the foreign service is addressed from the Nordic countries in different situations, they are treated individually according to the situation in which they are and then assessed on that basis. In addition to that, I have no comment on this particular matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e213	That means that we don't get any guarantee, and then I guess that speaks for itself. There has also been considerable confusion regarding the taxation policy of diesel and petrol from the new government. The Prime Minister said in the past that prices are quite good up to 20 kroner per litre. I think that many families with ordinary incomes and single residents who now experience increased interest rates, high food prices and sky-high electricity prices do not agree with that. The Minister for Climate Change and the Environment has said that there will be higher charges, and I have to say that yesterday was not particularly elucidating on this point either. Neither the Labour Party nor the Centre Party will guarantee that the fees will not increase, and the representative Aasrud said, ‘but we need to find good solutions to ensure that those who rely on the use of a car will release a large increase’. I think that's a poor consolation for many who are now struggling to pay the bills. Can the Prime Minister guarantee that the charges do not go up on diesel and petrol?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e222	As usual, the representative of Aasrud is a wise representative. Let me just make it clear that I didn't say it was okay with high gas prices, but I was asked what if the price was 20 kroner – up in the Gudbrand valley when I was there and met a journalist. Then I said it was okay, then I got to pay for it. That's what I said that time. However, I would like to quote what we say on the Hurdal platform, that the government will ‘reduce taxes that affect people most, such as electricity taxes and fuel taxes, including differentiated user charges’. Now we're going to present our additional proposition to the state budget. That's where we'll get back to it. But we're concerned that those who don't have alternatives to driving a zero-emission vehicle should be spared, in the sense that when we increase taxes on fuel, social justice and geographical justice must be the basis for determining the level of charges. That's what we want to bring in. At the same time, the pump price consists of several elements. So here's a couple of things to look at in context, and that's what the representative gets when we get into November.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e229	Let me first take this opportunity to congratulate the Prime Minister. Then I may not get back any congratulations for standing here, but as long as the political distance in some important areas for us is too great, that's the way it is. But both of our parties are part of a very large majority against the government that has now gone off, and an important reason for the great majority is the increasing inequality in power and wealth – Difference Norway. It is and must be a central goal for this period that the development towards increasing differences in our country is being broken, that we get the turning point that very many people have voted for. Then we have to change working life, we have to invest in welfare, but it's not going to get past that the most important reason why inequalities are increasing in Norway is that the richest go away. Then we have to do something about a tax system rigged for the rich. Does the Prime Minister agree that greatly increased taxes on the economic elite are necessary to bring the differences down?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e234	In the series of congratulations, I have to be allowed to say that I am sorry that the representative Lightbakken is standing there, and that he is not otherwise located in the hall, but we have to figure it out, and we have a lot in common to build on. I agree that we need a fairer tax system that distributes the burdens more fairly. That is why the Workers' Party's entry into this election campaign – and it has also been reflected in the Hurdal platform – has been to say that those who make NOK 750,000 and less will be cut in taxes. We who serve above have to pay more taxes. We who have assets have to pay more in taxes on wealth. That's fair. At the same time, we're going to be aware that we're going out of a pandemic. We're going to have predictability for business, so we've put the corporate tax flat on 22 p.m. On the fee side we say that a fee will go up, another tax or tax will go down. Overall, it could help us get activity in the economy, more at work, bake the cake bigger, more to distribute. It's a policy based on fairer distribution, and I agree that those with stronger shoulders can carry a heavier one.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e242	The previous government failed in climate policy, and there is therefore none of us should pay too much attention to the Right's attempts to clean themselves up this day. That government bombed on the 2020 targets, and it had no plan to achieve the 2030 targets. On the other hand, the new government should focus more on the response of the environmental movement to the Hurdal platform. There has been a sharp criticism, and I think that is understandable, because the government platform does not bring about any change in oil policy or any new measures of importance for rapid emission cuts. So that's the way the Prime Minister is very aware, that now counts every year if we're going to achieve the 2030 targets, and that means that 2022 also has to be a year when we're taking new steps for fast emission cuts. I notice that there are many questions now related to whether the government in the supplementary proposition will weaken some climate action. I expect it to be irrelevant for the Prime Minister, and that he would rather make an additional proposition where we will get new measures for rapid emission cuts. Is that what he wants?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e249	Yes, we have confirmed our objectives. We are going to reach them with the European Union, we are going to reach them through measures throughout the economy, and of course it must be reflected in the additional proposition, too, even if it is short. Then we will introduce the work – which I believe the representative agrees with – with climate budgeting, so that we also budget climate cuts. But it is true that here enough SV and the Workers' Party are separating layers in the view of the role of industry. The Labour Party believes that industry has competence, technological understanding and understanding of what is needed to get new zero-emission industries, new jobs, new industries to stand up. Therefore, we will develop, not liquidate, but we also say in the Hurdal platform that we should have a stable level of activity with increased elements of the new renewable industries. We believe that a sharp decline in oil and gas business is making Europe poor, markets poor, the world bad, and that it also weakens the efforts we need to cut greenhouse gas emissions. Industry must be a very important player in the 2020s to achieve the goals we are going to achieve in 2030.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e256	In 2017, an important summary from the Workers' Party was that after many conciliations on the right, they were more clearly to belong to the left side. It starts very well on the platform of the government, namely that there is a historically strong majority for a new and fairer course for the country. But then it is also a little disappointing that the platform is ringing around what is a bad deal with the citizens in environmental policy and also in tax policy. We see that the cuts in corporate taxes are being saved. This is a profit tax when you have deducted the costs, money that is not invested in jobs. When the Right cut more than the tax settlement, down to 22 p.m., the Workers' Party went against, but now the Workers' Party will also peace the last cut from the Right. After the crisis, the bill has to be shared fairly. The profits of billionaires cannot be saved. Are Støre participating in a new course with a tax policy that can finance e.g. free dental health for everyone?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e263	I guess I said some of that in the answer to the Lighthouse about our view of taxes. A reduction in corporate tax began at the brink of our previous government, in the light of the fact that the countries around us had put that tax down. I'm really worried that we're getting a race to the bottom. I'm warning you against that. It looks like it's also stopped. It is true that we were critical of the decline to 22 pst, but we believe it is right for the stability of Norwegian business and employment that we are holding it when we are now on our way out of a pandemic. It's wrong to say that 22 pst. corporate tax should be increased in order to take the billionaires, as the representative of Moxnes says. There are quite a number of enterprises and enterprises in Norway, small and medium-sized enterprises, which are not billionaires, and which are to have predictability, and which are to employ more. What is really the job creation machine in the Norwegian economy are the small and medium-sized enterprises, and they set this government up, and then they need stability and predictability. But at the same time, those of us with the most income and wealth have to pay more taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e270	I also want to put myself in the line of congratulations. The stability and predictability of business were an important keyword. Something like Jonas Gahr Støre was very clear in the election campaign was that it was not relevant for the Workers' Party to explore alternatives to the EEA Agreement. He has even stated that it would be something like telling the woman over 30 years that you wanted to figure out alternatives to marriage. Understood: It might not be a good idea to explore alternatives if you're going to be, and it might not have been received so well. While the Hurdal platform correctly states that the EEA Agreement is established, experience gained by neighbouring countries with alternative agreements with the EU must be explored. I can't read this in any other way than to explore alternatives to the EEA Agreement. My question to the Prime Minister is, why should you do that if you intend to be, and how does the Prime Minister think this will be received?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e277	I think it is interesting that we are now being taught the Left to be stable in European policy, in terms of relations with Europe and its links. However, I share the view of the representative that the EEA Agreement is important; it forms the basis for Norway's relationship with Europe, and it forms the basis of the Hurdal platform. Europe knows that, our EEA partners know that, and there is no doubt about it. So I think it's useful – as we write on the platform – that we get a summary of the experience from the last ten years of the EEA Agreement. We had the 2012 European Investigation. It gave us a lot of important knowledge about how that cooperation worked. Now we have ten new years, with some peculiarities that we need more knowledge about. Several have been concerned about the experience with other options. The Labour Party has said that we do not need to explore alternatives to the EEA Agreement; we are in favour of it. But we have no objection to sum up the experience of related countries with their relationship with Europe. That, I think, is something I can inform the debate. Some of our neighbouring countries have EU membership, others have agreements with the EU other than those of Norway. I don't think that's going to be seen as a challenge in democratic Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e286	I would like to congratulate the Prime Minister on his new government and wish him much happiness. It's good to hear that the government wants to take care of ordinary people. A human life has the same value whether you have billions on book, or you're a regular worker with only a few thousand copies on book. But the same thing also applies if you don't own a red ear, you're homeless, you're paperless, or maybe you're on the run. I get worried when the red and blue fights about which groups in today's society are going to run away with most of the resources. I am reassured by the fact that the government has a commitment to the climate, but very concerned about adding up to a solid consumption growth – especially a growth in the consumption of nature. We risk not leaving anything left to the generations that come after us, to the nature and the other animals and to those that have the least. Will this government be able to exercise enough moderation to leave some of the basis of life to those who come after us?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e293	The answer to that question is yes. This is a government based on batches to take care of and develop Norway, i.e. the competence of the Nordics, but also the natural basis on which Norway is based. The Minister for Climate and Environment made good comments yesterday on the fact that the best protection of nature is not necessarily that it is not in use, that it is not managed, that it does not benefit from what nature offers, but of course it should be within the framework of taking on administrative responsibility. We have on this platform, for example. be clear on the importance of protecting food soils. Many people in Norway think that we have a lot of geography where people don't live, but we have little food soil, and that requires that we have attention to it and measures for it. We define the natural challenge as central to the climate challenge. We have a climate cure, but we also need to look at a natural cure – how we take care of nature – as part of overall management responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e300	I too would like to take this opportunity to congratulate Prime Minister Støre. During the opening speech on the government statement, we were many who listened well. I want to start by saying that the conclusion was both strong and important, when the Prime Minister spoke about involvement, about the breadth of perspectives from this room about how we build trust. But at first the Prime Minister spoke with words that are in stark contrast to it. At that time, the Prime Minister put pressure on an increase in power in Norway, which is a source of confidence, security and cohesion. This is not how we know the Norwegian people – on the contrary: we have just been together through the worst crisis since World War II, and hardly any country has managed better through the pandemic. Large parts of the world haven't seen the worst yet. From historically high unemployment in the spring of 2020, unemployment is now well below the average for the last 20 years – it is less completely unemployed now than it was before the crisis broke out. It is not despotism that characterises Norway; it is cohesion, trust and solidarity. It was also common people who voted for a non-socialist majority in previous elections, and it is common people who have given a different majority this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e309	The Health Minister spoke yesterday very carefully about the importance of our common health system in the meeting with the pandemic. She and I have talked about trust. The finance minister and I have talked about the importance of small differences and trust in Norway, and that we must build on that. But if you travel around the country, you also meet people, both in the middle of a city and far outside a city, who experience renunciation – renunciation of decisions. Where are the decisions taken? Am I involved? Am I being heard? The power investigation in the 1970s had that as its major theme: power and renunciation. I believe that in a democracy like ours, which is based on popular rule and closeness to people, the attention to the abduction is something we should follow – and if it is a bit of it, it is serious. The punishment you feel if you don't get a full-time job, don't have the right to work, don't dare say so, loses their benefits in a job if you organize yourself: if the representative thinks it's talking Norway down to be concerned about this, we're simply disagreeing. I think we should be concerned with limiting the demise where it exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e316	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e322	One of the most important things we do to balance social differences is to get people into work. Being useful, filling time with something meaningful and having greater economic freedom makes us happier. This is why one of the Right's most important projects in the government has been to create more jobs and include more into the labour market. In addition to creating the jobs, we have also released the screws in the Working Environment Act. Access to temporary employment is good help both for business and for those who want to get into the labour market. Probably a lot of companies would have dropped out of taking in new employees if we hadn't had the flexibility that the previous government introduced. Let it be clear: of course, the right is dependent on fixed and whole positions being the general rule, but we also recognise that a temporary position can be a decisive springboard into the fixed full-time position. I am concerned that the government is now building up the threshold to get more people to work. When the Hurdal platform says to remove the general access to temporary employment, that means that those who struggle to get into the workplace will continue to struggle with it. The right will continue to pursue a policy to ensure that it will always pay off to work. Access to temporary employment is one of many ways of increasing employment. It is, after all, better to enter into work temporarily than passively to receive social security benefits while waiting for the entire fixed position. Half of those who get a temporary job are also in the job a year later. Free time isn't good. It's not good for society, and at least it's good for it. Now the new government is tightening up the screw, and the flexibility of the work environment law is soon history. This may mean that one of the positions of one of the companies never comes into existence, and this may mean that the one person who could have occupied it will continue to be free. The changes that are now announced are pure ideology. But does the government understand the consequences? Has the government talked to shipyards along the coast about their needs for labour? Has the government spoken to the staffing agencies, which daily helps people into work? Has the government spoken to those who have helped in the workplace? There's nothing to suggest it. It is ideology that trumps the needs of the real world.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e339	A good school with competent teachers is the best social policy tool we have. In the last eight years, knowledge has won the battle for resources in school. There are record numbers of qualified teachers, and three times as many receive further training each year as under the red-green government. Several students are present in education, and record numbers complete secondary school. The major government prioritizes putting the knowledge school in reverse. The first measures they presented to Norwegian schools — lowering teachers’ demands and expectations — were precisely referred to as ‘low ambitions on behalf of students’ in the evening post. In the Hurdal platform, the resources and focus in the school are shifted from knowledge and competence to food, play and structure. Closeness to school is not the same as quality. When the government will now introduce a new criterion into the municipal income system – a basic grant of 500 000 kroner per primary school – yes, then the municipalities that do not plan for the future will be premiered. In very many municipalities, the school structure is adapted to the children’s coal of the 1950s and 1960s. Fighting for school structure rather than fighting for quality and content in school, and for the supply of students, is a misunderstanding of school policy. When school policy becomes district policy, we not only get poorer school policies, it also becomes poor district policy. That's the knowledge we're going to live on from in the future. This is why it is important to ensure that all children and young people in school are of good quality. It is our safest and most important investment in the future. And more important than anything else is that children and young people can read, write and really calculate when they leave high school. Then they are shot to complete a course in high school, which in turn leads to studies or work – and an active and good life. It is important for individuals, and it is important for society. That is why yesterday, in this Chamber, we promoted a proposal for a comprehensive reform of secondary education. If we are to have knowledge in school, we need knowledge of the school, and we need knowledge of the individual student's skills, mastering levels and progress. For the Right, it is important to ensure the individual’s right to education at their level. When the government's goal is a common school where all students master, learn and thrive well, I hope they remember that all students are unique individuals. The average school life does not exist, and the Joint School of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party must assume that quality in school is achieved only when each student fully meets his or her potential. Karen Blixen said, "School isn't life, and life isn't after school; it's the school that's supposed to be after life." I hope the government remembers it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e358	The day after the election, one of the kids noticed before he ran out the doors on his way to school, "Now the usual people's turn." The day before, we had run past a poster by Jonas Gahr Støre where we could read the slogan of the Workers' Party. 'Do they really say that?' one of the kids asked. Another wondered who were the unusual ones. I reassured them that this was probably just a slogan that would disappear after the election campaign. However, in the debate, and also today, we have unfortunately heard that the time for populism is not over, and in the Hurdal platform it is soon found that we have received a government for ordinary people. I wonder what this platform will do for my boy who ran out the doors that day, and for all the other students in Norwegian school. There's no doubt that the teacher is the single factor that matters most in school. A professionally strong teacher who sees and understands the students can make the difference whether or not students master school everyday life. Then it worries me that the first school effort known was to eliminate the requirements for grades for teacher students and to eliminate the qualification requirement for teachers. The government of Solberg has, for eight years, prioritised knowledge in school and invested in teachers. We've turned primary school teacher education into a five-year master's degree, with greater room for immersion and practice. We introduced skills requirements in Norwegian, mathematics and English, and there are now 12,000 more teachers in school who meet the requirements of professional competence in these subjects. Several students are now conducting the teacher’s studies, and in a shorter time. Since the right came into government, we've got 4,500 more qualified teachers in classrooms. Historically, many students complete higher education, the 4th and 5th grades read better, and the characteristics and implementation increase most among the pupils with the lowest-educated parents. But it's still too many students who leave school without being able to read, write and calculate properly, and it's still sad for many who don't complete high school. Therefore, it is a cross of thought that the Workers' Party and the Centre are now giving priority to knowledge and competence. The school can go from being a place to learning to be a place to be when the requirements are lowered. That's bad news for our students. Research underlines the importance of the teacher in teaching, mastering and motivating students in school. Teachers work every day to see, understand and adapt teaching to more than 800,000 different students, and they are crucial in school. The right will continue to invest in school knowledge and invest in teachers, because there is only a clear school policy, with a clear direction, that balances social differences.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e373	If it's populist to work for ordinary people, then the Workers' Party is a populist party. Many common people work in maritime nutrition, one of the foremost value creators in Norway. The sector creates values for about 90 billion. DKr per year and provides work for about 84 000 women and men throughout Norway. In addition, there are about 20,000 Norwegian seafarers. Norway has been a leading maritime nation for over 150 years and parts of the industry are still doing well. But not everything is going well in the maritime sector. Last year, the Maritimt Forum received a report warning that 30 000 jobs could be lost in maritime areas and asked for strong measures. They did not come into the state budget for 2021, nor did they come into the government’s proposal for the state budget for 2022. Or, as the Maritim Forum itself said in its comment: «The rushing destinies of the Solberg government». I can tell that people on the yard floors in Ulsteinvik were not very impressed either. So I find it special that former Prime Minister Erna Solberg in the Chamber here criticizes the Workers' Party for too little concrete industrial policy. The Workers' Party and the Centre Party shall now govern Norway on the basis of the Hurdal Platform. It states that the net pay system should be strengthened, not weakened, as the Right and Advance Party would like, that Norwegian wage and working conditions should apply on a Norwegian base, and that we should have strong activity-creating measures for the maritime industry and a green migration package for climate-friendly ship conversion. This is what Norway needs: a new course for the maritime industry and for the whole of Coast Norway. It is a much more concrete and active enterprise policy than the former right-wing government did. Or as the Maritime Forum itself says, ‘New government shows great maritime ambitions’. We in the Workers' Party agree with the industry, because now is the turn of ordinary people. If anyone is in doubt about how important maritime policy is to Coast Norway, then both the President and all of you, yes, even former Prime Minister Solberg, are cordially welcome to the boat and booknaziild at Sunnmøre, anytime.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e384	I thought I would take the Stortinge with a little bit back in time, until the 1900s, to Sam Eyde and Kristian Birkeland's time, where innovation, world-leading competence and industriousness combined with good exploitation of our competitive advantage, stable and reasonable renewable energy, laid the foundation for the establishment of many industrial ventures, among others. Norsk Hydro-Electric Nitrogen Aktiegesellschaft, Norsk Hydro, which exists today. Back in 2021, however, our competitive advantage is pushed away with reasonable, clean, renewable energy. Instead of using the power of a new green power-consuming industry, such as Morrow battery plant in Arendal, for a green hydrogen and ammonia plant in Hereya, as well as a total of ten planned installations in the billions class in the West, which are now at risk of being exposed or cancelled due to power shortages, the other parties want to send our competitive advantage offshore, to electrify Norwegian base. So the other batches want to send 1.5 times more electricity than what all 58 wind farms in Norway were producing throughout 2020, to the socket. Your power to move emissions from Norway to Europe shall not eliminate them. Instead of using the power to facilitate new industrial ventures, this is a priority. Electrification of the socket will have almost no effect on the reduction of global climate emissions, but it will, on the other hand, have a huge impact on electricity billing, which is already more than high enough today, as well as on the tax bill of most people. In addition, the wheels for new industrial bets and for new jobs will be directly pinned. Norway is already one of the world’s best in climate and environment. We already have 98 pst. renewable power generation. Our total energy mix with transport and everything is among the best, with at the base of 70 pst. renewable energy, although our long-term, beautiful country is an energy intensive country to populate, while EU leader Germany has an energy mix of less than 70 pst. fossil energy. To put it slightly at the top: Norway can be compared to a well-trained and active person of 70 kg, while Germany and parts of the EU correspond to an inactive and low mobile person of 225 kg. Norway shall cut 55 pst. By 2030, i.e. at a lower edge of 40 kg, while Germany has to cut the same percentage, but from a much higher level. Germany will not even be at our level today, even if they reach their goal by 2030. Norway, on the other hand, will be a 30 kg debilitated and ill person, where the population and industry are struggling. It's time to clarify what's most important, especially for these parties that exclaim climate crisis as often as they can. Is there climate action that maximises the impact per krona and that can counteract the crisis, which is most important? Or it is most important to impose maximum taxes and taxes on the population, while at the same time providing as much money as possible for expensive symbol policies with little or no effect in Norway, in order to appear to be capable of action.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e397	The government statement shows a new direction for Norway, a direction in which we will listen to people and communities, bring down the differences between people and make use of the whole country. This applies throughout the line, also in the field of education. This is in stark contrast to the policy pursued in the last eight years. Last spring, the then Guri Melby knowledge minister launched that they wanted to force all the county municipalities to introduce a purely character-based admission as the input model for our secondary schools. For us in the Central Party, on the other hand, the policy is that decisions are to be taken close to people, because we have to recognise that there are different challenges in Agder, in Troms, in Oslo and in Sogn and Fjordane. That is exactly why I am so happy that the platform is very clear that the states will still have to decide for themselves. In my home country, Trøndelag, we have chosen the primary school principle. For a region with a strong city and strong districts, this has been very central because we have been able to offer good schooling to our students. The primary principle ensures that all students have the right to a school place near where they live, regardless of their grades from high school. With a purely character-based recording, as the government of Solberg wanted, it would only have been the characters that decided which school to enter – where they with good grades could have been chosen first, and those with slightly worse grades would have to have taken the places that were left, regardless of whether that place was in the school nearby or two hours away. In other words, if a youth had worn a little bit in high school, we're going to answer that because they have to leave to complete their education. This does not support the goal of getting more through the education cycle. At the same time, we are afraid that this could have led to A- and B-schools, especially in the cities, and weakened – and at worst would have led us to lay down – schools in the districts. As a youth, as a centre party and now as a towering representative from Trøndelag, I am incredibly proud that the Hurdal platform thrusts out a clear direction. With this decision, we ensure that young people can be at school, not on the school bus – that they will not be allowed to leave their community to complete their education. And not least we ensure that we will have good urban schools and strong district schools in the years to come. This is an important signal and a clear example of the policy to be followed by the Central Party and the Labour Party in the years to come, so we have a lot to enjoy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e414	Child protection shall be a universal good which ensures a minimum level of well-being for all children. Child protection is universal and is given to all children precisely because it is an important safety net for all. Nevertheless, not all children in Norwegian municipalities receive this benefit. There are currently 65,000 children living in families in social assistance, and more than 34 000 of these live in municipalities that choose to deduct child benefit when calculating the payment of social assistance. This means that the very poorest families of children are, in effect, losing the value of child welfare. 34 000 children are deprived of child welfare. It's over half of the kids who might need it most. It is a fundamental injustice in a system that affects the weakest in a society. It is sad that so many municipalities choose to continue this practice despite the fact that the challenge is pointed out by many. In the government platform, the word child-rescue is not mentioned once. There is something about strengthening universal benefits for children and young people, but nothing about child welfare. SV has high expectations for the new government to ensure real balancing of the differences between the few at the top and those at least. We expect that the additional proposition will include a bet on the children of the low-income families, a commitment for all children to live a good life, regardless of their parents’ wallet, for all children to be able to participate in activities in the circle of friends, to go on birthdays with press, to participate in sports or cultural activities and to have a summer holiday with experiences that create good memories. In my home municipality, Lier, the practice of curtailment has been terminated following a proposal from SV that had a majority. I'm glad, but it's too random that those who have it the most difficult from before should be dependent on local initiatives. Children's families living on each side of a municipal border may now be at risk of having different opportunities for a good life. Many municipalities report poor finances as a reason for this practice. They do not find it possible to give priority to this in tight budgets. SV would like to see the possibility for municipalities to cut down on family allowances in the calculation of social assistance and to improve the financial framework for municipalities, so that they can do so. SV has agreed with the government parties in all debates in the election campaign that municipalities need to be strengthened and that the economic social differences in society need to be reduced. Ending the practice of municipalities of shortening child welfare for those receiving social assistance is an important first step towards a more equal society. SV wants all children to receive child welfare, without exception. We're going to seal the holes in the safety net, so that children can live a good life. For a good childhood, life lasts, and it deserves all children.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e427	After eight years of civil government, the Norwegian Court of Justice has been strongly strengthened. Substantial funds have been allocated for digitisation, audio and video recording, increased staffing and technical equipment, and in particular a structural reform has been carried out which will deliver good results in a short time. The background to the reform was inter alia: The National Audit Office’s report in autumn 2019, which criticised the courts for not complying with procedural deadlines. The big courts had too many cases, while many of the little ones had too few cases. Reform was absolutely necessary. It is therefore with concern that I read the point of the Hurdal platform that the new government will ‘reintroduce the structure of the courts before the court reform of 2021 in order to safeguard the legal security of citizens and to ensure the independence of the courts with city-led rental’. It's probably due to an exception to local unity, but it's very difficult to understand what this can mean. Signals of reversal in the election campaign led to unrest and frustration among employees in the Agder District Court. They are pleased with the reform and have encouraged all politicians on the Agderbenken to work to ensure that the reform is not reversed. They state in the invitation that the reform has led to less management, more judges and good representation in all courts. Nor has the reform led to the centralisation of jobs. No employee has switched places of work, and users have the same offer as before. The only difference is that the quality has improved, they have become less vulnerable, and the winding-up of the cases is faster. The objective of the reform has been achieved. To quote the leader of Lister24 on 25 September this year, it will be: «a great shame of being sacrificed on the Central Party's territorial political altar. In this case, the symbolism policy must be dropped. Both in the interests of the employees who are now concerned. But first of all, because the conversion will provide citizens with legal certainty and better services.’ If the new government is concerned with the legal security of its citizens, this is a reform that should not be reversed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e448	If we cut off our finger by accident, we get help with it. If we cut ourselves on the arm, we also get help with the same thing: we get help to stop the bleeding and sew the cut. But what about the reason for a cut first? In a heart attack, the solution is not a free treatment option. The solution is help close to where we are, and the same mechanisms apply in the event of a mental crisis. When we're in a mental crisis, it's alpha and omega with early help and support. It is about availability, and it is about a support device by a competent person who can accept it. There is an open need for a strong escalation of mental health. For various reasons, many referrals are rejected. That means one isn't getting help. That is why I very much welcome the declaration of government, which we have a clear direction. The government statement says that there should be a low threshold available in municipalities where no reference is required. We shall have a mental health escalation plan; we shall increase the capacity of hospitals and stop building beds. We need better organisation of services, and we need to invest in child and youth psychiatry and in district psychiatric centres. We have competent people in the whole country who are ready, in all parts of the health system, to give people good tools to deal with everyday life. The centre party shall work every day for good frameworks for those competent to be added, so that when one is in a mental crisis, one shall be able to feel safe at all stages. Help is where we are. Therefore, the Labour Party-Center Party-Registration shall invest in safe and accessible help where we are, in our municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e463	In the Hurdal platform, government parties state that Norwegian patients should have a world-class public health offer, regardless of the address and size of the wallet. After eight years of budget cuts and shortages, it is obvious that the municipal and hospital economy will then need to be strengthened in order to provide sufficient money to increase basic manning and better supply for the elderly and sick. But money alone is not enough. Today we have a major shortage of health professionals, and estimates show that the shortage will increase dramatically in the years to come. It is estimated that today we lack nearly 7 000 nurses, midwives and specialist nurses, and by 2035 we may lack 28 000. At the Kalnes Hospital in my district, the trust-elects report a critical manning situation. By 5 October, midwives at the women's clinic had worked 27,000 hours overtime this year. It's equal to 15 years. In the intensive care unit, there was 22 500 hours of overtime, 12 years of work, and in the emergency ward 21 500 hours, or 11.6 years of work. During the same period, thousands of breaches of the Working Environment Act have been reported. Unfortunately, this is not unique to Kalnes. I hear similar stories from other parts of the country. It goes without saying that such a high work pressure, with double shifts and a lot of overtime, is not good for the health of employees or for the patients they are to care for. We cannot provide our citizens with high-quality health and care services without adequate staffing and proper competence in the right place. In order to ensure a world-class public health service, as we have set ourselves as a goal, we need to train, recruit and maintain more nurses, midwives and other types of health professionals. The serious manning situation cannot be left to the individual hospital or local authority to resolve. There has to be strong political action, and we have to do more things at the same time. Trustees point to pay terms, entire, permanent jobs and increased basic staffing as important measures for nurses and midwives to carry out full-time work in their profession over time. In addition, of course, more nurses and midwives need to be trained and measures taken to strengthen recruitment both in hospitals and in municipalities. I am confident that the Health Personnel Commission that the government is going to put down can be a good venue where the parties, health services and educational institutions can together find out the most effective measures to train, recruit and maintain qualified health professionals across the country. Together with the full-time promise outlined in the government platform, I hope and believe that in the years to come we will have sufficient competent and experienced health professionals who are happy and proud of the important profession they have chosen, and that with their warm hands and wise heads they will help us achieve the government's goal of a world-class public health offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e474	First, I want to correct proposal No. 6, from Audun Lighthouse on behalf of SV. The new text shall be: ‘The government is immediately asked by the government, by the end of October, to submit proposals for the temporary strengthening of housing and social assistance to ensure that people with poor advice have the money to pay the high electricity bills on the way.’ Then it was done. Then to today's debate: It's very superior, there's a lot of good things in the government platform of the new government. We have also discussed this earlier in the debate. It's exciting single bets. But superior, when it comes to the two greatest challenges of our time, which are about the environment and distribution, this is too bad. It also has consequences for the work on the green shift, which we don't think is particularly promising. There's a lot to do here. Even when it comes to individual bets in my area, fishing, I thought that the government party did not meet what they were part of in the election campaign. Before agriculture, there is also a lot to be done. The new direction does not appear to come there. I am also surprised how little concrete one is in district policy – I must honestly admit that. So here we have a lot to deal with in time. Especially when it starts to get concrete, this will be exciting to grab hold of. SV is an opposition party. We are looking for results for our policies; that is what we are responsible for. And we'll be constructive with everyone we find common interests with. In time, we will see some welcome decisions. Over the past eight years and the last eight years, it has been a democratic problem on the Grand Duchy that appeal decisions have not been followed up by the government. It is a deep democratic problem. That means that what our National Assembly, the Grand Council, decides and decides, is not being implemented. So I want to notify, on behalf of SV, that we are going to have a very low threshold to make sure that it will have consequences not to follow up the call decisions. It is in Stortinget's interest that decisions taken here have a direct impact on the authorities' exercise and implementation of policies. I'm going to think that it's in every party's interest that it happens. So we're going to follow closely the implementation of government policy and will have a low government threshold when it comes to consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e497	Thank you, President, and congratulations on your position as President-in-Office of the Council. In a little over a week, the world’s leaders will gather for the decisive climate summit in Glasgow. The central question is whether we can keep the global temperature increase below 1.5 degrees. Yesterday, the UN presented a report that shows that the world's country is planning to produce more than twice as much fossil energy as we can, if we're going to manage to limit the global temperature increase to a maximum of 1.5 degrees. There is a large difference of 1.5 degree heating and 2 degree heating. With 1.5 degree heating, the Arctic will be ice-free only once every 100 years. With 2 degree heating, it's going to happen every decade. With 1.5 degrees of heating, we can limit the extreme heat, while such cases will occur twice as often if the global temperature increases to 2 degrees. Norway is one of the countries highlighted in the UN report. We are one of the countries that is planning for an oil production that is in conflict with the 1.5-degree target. This was one of the reasons why SV withdrew from the probes in Hurdal. We couldn't be involved in defending an oil policy that collides with one of the most remote objectives and one of the most important tasks of our time. There is no difference between the irresponsible climate and oil policy that the Right, Left and Christian People's Party stood for, and the one that the Workers' Party and the Centre will run. The difference is that the Labour Party and the Center Party do not have a majority in the Stortinget. They must relate to a strong red-green block with SV in the tip. It is not just a problem for the climate and the enormous natural values of the sea that a high level of oil and gas production is planned in the years to come. It is also a challenge for employment and well-being in the years to come. We, as countries, cannot have as a strategy to produce more of what the world wants less of. No, we have to cut emissions, create new jobs and ensure a fair distribution. Then we cannot link our skills and labour to producing more fossil energy. We need to make a transition using the enormous expertise we've gained from the investment in oil to expand the new industries for the future. Norway has a unique opportunity to bet on sea winds, not least floating sea winds. Here we can become world leaders, create jobs and future revenues, but then it must be invested now, not tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e512	Never before has the use of oil been higher than below: the previous government. The non-oil and gas trade balance has deteriorated sharply since 2013, and the Norwegian economy, without oil revenues, is mildly on a volatile basis. The centre party believes that we are overtime for a necessary investment in the Norwegian mainland industry. When the revenue from the oil and gas industries is reduced, a strong reverse operation is absolutely necessary. This will also be a significant contribution if we are to achieve the objectives we have committed ourselves to through the Paris Agreement. We need the income from the mainland industry. We need new jobs, and we need more climate friendly production of goods and services to replace uncritical imports. Norway is used to investing in new forward-looking industries. The oil and gas industry is the result of such a commitment. Now we have both the money and the skills to bet again. This was not the case when the oil and gas industry was established in the early 1970s. We need to use our oil wealth in combination with the expertise given by the oil and gas industry to reinvest in the mainland industry. It's a significant problem to solve. The first thing we have to deal with is the shift in power that has been taking place for a long time in the relationship between state authorities and multinational companies, international capital and democracy. Many multinational companies are reliant on their business between different countries in order to pay the minimum tax. Such developments involve less money to finance well-being and weaken the competitiveness of Norwegian enterprises as taxes to Norway. This government will pursue a predictable and responsible tax policy towards business and keep company tax at 22 p.m. throughout the landfilling period. Norway is facing major challenges this decade. We're going to get more jobs, create activity across the country, increase exports and cut greenhouse gas emissions by 55 pst. These four objectives are to be achieved jointly through an active and forward-looking industrial policy. We must ensure that the charging system contributes to a climate change that is effective and socially and geographically fair. The partnership with business is very central. Compensation schemes or tax reductions for specifically concerned groups and industries shall be taken into account and shall be carried out through the partnership in order to improve the competitiveness of industries. It's time to do a job, and we're ready to take that job.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e531	Right now, we are facing an alert manning crisis in a large and important sector of work, namely health care and the lack of nurses. We have to train more nurses. At the same time, we must take care of the nurses who are already at work. I'm a nurse myself, and I know too many young nurses who are already talking about finding a way out of the profession. To lift the most vulnerable in our society, we need to include and talk about those who are going to do that job – the first line. Involuntary part-time is a major challenge in Norwegian working life. That is why I am pleased that the government is going to work actively for a full-time culture, which is particularly important in the health sector. And voluntary part-time, what does that even mean? The stories I hear are about nurses who tell how tired they are, and how much responsibility they have, how little time they have, and how bad the conscience they know not to stretch to. Many therefore choose to work part-time to actually have a life outside of work. That's what I would call involuntarily voluntary. We can't feel that today's workers have to compromise with profit, time and their own conscience when they're at work, in order to work 100 pst. In such circumstances, it is not strange that one in five newly trained nurses quit the profession during the first 10 years. The government takes this seriously, and we have to raise the municipal and hospital economy, because we see that the workload that is today is too great. A strengthened local economy will provide room to increase basic manning. It goes without saying that if you have enough employees at work, more people share the burden. Then maybe the nurse on guard can take a proper lunch break, row to go to the toilet and not least have time for all of their patients. Because we must not forget who this is about. It's about the most vulnerable in our society, who'll be met with dignity. Health professionals must then have time and confidence to see the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e542	Municipal Economy: Perhaps with some honourable exceptions, as mentioned earlier, few people think it is a very exciting word. But that's something that we're all affected by. The government provides a platform where safe, good and empowered municipalities are given priority. It's a pleasure. Municipality-Norway solves vital tasks for its inhabitants every day. Patient, student, parent, builder or business manager – our municipality provides services to us throughout our lives and in most areas where we have a role. For this reason, the community economy is crucial and contains precisely what is exciting and not least important for people. The framework and the space for action have been greatly reduced in municipalities in recent years. Cuts, savings and efficiency are fixed points on the municipal management agenda. That the government wants to remove these ABE cuts, the so-called cheese relations, is very good. It is very right that we take political responsibility for the improvement of efficiency and not least the priority that should be felt to be sound. At the same time, the government wants municipalities to be as autonomous as possible and with the framework financed. If this is to be realistic, it must increase considerably in the framework. Otherwise, statutory and ongoing tasks will continue to increase, including: from the interaction reform, eat up that space of action. But increased frames aren't enough. There is a need to look at how we operate the municipalities. Are they rigged to meet today's and tomorrow's challenges? Trust reform is one of the governments that put forward as an important project, and as the Prime Minister says it will give employees increased time and trust. This reform must address both systems, professionals, trustees and not least the recipient himself. The meeting between the service provider and the recipient must be given renewed power. A development in which decisions and decisions are taken as far as possible away from the recipient must be reversed. A lowthreshold provision for mental health is an important initiative in the platform. This must mean the beginning of a time when the user is in the centre, and where the question ‘What is important to you?’ actually gets a meaning, both in the content and in the scope of the service provided. It will require professionals, and it will also require cooperation with the voluntary sector. It's the only way to design good, differentiated offers. An expansion of the Husbank's social mission is prolonged and a very good start. It must mean that the government is actually adding up to a housing policy with real opportunities for people to enter a home market. Too many people pay an excessive rent today, and the dream of a home remains just that – a dream. An extension of the start-up loan scheme – such that even those with a ability to pay but without equity are given the opportunity to enter the equity market – is lacking in the platform, but it hopes that there is a political will to move forward. The map must be drawn on the terrain – not vice versa, because it does not provide trust.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e567	The Hurdal Platform – and the Government Declaration – is good. It is not exhaustive, but it points out a clear course. Security, trust and proximity are a good Norwegian value base for policy development — for Norway. The opposition is asking for more concrete grips. Someone thinks the state's grip is more obvious. I would encourage the opposition to read about our grips when it comes to trust reform. It involves involvement, it involves listening and people having to influence both their services, their everyday lives and the policies they pursue. Having confidence in people is not about telling them how everything is going to happen. No, it's about the government taking responsibility for facilitating, with the state instruments, the frameworks and the measures that will do people good in the next row and give people opportunities throughout the country. Now, when we are going to increase exports other than oil and gas by 50 pst., the mainland industry, Norwegian value creation and Norwegian resources are crucial. And to those who demand concrete climate action: using forests and other renewable energy sources, creating new and longer value chains, as well as more jobs and environments related to them — it will take Norway into the future. We know that short ways to influence gives increased confidence. We know that trust is a good thing that also makes Norway go well. We also know that access to knowledge, education and competence strengthens the individual, it strengthens society by both public and private, and it strengthens the confidence of all of us. Then we have every reason to pay tribute to the new government, which will now give priority to decentralisation rather than centralisation – and which will give priority to trust rather than over-management. Norway is getting a new course. It gets better for Norway, it gets better for the future, and it gets better for us.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e580	It is gratifying to hear that during the ongoing debate many have been occupied by ordinary people throughout Norway. Most of us in this room are concerned that the inhabitants of Norway will have a good life. Most of us in this room are very common people, with very common friends and very common family. Having said that, I think it's important to also talk about the unusual people who live in our long-range country. Last night on my way home, I met at Øystein, another telemarking and porcelain. The fact that we meet at random in the big city is not so interesting, but Øystein's story is of interest. For some years back, Øystein started a business. This company now employs more than 130 people in large parts of the East, and the company is growing. Øystein's unusual choice to leave his safe job in the Post Office and start Citypost is what has become the job for 130 women and men today. This is not an outstanding example. It is also in Telemark, in particular Rjukan, the basis of today's world-leading process industry, in Telemark, was laid. Here, too, there was an unusual and risky individual who started. It is this process industry that is today one of the engines of the future green industry. The industry itself says that it depends on a number of suppliers from the districts, small and medium-sized enterprises, which contribute to the global leadership of the Here Island industry in Grenland. They employ thousands of people, people from all walks of life and with varying levels of competence – ordinary people. For the right it has been and will still be important to include more in the working life. In order to do this, we are totally dependent on a living business. Most people get their first meeting with the workplace in private business. It is not to be overlooked that it is just the business community that is willing to take the risk by employing people who have holes in the CV, including them in the labour market and providing these people with the necessary skills. My mother, a single mother from Iran, got her first meeting with the Norwegian working life at the Hareid Hotel. She was given the opportunity to work in the kitchen, learn Norwegian, as she still talks to a snout of local marshmallows. It's uncertain what our lives would have looked like today if she hadn't got this opportunity. Unfortunately, it appears that the Hurdals platform is setting up a tax policy that will hardly help to improve the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises. This will hardly contribute to the creation of more jobs in business. Such a policy will not make life better for ordinary people in Norway, in whom we are so happy. It would rather create the inclusion we so badly need for our future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e593	I want to start by congratulating the new government that has joined, and look forward to cooperation. I would also like to thank all those who have voted for us in the UK in Oslo. We had a progress of 13.3 p.m., all of which we are very proud of, but which I think is also due to the fact that many of us, as a party, have experienced the seriousness of the lives of people in this city, the desires they have for the future, and the opportunities and challenges they face. Many of us who move to cities do so because there are often more opportunities in cities. But to say that also often makes us blind to all those who are cut off from the opportunities – those who want to work, but who don't get jobs, those who want to live safely, but who don't get into an increasingly unfair housing market, who have to move around, who don't get to rot, those who don't have the opportunity to buy a new refrigerator when the old smokes, and even less to take part in everything the cities offer of culture, food experiences, activities, because they've got less and less to walk every year, and those who don't have the opportunity because they're not safe in their community, not as safe as they should be there. Whether this applies to the youth at Stovner, the minimum pensioner at Tøen or the child family at Mortensrud, it has to be taken seriously. I believe that the right-wing government has not done so, because for eight years it has now been a policy that has increased the differences between people every year. It must be an objective that everyone should live in good communities and have good living conditions and freedom to shape their own lives, throughout the country. Then we need a policy that re-distributes, reduces differences, and builds up our common well-being. However, we also need targeted instruments and policies for cities and the areas of living conditions challenges. We cannot leave all that responsibility to the local politicians of the city, because they alone do not have the big solutions or the money. The Jensen Committee, which presented its investigation last year, describes the situation well and recommends a wide range of good actions. These recommendations should be followed up and the Stortinget should be involved in that work. There are probably also several good suggestions here. I therefore hope that the government parties will vote in favour of our proposal for a big message on the living conditions of cities, because it is important to raise reality there also in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e604	I stand here today because people in Northern Ireland want a change and a new course. During the election campaign, I met several of them. Daniel, who is trusted by Blackland Entrepreneur, is concerned that the newly educated young people are being swept out of work at the expense of unprofessional actors and social dumping. That concern is shared more. Then it's good to be safe on a government platform where we're going to develop a Norway model with national seriousness requirements. Grete, who is a home care nurse in Øksnes, and Hanne Næss, who is the main trustee in the trade union Blackland, are concerned about the recruitment of the health and care sector. There's a lot of pressure, and it's hard to get hold of people. Then the answer is to bet on whole, fixed positions and increased resources for municipalities, so that they can increase basic manning. The rapporteur in Lødingen, Hugo, is concerned that we should not now be able to take part in climate and environmental responsibility, perhaps especially when it comes to switching to an electric car. The solution to this is set out in the platform: we need to ensure that charging stations are set up in all municipalities. Transport in Øksnes, which transports the precious shrieks and salmon from Lofoten and Vesterålen, is concerned about road safety along our roads. We're going to solve this through an increased bet on the follow-up on the county roads. Remi and Lena, rapporteur and vice-president of the Lofoten Group, are concerned about how to organise and contribute to sustainable travel development. Then we have to be on and give starter cushions to run a pilot on the introduction of visitation contributions. Then we have Ida, the rapporteur in Bodø, who has become European Capital of Culture 2024. She depends on cultural life and volunteering. We need to gradually increase culture's share of the state budget to 1 p.m., and not least we need to ensure full VAT compensation. In Nordic countries, we have everything from large businesses and groups to small businesses. We need an industrial policy that targets both the small, the medium and the large, and that targets diversity. I also believe that gender equality policies are active, for women are the most often established in the small. Nordland is a Norway in miniature. It's long-term, and it's rich in important natural resources. We're often drawn out in party speeches. Now it's time to lift Nordland away from the showroom list and onto the priority list. We must have an active policy of using the whole country, a policy of urban and rural, inland and coastal, north and south, reducing disparities and contributing to the benefits of the valuable value creation that takes place in the municipalities. It's going to be good to live, live, work and do business throughout the country, and then I'm glad that the Hurdal platform responds to all of that, and much, much more, and I'm looking forward to the work of the nutrition committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e627	It's been a difficult year and a half, and we've also experienced the rapid economic downturn since World War II. Now, large parts of the Norwegian economy are out of crisis, unemployment has fallen sharply, and we're pretty much back to the level we were at before the pandemic. In fact, the problem for many industries now is that they lack people, even though we have many available hands. The problem is that the free hands often do not have the skills that businesses demand. The most important thing we can do to solve this problem is to ensure that more people complete higher education, that more people choose a profession, and that more people get the opportunity to continue their education. Qualifying more for work is one of the greatest challenges we have in the years to come, because the main difference in Norway is between those who have a job and those who do not have a job. The fact that a parent or both are not at work also increases the likelihood of children growing up in poverty. Unfortunately, we see that immigrants are overrepresented. If we look at children with immigrant backgrounds, they're going to be 18 pst. of all children, but those children represent more than half of all children living in sustainable low incomes. The right has implemented a number of measures to help families with short-term poor advice: free core time in kindergarten and SFO, increased child welfare, targeted housing support schemes and the start-up loan scheme, to mention something. But we have to address the causes that lie behind, and then we also have to make sure that integration gets better. One of the last things that was implemented was a major integration promise, with the aim of achieving formal competence for participants. We have set targets on requirements for acquired Norwegian knowledge and introduced requirements that all those taking the introduction programme should receive an assessment and participate in work practices to learn about Norwegian working life, to mention something. Until the new law on integration came into force, there were not enough demands for results under the introduction programme, and this was primarily a requirement for implementation, not a requirement for formal competence. It wasn't good enough, but with the improvements that have been made, you've also come a long way to make demands, because making demands is caring about people's future and giving them the opportunity to succeed. That's also going to make sure that we follow up on the time that's coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e640	The country has a new government, and the Hurdal platform is the map from which we are going to set the course. The ruling parties in the election campaign and in the platform have talked a lot about ordinary people, about safe work and about freedom for individuals. However, the group of older people is not mentioned once in the platform when it comes to working for everyone. This hope is not a sign that you don't want them on the team. In 2011, the pension reform was adopted by the Stortinget. The reform assumes that future workers will have to work longer than current workers in order to receive the same old-age pension as current pensioners. If society is to be able to provide a pension for future generations equal to today's level, it is necessary for several older people to choose to go further into work. This is why they have made changes in recent years to help keep working longer. In 2015, the age limit was raised from 70 to 72 years, and later the right to earn pension funds has been raised to 75 years of age. Thus, more efforts have been made to increase the contribution of others, but nothing has been done about the right to receive benefits such as sickness benefits and daily allowances up to the new retirement age of those covered by the pension reform. If we are to expect older people to contribute more in the professional life, for the benefit of society, then we need to change the social security system so that they are entitled to ordinary health benefits and daily allowances as other workers who contribute and tax to the community. For many years, economically active people have been discriminated against by being thrown out of work. Fortunately, the obligation to end at the reached special age limit was removed earlier this year, but in the platform the government says that you want to reintroduce the obligation. The special age limit has been beneficial for many public employees — some with pensions 10–15 years before others in the public sector — but primarily in the private sector, while they continue to raise wages elsewhere at the top of the special pension. The special age limit was established in its time to provide them with particularly physically and psychologically heavy occupations by guaranteeing them a special pension and early retirement. These are important for the future as well, but the scheme has been greatly eroded over the years and therefore needs to be cleared. In order to ensure good pensions for future generations, it is necessary to take far more account of the individual’s working capacity, that there is a more equal pension system between private and public employees, and that an incentive for seniors to have greater participation in society. Ordinary people are most people. Most people have to contribute if they can, but then the government has to facilitate by including, not exclude.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e654	It's a little bit of an empty fire the new government is coming to. Today we heard Prime Minister Gahr Støre say that for eight years people have been overheard, overlooked and overrun. In the Declaration of Accession, he used words like growing renunciation, the need for major cleaning, rescue operations and the need to ensure national control — as if Norway had been completely out of control in the last eight years. But Norway has been named the world’s best country to live in throughout the time of the Solberg government and is referred to as the country that has handled the pandemic best. Of course, there are problems that can be solved better, but after eight years of right-wing government, Norway is well equipped to meet the challenges facing us collectively. Unemployment falls, employment increases, higher education is completed, more choices and careers are acquired, fewer falls are excluded. This provides a basis for sustainable, inclusive economic growth that balances social differences, if the political will and the means are there. In the Hurdal platform, the Workers' Party and the Centre admit that the differences in living conditions between poor urban areas and the rest of the country are increasing. Nevertheless, their policy is directed at ordinary people in the districts, not people who are struggling in the cities. Cities, on the other hand, are to be tapped for their own income through changes in the income system for counties and municipalities. The districts shall be provided with free ferries and cheaper diesel and petrol, workplaces shall be moved out of Oslo, and the commuter deduction shall be increased. In addition, the school income system should be modified to provide more support for small cross-border schools with few pupils, rather than giving priority to schools in areas with large social differences and those struggling. This is a policy that increases the differences between cities and countries. Grender walks in front of the Groruddalen. The electricity price situation has made it almost a status symbol to meet jobs with freshly washed hair in Oslo. If it had been the other way around, with almost free power in Oslo and sky-high prices elsewhere, it might have been wearing the hood and the guy on the torches. But with an initial price of NOK 20 000 at Husfliden, people who are struggling, can afford to bourbon, as opposed to those who are now getting a free ferry and cheaper petrol. In the Declaration of Accession, Prime Minister Gahr Støre said that the government would address the challenges of living conditions, social mobility and child poverty in cities, and I really hope that they will. However, in order to be sure, the Right will today support the proposal which requires the government to present a major communication on urban living conditions. Norway is too small a country to set up cities and countries against each other. If we are really to succeed in meeting the major challenges facing Norway, ordinary people must first of all stand together, whether they live in town or built in the country in which we are so happy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e669	Well, I'll meet you again. We've got new government and new growth, and many are probably excited about what policies will be pursued in the next few years, and not least on what policies will be pursued for ordinary people. Year after year, the country’s pensioners have gotten less and less. They are punished when they are married and cohabited. It's a system that the Progress Party has improved over the last 20 years. It was before 25 p.m., and then it's been reduced and reduced by the Advance Party, several times. In addition, pensions are subordinated. There is a consequence of the pension reform, such as: The Working Party and the Centre Party introduced. The party of progress has always said, and continues to say, that underregulation should be removed. The pensioners should not be punished just because they are retired. The party of progress is the party of the pensioners. We have shown that over and over again, both by increasing pensions in general – the minimum pensions separately – and by showing that we are willing to take the fight for the country's pensioners. Ordinary people have been talked a lot about, both in the campaign and elsewhere. For me, it's not just the slogan that's important, but that we do something for those sitting at the bottom of the table. At the NRK a few days ago we could see a case about Oddlaug and Arve, who are both lame and living in a municipality in the South, and who do not get their aid renewed – something as banal as a chair, which they have had for decades, and which gives them life and dignity. But now Nav says it's over. This is the welfare state in Norway in 2021, and if not Oddlaug and Inheritance are common people, then I don't know. I will close the article with a matter that I know lies in the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, namely the compensation scheme for damaged oil workers. The Progress Party, together with just today's government parties, the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, went to set up a commission and set up a system for the damage to pioneer oil workers from the 1970s, 1980s and 1990s. If they're not ordinary people, I don't know. So I expect that work to be followed up, and that it wasn't talking. And then I look forward to the Commission delivering its report for next year, and I'm sure it's going to be followed closely by Stortinget's side.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e686	It's a privilege to sit in this room and get to represent people from one's own state, and I hope that everyone does it perfectly over the next four years. But as Oslo's representative, I also have the hope that several big business representatives will take the trip outside the four walls of the Storting and greet people living in this city. A few quarters down the road, one finds the injection room in Oslo. There you meet addicts from all over the country who experience stigmatisation and criminalisation because they have an addiction. Some T-Bahn stop away from Stortinget you can visit schools where many students struggle with the language, where many students grow up in poor families in poor apartments and need a good school more than anyone else. And I can promise the Storting that the feeling of abstinence can be as great for someone living in Greenland as for someone living in a district municipality. Why is this important to say? Well, because I'm fundamentally concerned that these people are going to lose in budget struggles over the next few years. The Hurdal platform is tasteful of expensive solutions for districts that will bind up budgets for many, many years, while the social challenges we face in cities are mentioned to the extent. The platform even goes so far as to change the income system, so that Oslo schools and other schools in less-favoured areas have to give up money to pay for cross-border schools. The right is concerned that all people should have equal opportunities, wherever they live. In fact, municipalities with major social challenges must receive additional support through the income system. Then families with low incomes must have free core time in the SFO and kindergarten, and then we must actually focus on balancing through good professional education, through professionally up-to-date teachers, intensive reading and billing to students who are following, and transparency about school performance. It does right because it works. We now see that there are record numbers of high school graduates, and that the increase is greatest among those with low-educated parents. This platform is going in the opposite direction. The Working Party and the Centre Party shall eliminate competence requirements for teachers. National samples and the absence limit shall be amended. In terms of reading, writing and billing, the guarantee proposed by the Workers' Party is not mentioned year after year, in one word. I'm worried about this school policy because we see how it now turns out in Oslo. There we see that the differences between schools are increasing, and that much more of those with low-educated parents end up at the lowest level of national testing — and it's getting stronger, it's inherited. And we can't even out the differences if you don't bet on cohesion and good school. If we're going to prevent aliens, we're actually going to have to dry out targeting support for those who need it the most, and we're actually going to have to dry out saying that even in school policy there are some things that require the most resources; there are some things that should win the battle for the money. It's good teachers, and it's good teaching. If we're going to cancel out the differences, we're actually going to have to raise the cities as well. Ordinary people live here, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e703	Prime Minister Støre expressed concern at the increase in electricity prices in his contribution earlier today. There's a concern many of us have expressed lately. A lot of people are struggling to get the ends to meet and cannot understand how to handle large, unforeseen expenses. That is why SV has put forward proposals that I hope will be well accepted, welcomed and voted in favour of by the large majority in here, including the government parties – to show support for the impatience that lies in a broad political community, to stand up for those who need it most now. Our proposal is to turn up housing and social assistance within a very short time, the end of October, so that those who already have a clue for help can get help and know that they will get it. But this is a problem that concerns more than those who receive housing support or can apply for social assistance. That is why we also have a proposal on longer-term arrangements. There are many who have low income and high electricity costs that need their own schemes, when we see that prices gallop as they have done in the time we're in now. Then people have to know that they can pay the electricity bill in October, November, December and January, even if they have low income. In order for us to drop these rounds every year, we have to get a permanent order. This is a problem that sticks deeper and is not just about how to cope for those who cannot pay the electricity bill when prices go into the weather. It's not just about the increasing differences and that unforeseen expenses, whether for dentists or for power, can be demanding to bear, but also about what power and power is going to be in our society. Should the power be any commodity in a market, or something that we manage more jointly, which we use strategically, and which we have more political control over? SV will address the latest. We want a review of the Energy Act. We want to see how we can not just stop building new cables, but also control exports to a greater extent, and we want the power to be used for the benefit of citizens, powerful industries, businesses and communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e714	Over the last decade, our signatures have been closely involved in municipal policy through various roles as elected representatives. During these years, and especially during the last half of the period, the recruitment and staffing situation in the health and care sector has been under heavy pressure. From my experience in the municipal sector, this is largely about the lack of qualified staff and the lack of access to labour. In particular, this is due to the lack of nurses, but in all disciplines of health and care there is the same fate. New, up-to-date figures from the Nav employer survey tell us that this negative trend has only intensified. We are approaching an absolutely critical point between the current situation and the projections that relate to the need for total personnel in the health care system. In a large survey, the nurses’ association found that over 72 pst. of the members they have considered ending their work or changing their jobs. One of the requirements for closing down with a marked change in course is to facilitate training courses throughout the country. Local study centres and a decentralised high-spherical service will ensure a nationwide service. This, combined with a decentralised hospital structure, will create a good professional environment and good recruitment arenas. Former Minister of Health Bent Höie said the following, following a question from the Moxones Trustee, in 2018: ‘Averting the shortage of nurses is both about ensuring adequate access through good educational capacity and the good recruitment of new nurses, and about reducing unwanted leave by contributing, inter alia, to good professional and work environments.’ One would almost think that this equation of Höie would go up. But as you know, the political formula of the Right has not given us any satisfactory answers in any way. Through this year's elections, the people have spoken, and a marked change in course is now underway through the Hurdal platform of the new government. The platform acknowledges and sees this challenge picture, and the new Minister of Health has assured us that this is now a high priority – through a Commission to take action to develop, recruit and maintain qualified health professionals across the country. The focus of the Center Party is and will be a clear commitment to education where people live. At the same time, it is necessary to clarify economic priorities which are in fact intended to strengthen the manning situation in the first line of both the primary and the specialist services. Our new platform builds a health-promoting society in which a preventative disease and secures a decentralised healthcare service that provides good and equivalent health services throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e738	A «just immigration policy» means a migration policy that is «foreseeable and responsible» – it is a major, important and decisive word for human life. What's fair is probably very different from where you stand, and what you stand in. The world is not fair, it is said. No, but we politicians must try to make it as unfair as possible. We can't save everyone. No, that's probably also true, but as one of the world's richest countries, with resources both on book and not least geographically, we need to take our share of global responsibility. SV will always fight for a solidarity, fair and fair refugee policy, starting with listening to the UN – that we follow their interpretations and recommendations and follow up on the requests made by the UN High Commissioner for Refugees. It must also apply to quota refugees and assistance in the neighbourhoods. The UN asks Norway to take responsibility for 5,000 quota refugees. We can't find that number in the Hurdal platform. It may not be surprising, but it's a little disappointing. The UN does not ask Norway to do this if there are good and better solutions on the table. That you then propose to build a solidarity pot of at least 5 billion. kr in order to improve the conditions of people on the run and in the vicinity, is very good. That makes sense. But we must not leave this as a breeding ground for anyone else to take responsibility from us. Solidarity with people on the run and a humane policy for those suffering from war, torture and persecution must be the bottom line of our immigration policy. An increased emphasis on legal certainty for children on refugees shall be the focus. That Norway should be the driving force behind that work is good. Priority must be given to matters involving children so that children's lives are not put on hold unnecessarily. Rapid handling is important, but quality and legal certainty must not be compromised; however, we must ensure that good and proper decisions are taken. Furthermore, the government writes that all children living in Norway should have full access to the necessary health and care services. It should be a matter of course, and it is therefore also very gratifying that there is an important point in the platform. It is worrying that there is no emphasis on children when restrictions are imposed on the right to family reunification and the extension of the use of temporary authorisations. There are also children involved, children who suffer from a strict and not always equally humane policy. Norway is a good country. We have resources, and we have opportunities – we have to take responsibility. There are several points of light in the government's plans in this area, but there is also overall room for improvement for a fair, legal and, not least, solidarity in refugee policy. Now we're going to meet a cold winter. The cold levels are approaching, and the first snow has fallen in Oslo. It will soon also be in crowded refugee camps around the world. There is no justice in that children freeze.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e751	Through the election campaign, the Center Party made it one of its most important symbolic things to reverse the Viking state and restore the three old states of Buskerud, Akershus and Østfold. Therefore, I am glad that the Hurdal platform does not say that the government will close the Week immediately, but leave it up to the Week even if they want a solution or not. It's allowed to have tokens, but it was used over 300 million. kr to create the Week. Are we now going to spend hundreds of millions disbanding the state and ensuring that none of the services for the inhabitants are developed, because politicians cannot make decisions either for the old or for the new states? We believe that politicians' time and taxpayers' money must be used for better schools, better public transport and powerful climate action, not for tearing apart the new state that has so far started. We in the Right disagree with much of the policy of the Red-Green County Council in the Week, perhaps the most important in terms of the rapprochement of the well-functioning higher education admission system that we had in Akershus. But that's because of the Workers' Party and the Center's misguided policy, not because the Viking is Norway's sixth largest state. The truth is that the Labour Party's former County Council leader and now the knowledge minister, Tonje Brenna, and former Finance Council Halvard Ingebrichtsen have done a good job of designing the new county, the corona in spite of it. When the County Council in Viken presented its report on sustainability in June, they wrote: ‘2020 was the first year of the Viking Empire, and the ambition was not only to merge three former municipalities, as well as parts of the State Vegvesen. The goal was to build a new county municipality. It is a big and long-term task, and 2020 can be seen as the year when we built the ground wall." As I said, it's spent more than 300 million. kr to build the foundation wall of a new state, and as the Right sees it, there's no reason to throw hundreds of millions of taxpayers' money out of the window to tear it down again now. The right considers that taxpayers’ money needs to be spent on better services where people live, and to link it together — not on more rounds, with a new common denominator, new appointments of county directors and management, employee placement and new business maps times three, and preferably in a hurry to reach the 2023 elections. We are concerned that not a single citizen will get a better offer out of this. The right will initially lay down the county councils, but there is no majority in this room, and as the municipal map looks today, not all the municipalities in our country are rusted to take on all the new tasks they would have. Instead of spending hundreds of millions of taxpayers’ money to split up the new county, Right will allow the Viken county to speed up the important job that needs to be done in order to get a better collective offer, make important investment decisions about new school buildings, and put in place powerful measures for climate, environment and cultural life – just to offer people the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e770	To quote the conservative, Edmund Burke thinks: we have to change the way we live, to preserve it of value in our society. It's the politicians' job to make sure it's easy to choose right in the everyday life of most of us. It is an important job for this growth to make it easier and cheaper for citizens to live environmentally friendly, but unfortunately that is not the case today. For example, today trains are running slowly. The offer is poor compared to the alternatives aircraft and car. A family doesn't pay anything to take the kids in the car, but it costs a lot to take the kids on the train. It doesn't make it easy to choose correctly. A proper family discount and lower train prices should therefore be a high priority of the new government. The Storting can do something about this. In the first place, we propose to ask the government to come back with a proposal to reduce ticket prices on trains and public transport by 20 pst. It will be a powerful signal from the politicians and an invitation to people around the country to join the green shift. There is now a broad majority on the Storting to halve the ferry prices, and we support that in the Greens/Greens/European Environment Party. But we in the Green Party believe it is also time for a train rebellion, a collective uprising in the same way that we have had a ferry uprising, and we invite all parties to join in and support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e777	In the election campaign, the Workers' Party and the Centre spoke in large words that it was Nord-Norway's turn. Then it's strange to see how small words are used about North Norway in the Hurdal platform of the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The main measure for North Norway is to dissolve the municipality of Troms and Finnmark. One county municipality shall become two counties. But I really think it's just sad, because if it was North Norway's turn, the Hurdal platform would have had the answers to the challenges that North Norway is actually facing: how we're going to get stronger population development, how we're going to build a better infrastructure, how we're going to ensure business access to more competent labour. But those answers are missing from the Hurdal platform, and the Workers' Party and the Center Party are going to spend a lot of time and money reversing things, putting forward comprehensive plans and investigating big and small things. What North Norway needs are concrete measures that show a clear direction. I am proud of much of what the Right has achieved through eight years in government. There are always things that could have been better, but the big picture shows that the Right in Government has built North Norway – a part of the country that under the Right has had the lowest unemployment and growth in a number of industries. Among other things, we have doubled the transport budget so that important projects such as new E6 in tunnels through the Kvänang mountain, the Hålogaland road and new entry and airport terminal in Tromsø started. We have also established the first State grant scheme for the maintenance of county roads. This is important for example: the marine nutrition of Senja and Skjervøy. We have strengthened defence and preparedness in the north with a new rescue helicopter base, larger appropriations and more investment, so that we get a defence that can react faster, more powerful and better stamina. We have significantly increased the number of places of study in North Norway, ensuring that more students complete secondary school and invest more in decentralised education, so that more in the districts are filled with skills. The right will not spend much time and money turning one county municipality into two county municipalities. We will spend a lot of time and money to solve the real challenges facing North Norway, such as improving infrastructure, investing in skills, strengthening preparedness and defence, less waiting time in healthcare and keeping taxes and taxes down on people and businesses, because it helps create more values and more jobs. And so should the Workers' Party and the Center Party have done, if it was really North Norway's turn.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e786	The moment of truth seems to have obtained the Center Party and the Workers' Party in Hurdal. Categorical election lifts are parked – it has to be investigated, it has to be evaluated. The State Investigation Institute must also collect the loose ends and provide answers. We'll see what's coming. But it has been raised beyond any doubt that the Center Party has gone to elections with promises that they probably inside knew were impracticable. Therefore, the disappointment has also occurred in parts of the country. The horizon of the government platform related to Norway’s relationship with Europe is essentially interesting and alarming. It says, among other things: working intently to defend Norwegian interests towards the EU. But tell me, we're not under attack from the EU, are we? I think we have to remind ourselves that Europe is our continent – cultural, economic and security policy. What is good for Europe is good for Norway. One perhaps a little more serious thing is that the government has now found out that it is going to sit still with an observer in Vienna for the summer, when the countries that have signed the UN Treaty against Nuclear Weapons meet. I see in the VG today that former Prime Minister and party leader Jens Stoltenberg are out and clearly tell Prime Minister and party leader Jonas Gahr Støre that this is not the way to go. This is simply a breach of the solidarity commitments we have in NATO. Projections show that in 100 municipalities will probably 35 pst in 2030. the population is over 67 years of age. It's basically an ominous message. These municipalities may be in a situation where they will not be able to provide the welfare services that the State has decided to provide. The whole concept of the generalist municipality may come under pressure, and then the solution is not to reverse municipal mergers that have already been carried out, and much less to sement today's municipal structure. It is about addressing the challenges of the future. They can be difficult to deal with, precisely because they have to do with the future and thereby are so difficult to communicate. But if you don't address this kind of problem, it can quickly arise and come back as insurmountable challenges tomorrow. I miss an offensive attitude in the government platform right on this field. We have a challenge related to our local government sector in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e797	Feeling safe is a basic need for us people, and we're lucky in this country. Most of us know about basic security in everyday life. We move freely, the pay comes into the account, we get an hour at the doctor, and the police come when we call. But security doesn't come of itself, and it's not that we can politically decide that people should feel safe. The centre party is engaged in services close to people, of authoritative first lines, of trust in those who are the backbone of our welfare society, of culture, responsibility and leadership in public. But why are we? It is of course because all our public services, whether they are municipal or state, are for people, and people live throughout the country. The Central Party believes that a visible local and present police force is absolutely fundamental to people’s security. Fortunately, in our digital everyday life, there is much that can be solved online, but the role of the police in preventing and public authorities in our communities actually requires physical presence. Police must know the geography, the peoples and the environments if they are to be able to carry out their social mission. That is why more policemen have to be in the first line and fewer in the directorates and communications departments. It must be possible to talk properly about why the Oslo Police Directorate has grown, while we are not in the target with more patrols outside where we live. Where I come from, the Central East, Asker, people in an emergency have also experienced waiting hours for the police. The police don't always have the opportunity to move out, because in the wake of the police reform, there have been long distances here as well. People have been encouraged to fix themselves. It's rare to see the same policemen twice, and we usually meet the police in the car on our way through our neighbourhoods at random intervals. Another consequence of the police reform is that the fire department is increasingly first on the ground. They are only in situations where they are neither trained nor equipped for – first where the police should be first. Therefore, it is essential for local preparedness to raise the need for response time requirements for all emergency situations and to strengthen the presence of the police, as the Hurdal Platform now suggests. The Norwegian police and county council has 900 years of history involving proximity, local knowledge and presence. It is strange, therefore, that when the Right Party and the Advance Party have been responsible for the last eight years to judge the police for the future, they chose first and foremost to change rather than improve. It has been not a great success with respect to reporting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e813	The time has come for us to pursue an active industrial policy in Norway again. With the government platform that Støre's government is building, we're going to set up a new industry and bet on developing what we have. It's going to be important for very many communities. It's going to be important for the whole of Norway. We have to succeed in increasing exports, we have to succeed in building new industries on the shoulders of what we already have, and we have to succeed in building a green industry that takes Norway into the future. If we're going to succeed in that, we're going to have to base a much more offensive line on what the previous government did and has done in its government budget. We have to point to the industries that are taking advantage of Norway. We need to build up more power, and we need to provide an instrument for business that enables both small, medium-sized and large enterprises to move. We have to have the whole line in the picture. We will create new technologies that solve today's and tomorrow's challenges, but we also need to invest in future production methods and thus ensure that technologies developed in Norway are also produced in Norway. Then we create jobs, then we increase exports, and then we secure increased revenues for our common welfare state. Where I come from, Kongsberg, we are doing well, with Industry 4.0 and an industrial pilot where the production methods of the future are to be developed. Tripartite cooperation and a business cluster that knows how to work together provide great opportunities. Then we have to set up, make it possible for big companies to take the step into the transition we have ahead of us – it's bigger than ever. Then we have to invest in skills, more are going to be skilled workers, more are going to receive continuing training. At that time, the focus is on vocational training and vocational schools to achieve those objectives. For this reason, the Hurdal platform offers a major effort on practical skills and occupations. This will make more people experience mastering at school, and that will make us train more of the important skilled workers we need. This is why the Hurdal platform is opting for growth in post-secondary education, so that we can train more people at a higher professional level, more people will have the opportunity to take part in continuing education. That makes us hit in terms of the skills we need. More people are given the relevant skills, and more people are able to go from outside to entering the labour market. The competence of the skilled workers will be what drives us through the green shift. It will contribute to the creation of new technologies. Industry and skilled workers are the problem solvers, because they will contribute to a greener Norway while we want to keep people in work. We're going to develop tomorrow's technology in Norway, but we're also going to produce it in Norway. We must then invest in forward-looking and efficient production. Because if we are to solve the climate crisis, if we are to keep people at work, and if we are to secure our welfare state, we must bet on industry and trade union workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e826	Now everyone agrees that what we call the green shift is both a necessity and a great opportunity for Norwegian business. This government – and so did the previous government – implements good measures that contribute to the change. It's fine. But if we want to become non-smokers, it's a bad strategy first to smoke up the whole package and then hope that the nicotine vacuum has turned out before it's empty. The claim that Norway’s best change strategy is to invest in the petroleum activity we’re about to end with is going to stand up as a historical curiosity. The project we are implementing must be committed to and planned. The green shift is a race, both with physical and biological changes that will have violent consequences if we don't get control of them, and with other countries that have fewer choices and harder pressures than us to find solutions. That race wins Norwegian business only if we take over and get help with political goals and frameworks that are also much clearer and much more committed than the government is presenting on the Hurdal platform. The Green Party encourages the government to take over what the green shift is actually. It's creating well-being without destroying resources and life. We are going to support the majority in Stortinget that provides the most concrete policy for two radical system changes: Measures to re-use resources, not to consume resources — the airy concept of the circular economy must therefore be translated into making all production and trade responsible for taking costs to create well-being of re-using and not consuming. Then we will support actions that develop society without destroying nature. The demands we have expected to come from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change – which we are now laying the foundation for almost all policies and almost all industrial development – also provide biology for us. Policies must require, and it is the policy's task to facilitate the creation of well-being in technology and production without destroying nature. It's very radical and just as necessary as the climate job. The Greens are used to our realistic environmental policy being put to a vote. But we're also used to getting straight. Our call to the government and to this Greatness is to shorten the period between the Greens' good proposals and to create a majority for the Greens' policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e841	It's record power prices. I note that the high electricity prices until recently were the fault of the Solberg government, while the high electricity prices are now due to the weather, according to the new oil and energy minister. The newly proposed Minister of Finance has said that there is no miracle cure at high electricity prices. But the high prices make it difficult for many to get the ends to meet. We need to put in action with a social profile. The right has therefore put forward a proposal for action in both the short and longer term. In the short term, the Right will propose to increase housing support and social assistance to help households with poor advice in relation to high electricity prices. In the longer term, we will propose the development of much more renewable energy, including: by providing concessions for several offshore sea-window buildings of North Norway and Helgeland and by upgrading hydropower. In this way, we will ensure lower electricity prices for all, and not least for the competitiveness of Norwegian industry. This week, the Minister of Oil and Energy said that electricity prices should be evened out geographically, and that prices have to rise somewhere. I interpret it as the power prices – with government policy – are going up in North Norway. The Minister for Oil and Energy cannot be aware of the green industrial journey in Northern Ireland and North Norway, which is among the strongest green industry travels throughout Europe. The phenomenal job creation we have in the industry in the north has stable low power prices as its most important prerequisite. I hope the government doesn't turn the electricity prices up in the north and thus tighten their legs under a phenomenal green industrial venture, but rather votes for the Right's proposal, which will provide lower electricity prices for people and industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e852	A healthy, simple and good school meal is health policy, social policy and education policy in practice. We know that students learn best with food in their stomachs. We know that gathering around a meal gives comfort, prevents bullying and facilitates integration. We know that a school meal will balance economic and social differences between schoolchildren. Many school - feeding pilot projects over many years have shown that both students, teachers and parents are very satisfied and have good experience. For seven years, high school students received free school fruit. The Government of Erna Solberg removed the scheme in 2014. The centre party will create a society that promotes health throughout the population. Prevention is the answer, and the Center Party was the first party to propose one hour of physical activity every day in school. The core of prevention is healthy food, good eating habits and more physical activity. I am very pleased that our new Workers' Party-Center Party administration will have a gradual introduction of a daily, healthy and simple school meal for students in school. An organized school meal gives all students equal opportunities for learning. Several will be able to be included and implement the school system, get into work and become community contributors. The new government will lift the school. That children and young people with different backgrounds learn together is important for the community, builds up differences and builds trust. The centre party is pleased that there will be less measurement and testing and more practical teaching and learning. There will be a greater focus on physical and mental health, and a school meal can help achieve this. Therefore, the gradual introduction of a school meal is a future initiative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e863	I started at the back and at the bottom when I read the Hurdal platform. There I found the chapter on development policy, and there it was very good – let me say it. It was by no means a chapter of sorrow. Not least, it is very good that the platform confirms that the government will continue the Norwegian leadership in global health. In the budget for this year, the Christian People's Party in government just increased the allocation to global health by 60 p.m. We took on the leadership of the international efforts against the covid-19 pandemic, ACT-A, and in Norway we have been central to ensuring future global health security and pandemic preparedness. At the same time, the Christian People's Party in government launched a historic new effort on non-infectious diseases, including mental health, in development policy. The leadership role that Norway has and has taken has been built up over several decades with different political leaders and political leadership — and it must continue to be well managed. So I can't help but point out that in this field, the government has in many ways got a flight start, as the previous government has already implemented or begun an important point in the declaration: phase-out of oil for the development programme – adopted and initiated bet on food security and hunger reduction with particular emphasis on small scale production – one of the main efforts of the Christian People's Party in government establishing a climate action to replace clean energy coal; follow-up of a climate fund of 10 billion. kr, for which the Christian People's Party was passed, is already in progress I could still, but let me finish with a question that I hope to clarify today. The Hurdal platform says that the government ‘will use one per cent of gross national income for international efforts to achieve the UN objectives of social, economic and environmental sustainability’. In the Granavolden platform it was quite unambiguous that 1 pst. GNI should be allocated to official development assistance, ODA, and it ensured a certain proportion of the work for international justice, although it is the effect and result of the contribution we make, which is the most important and which is in the centre. But this goal is not as clearly formulated in the Hurdal platform, because it is far from all international efforts for the sustainability goals that are recognised as development assistance. I still take it for granted that the government parties, who have always supported the percentage, will continue to leave 1 pst. of GNI go to official development assistance, but I would like to give representatives of the government parties the opportunity to confirm that that understanding is correct, so that we can clear up any doubt about this. I look forward to such clarification.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e896	At the beginning of the harvest, the UN declared a red code for humanity – our planet is warmed up at record speed, and climate change is no longer something that can happen in the future. The price for politicians who haven't done enough, we now pay in terms of warmer and wild weather, ruined crops, floods and forest fires and thousands of people on the run. That is why this year’s election was also a climate choice and resulted in a new government – a Workers’ Party – Centrepartial Government. The voters clearly rejected the non-existent climate policy of the Right Government, but they also said no to a climate policy that is moralising, unsocial, punishing ordinary people, and cutting down jobs in Norway. On the other hand, the voters said yes to a climate policy that cuts emissions, creates jobs and is socially fair, and that is why I am very pleased that the Hurdal platform adds to it. The right has today proposed that the government should deliver a comprehensive climate plan within a few months. It's almost not to think that there was only one week right needed in opposition to seem unprofessional. Right sat with power for seven and a half years before climate came on the agenda and has zero credibility in this field. The right has been very concerned that the climate part of the Hurdal platform is unclear and not concrete. I wonder if we should have spanked a visual test on the whole big group to the Right, because here's a little bit of what we're going to do in the next few years: We're going to cut Norwegian emissions by 55 pst. So it's going to be the whole economy and it's twice the ambition of the right hand side. It's going to be a formidable effort, and we have great opportunities to succeed in it. Emissions must be at the heart of the strategy for growth, export and job creation. Norway shall again become an export nation. Unlike the outgoing government, we are going to pursue an active industrial policy and focus on areas such as carbon capture, sea wind, hydrogen and other renewable industries. We will introduce concrete targets for emission reductions for each sector and industry in Norway. We are going to create a new climate plan for the whole economy, which cuts emissions in line with Norway's climate targets. And we're going to present a climate budget as early as next year. We're going to have a fair electric car policy. Instead of granting VAT exemptions for expensive electric cars, we will use the funds to build charging stations throughout the country. There's fair migration in practice. And we're going to expand public transport and increase the commuter deduction, in which the outgoing government cut off, to make it more profitable to use buses and trains and for ordinary people to be left with more. Now it is the turn of ordinary people, and now it is the turn of the climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e926	We need to make it more attractive to be able to invest in our own jobs. For a long time I have been in good contact with many start-ups in Sogn and Fjordane, where I come from, and I know well that a challenge these often have is to recruit skilled employees. One of these is INTIN AS, which is a start-up and growth company, among other things. operate with the development and configuration of smart homes. In an interview with NRK in winter, the daily leader said that the company has great challenges in recruiting employees, especially before programming. INTIN AS – which has a good drive, growth and success – was aware that a good option tax system could be an important tool for attracting new, attractive employees. The company was also aware that today’s system was not good enough, and suggested improvements. In our time, the government of Solberg just came with such improvements, and these are part of the draft government budget. Improvements include: that the date of taxation is deferred to the date of the addition of the shares to the shares, that profit is taxed as capital income, and that the favourable arrangement is extended to many more activities. Being able to offer ownership to new employees in the company is a good and effective way to recruit new employees. Such a chance will often be just what it takes for an added tor to go from a safe and well-paid job, perhaps in a big city, to a less paid job in a newly started but exciting company in the districts. When the option arrangements are changed, it will be possible to offer ownership to new employees, making these companies more attractive. Yes, it may even be the decisive argument someone needs to move to Sogndal, Eid, Stord, Voss or one of the other small towns, towns or towns we have around the country. In the Hurdal platform it is said that a ‘see option taxation with the aim of allowing several employees to participate in the valuation of start-up and growth enterprises’. I thought this seemed defensive and would have liked to see a more offensive attitude from the new government's side. However, I choose to interpret the government platform so that one is in favour of the changes contained in the draft government budget. It should therefore now be a good opportunity for the proposal for a new option tax regime to be adopted. It will be very important for the many entrepreneurs, start-ups and growth companies we have around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e944	To experience respect for one's own boundaries and to have power over one's own body is a matter of course. Unfortunately, there are too many, and especially women, in society who feel that their borders are being trampled on, and that their power over their own bodies is being taken from them. Almost every three 18-year-old girl has ever experienced a physical sexual intrusion during life. The obstacles involved are everything from unwanted feeling and tafsing to rape or attempts at it. In a 2014 study by the National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress, the results show that one in 10 Norwegian women has been raped during life, almost half before the age of 18. There are so many that it's hard to put words on the scale. That means that in Oslo alone, 35,000 people will be raped during their lives. Think about how many people there are – there are more than they live in cities like Hamar, Gjøvik or Molde. That the work against rape is still poorly coordinated and under-prioritized, although it affects hundreds of thousands of people across the country, is a legal scandal. Neither the physical safety nor legal certainty of women has been adequately ensured by the State. The most important thing we can do to stop this is to prevent rape from happening initially. Therefore, it is essential that we focus on prevention by strengthening sexual education, and it must start as early as in kindergarten, with a particular focus on demarcation. Then we also have to change the law. Sex has to be voluntary, and if it's not voluntary, it's rape. The time is overdue to introduce an consent clause in the penal code. Critics of consent often claim that it is symbolic policy or not practical. With respect, that's not true. In Sweden, 75 pst. several have been convicted following the introduction of consent, the number of notifications has increased by 21 pst, and the number of appeals has increased by 80 pst. In addition, Norway has been criticised by the UN Women’s Committee several times because the Norwegian law on rape does not require consent. I am therefore pleased that the new government in its government platform says that they will start the work of introducing a consent permit. Fortunately, this is a work that doesn't have to take very long. Countries such as Greece, Germany, England, Denmark and Sweden are all countries which have such legislation. SV has therefore made a proposal that the government should come to Stortinget by the spring of 2022 with a proposal for consent. In this way, we can send a clear signal to the country's citizens that no means no and yes means yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e957	I am pleased that we have now received a government that will pursue a policy for growth and development throughout the country. The decline in the population of district municipalities should be turned to population growth. We've done that before. In 2015, when Erna Solberg resigned as a municipal minister, we had 249 municipalities with population decline. After eight years with the Central Party in government and in the Ministry of Local Affairs, the number was halved. Now the situation is even more dramatic than in 2005, but new government has given the district councils new confidence in the future, and the government platform has strong instruments. The most important thing is the introduction of a rule on rural policy impact assessments for all reforms and the need to assess rural policy considerations throughout all administration. Government activities shall be organised in such a way as to ensure that their competences are as close as possible to those of the population and that a strong environment of competence is built throughout the country. Now it's also time to get speed on the housing construction in the district. I am pleased that the new government will set up a grant scheme for housing in the district. If we're going to get young people to move back, we need to know how to do it. What does the youth himself say is important when they're coming back? First of all, they say that there must be work to be found, and gladly to be two when they are two in a family. In order to achieve this, we need a strong district policy that actually boosts growth across the country, and we need to focus on regional development in the counties. The centre party is committed to building growth agreements, and we need to secure the basic infrastructure. The county roads must be in order, and we must have both broadband and mobile coverage throughout the country. The framework for business is crucial, and the second most important district policy instrument is the differentiated employer charge. Secondly, they give priority to services near people. In order to ensure good kindergartens and schools in the community, a strong strengthening of the local economy is needed. We have announced that in the municipal bill, and the government will deliver on it. The third thing they point out is the freedom of the individual to settle in the part of the municipality they want. They often want good space and greater distance from the neighbor than they get in a residential area. Many will also live in the area to which they relate. It is then essential that the policy facilitates people to live outside the collective years. I believe it is absolutely essential that the Hurdals platform establish that state planning guidelines should be revised. The autonomy of municipalities should be strengthened by the possibility for all municipalities to develop both small and large communities throughout the municipality. After eight years of centralisation, a new course is taking place. That is why I am pleased that the new government is ready for the sun in its priorities. Norway needs a policy for the whole country, and we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e976	By 2030 we will cut over half of Norwegian emissions, while preserving well-being and creating new, profitable green industry and green jobs. Then the market, technology and state must move in the same direction, and then we must also reject the old-fashioned definition of what is an environmental party. It is not possible to be an environmental party in 2021 if the link between good industrial policy, climate policy and international policy is not seen. One is not an environmental party if one is skeptical about European cooperation and skeptical about the development of renewable energy and power exchange. One is not an environmental party if, in addition to the CO 2 tax, strong tax increases are proposed for industry and make it more difficult for businesses to invest and convert. Climate change is not a struggle against the market, it is a struggle for green business, green industry and new, profitable, green value chains. That is the core of the Right Climate and Environmental Policy. Greenhouse gas emissions have now declined for five consecutive years, and we have started a real green tax shift, increased use of climate requirements in public procurement and low and zero emission solutions in public transport, shipping and passenger transport. We put heavily on new green industries and green industries – we have heard it many times – hydrogen, sea wind and carbon capture and storage, to mention something. It creates opportunities for Norway. The government has come with a government platform that is surprisingly gray. To the extent that it points out one direction, it points backwards. The increase in the CO 2 tax, which is the most effective tool we have for cutting emissions and using the market in the environmental service, is eroded with several exceptions. The government says they're going to cut the greenhouse gas emissions by 55 pst, but without introducing any new concrete measures, neither new moralising nor not moralizing climate action. The closest we get is the investigation of new state companies within e.g. hydrogen, state company that could be competing the many businesses that we now see shooting speed. Moderation, generation responsibility and moderation are fundamental values for the Right. Today, natural systems are in serious trouble. We have eight times doubled our resource use from nature, and Norway is at the top of the world in use and waste. In the future, together with the European Union, we must succeed in the transition to a circular economy. We have to use material several times, make sure that products are designed to be recycled, recovered and repaired. It will require concrete changes to charging systems, producer responsibility and waste management. Right there will be in front. Right will fight for a more sustainable Norway where everyone has the opportunity to succeed. We will promote concrete, offensive and ambitious solutions in the field of climate and the environment. Then the government takes care of the slogans.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e995	There are too many people today who do not have a real opportunity to try their case before the court. The aim of free legal aid is for several persons with low incomes to be covered by the expenditure on legal assistance in several given areas. The income limit for free legal aid is currently 246 000 kroner for a single resident. For those who live together, it's NOK 369 000. This has not been changed since 2009. It implies that persons covered by the scheme in 2009 are no longer receiving the assistance they actually need and are not necessarily able to afford. In 2009 it was 15 pst. of the population who claimed free legal aid, the same figure today is 8.5 pst. As a result, legal certainty for an increasingly large group of people has been weakened over time. The entire free legal aid scheme is mature for change. The previous government therefore set up the Legal Aid Committee, which made its recommendations for a new scheme. In the draft budget for 2022, the Left and the Government propose to raise the income limit for free legal aid by 10 pst. This is a very important first step towards ensuring free justice for those with poor advice. Unfortunately, the legal aid mentioned in the Hurdal platform is not free. It should be mentioned that the economic risk arising from the decision of the courts is to be reduced. It's not that easy to say what that means. Something else I'm afraid of is the judicial reform. The Hurdal platform announces a reversal. The previous organisation of the courts met with criticism both from the Court of Justice and from the National Audit Office, and it was clear that the structure had little flexibility, vulnerability to disease and problems of instability. The reform, which entered into force in April of this year, is intended to strengthen legal certainty and provide a wider and equal court offering throughout the country. It reduces waiting time and ensures greater flexibility and stronger professional environments so that even smaller courts can create professional groups and specialise. Overall, all of this is very positive for legal certainty. The reform also maintains skills jobs in the districts and ensures that users are close to the courts in the future. In my own jurisdiction, Agder, who until now has been a large part of my working day, the employees of the courts are now afraid of a reversal. They describe that the proposal for reversal creates unrest and frustration. For what does the point of reversal really mean? How is unity defined? This is the recipe for decision-making. The court administration has estimated that a reversal will cost 75 million. kr, and that the annual expenditure will be SEK 37 million. kr higher than if one leaves the reform standing. I firmly believe that we should listen to the professionals of the Judiciary Association, the Judiciary's Association and the Association of Lawyers and leave the judicial reform standing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1011	Follow the UN is 50 pst. has been destroyed by the global ecosystem in the last 50 years, in my lifetime, due to human activity. The five main causes of biodiversity loss are all man-made, and land use change is the main cause. I am very pleased that Prime Minister Jonas Gahr Støre is so clear today that the natural crisis and climate crisis must be resolved at the same time. Area management at sea becomes very important in this magnification period, and we have an energy message on the table. But I did not think the government statement is good enough policy for the natural and climate crisis with the oil policy outlined. The public opinion, the fishing fields west of the Moorbanks and along the edge of the Egga, where my father and his father fished, are now exposed to oil and gas search, although there is a bottom with coral reefs and with vulnerable and very valuable areas. Both scientists and fishermen are concerned, for the area where the Worm Lange gas field lies is deep sea, almost desert. The edge of the egg–Activeset and the areas west of the Morebanks are quite different. On deep water there is little life, but when one comes over 650 meters, one comes into the areas where reddish winters, and where there are corals, other vulnerable and important bottom fauna and important habitats for fish. This ecosystem is important both for CO 2 binding and for food production. So, this is about nutrition, climate and nature. The professional basis for notifying. St. 20 for 2019-2020, on the management plans for the Norwegian sea areas, showed that there was a need for a holistic review of all SVOs, i.e. particularly valuable and vulnerable areas, in the Norwegian sea areas. A multidisciplinary expert group has carried out the first part of this task and made its report in 2021, i.e. the environmental value assessments. However, the vulnerability assessments themselves, describing activity, do not appear until the spring of 2022. Nevertheless, very many search areas are defined as vulnerable in the TFO round in 2020 and in 2021. It is very important to strengthen national research and monitoring of marine ecosystems through the Mareano project and its activities. Round Environmental Centre. And then we have to make sure to use the knowledge and be led were for those marine ecosystems that are so hugely important, both for CO 2 binding and for food production. We've been doing a good job on the oil for over 50 years, and it might be a few more decades, but the fish and the biological production in the ocean have been there for tens of thousands of years. Now, it's our responsibility to ensure that ecosystems do not cause any additional damage.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1030	A focus on children and young people is the best investment for the future. An African saying says that a whole village is required to raise a child. All children are everyone's responsibility. Unfortunately, too many children in Norway do not get the growth and care they deserve and need. This has become even more visible under the pandemic, where closed schools, no access to leisure activities, and the disappearance of large parts of the support device have made the situation even more unsustainable for many. For these children, school and kindergarten are important, but good and accurate child protection is also important, in cooperation with other institutions and the community. That's why I'm so glad that the Hurdal platform sets clear targets for child protection, and that it underlines the community's responsibility for the best for the children. We must have a high-quality child protection in all municipalities, a child-restraint to prevent and help the children who are subjected to care failure and who ensure safety. We need child protection with increased competence, better time and confidence to carry out our task. It is good to see that the government should support and seek to strengthen child protection services, increase staffing and ensure funding for child protection reform. Focusing on prevention and early intervention could prevent more in-depth action later, but that turn will take time, and we need to ensure that all children receive the follow-up needed during a transitional period. We also need to recognise that there will be children who will need more comprehensive measures, either in institutions or in foster homes, and to ensure that it is not the municipal economy that is crucial to providing it. I love the municipality, and the municipality has shown a tremendous capacity for conversion and outstanding efforts to follow up new tasks and provide good services to its citizens, especially through the pandemic. But it requires that municipalities be given time, trust, predictability and sufficient resources. Then it is reassuring that the Hurdal platform says that municipalities need to secure resources and freedom of action to perform their tasks, and that they are to provide an income system that ensures an equivalent service provision throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1045	For eight years, the Left has been pursuing offensive climate and environmental policies from the United Kingdom, both in budgetary cooperation and from government. We have good results. Electric car sales in Norway have decreased in the course of these years from less than 5 pst. until now more than 90 pst., blending of biofuels is now well over 20 pst., and in the case of green shipping, we do more in Norway, faster than any other country, whether there are fast boats or there are rivers. Now the autonomous, electrical cargo ships come in a short time. Collective action in the big cities is a success. Urban growth agreements are drawn up by the OECD in their list of 10 recommended climate action measures. There are far more trains going than ever, and climate action is driving business development across the country. That's a good starting point for what's going to be done further. We have notified new targets to the UN after the Paris Agreement with 50-55 pst. reduction, and we have set up an agreement with the EU on common climate targets in 2030. We have also presented and implemented a climate plan in Stortinget to implement these commitments. Emissions are falling – they have fallen for five years. We were unable to achieve the 2020 target. We lacked 600,000 tons. Probably we'll reach that goal this year, one year too late. But now the pace has to up. We're going to achieve the climate targets with 55 pst. By 2030, we have to reduce by 2.6 million tonnes each year. But what is actually on the Hurdal platform? On concrete measures, the proposals are weakened. The objective of only the sale of a zero-emission vehicle in 2025 has become fossil-free cars. The other categories of vehicles — heavy goods vehicles, vans — are not mentioned. The public use of electric cars or zero-emission vehicles from 2022 is impaired. The use of environmental taxes, both the CO 2 tax and other environmental taxes, is highly uncertain, and there is no new measure in a situation where we need to have reinforced measures. It's on climate. But we are also in a natural crisis. There we must stop the loss of natural diversity. We need to protect more nature by 2030. But what do we see? The protection of the forest is weakened. In general, protection is weakened. There are no targets in the platform. The only place that is clear is to reduce the stock targets for bears and wolves – to reduce the level of conflict. Reducing the level of conflict is easy, because the player who has driven the most to build the conflict around predators is now in government as a partner with the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1059	Yesterday, the representative Linda Hofstad, Greece, said that it had not gone so well when the state had pushed itself into business. Then I think there's room for a little bit of history here in Stortinget, because we have at least one example called Statoil, now Equinor. Not only did they press in, they were the result of visionary, effective government and magnificence leaders, who realized that industrial development is a matter both of how to use natural resources and, not least, of how to distribute values for future generations. It is really the path on which the Hurdal platform is based, and then it is a great paradox that there are claims from both right-wing politicians and some journalists that there is no direction or concrete here. Well, here it's so concrete that for the 2000s we've picked up some of the most modern and forward-looking ideas that make us have the economic space we have today. Then I also want to make a recommendation for a book that I read this summer. Mariana Mazzucato has written a book called ‘A New Economy’, in which she shows how the state and the private industry get together to innovation. There might be the parallel of Statoil to NASA. When the United States was going to launch a moon landing project, a lot of the innovations that have later become crucial for the US and the rest of the world were based on research funded by the US state. But they didn't just give away money without making any demands: they had clear expectations about what the private business was going to do – just as we are now demanding emissions reductions, among other things. The representative of Elvestuen actually made a statement in line with what Hofstad Helleland and some journalists are coming with, saying that there is nothing concrete here. Well, then let's go to work concretely and go from offshore to mainland. The Hurdal platform states quite explicitly that we are to build installations for industrial wood recycling. So if the Storting will one day replace this interior, we will no longer burn it and release CO 2 – then it will be recycled and used in new, modern construction materials and interior products. That measure alone can save as much as 300,000 tonnes of CO2 cut in one year, and then we talk about concrete things. But it does not seem that neither Elvesuen, Hofstad Helleland nor some commentators have actually read specific points in the Hurdal platform. I strongly recommend that, because there you can see the power of action that we can trace back to both the creation of Statoil and to NASA's idea of lunar landing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1078	Child poverty is increasing. In some urban areas, we have tripled families with long-term low incomes. The segregated government is increasing in cities, especially between those with the most, and those with the least in the wallet. This has happened on the Right Guard. We should not have believed that after hearing the representative Heidi Nordby Lunde, who from the pulpit earlier today said that we in the Hurdal platform admit that the gap in living conditions between poor urban areas and the rest of the country is increasing. We're fixing a fact, a fact that has to do a little bad. After eight at the rudder, several of the children growing up in life-threatening areas have had more difficult lives. What has the Right in Position done for these children when after eight years there are more than when the Right took over the control of the country? Researchers said in the evening post in 2017 that it would be to go too far to say that living in a poor area is poor, but living in an area with many neighbours with poor living conditions, low income and low education reduces one’s chances of life. But the last government will have: they ordered and got a NOU on living conditions in the cities. So the NOU found that the inequality is increasing, and that children in low-income families are now living in the same neighborhood to a greater extent than before. The NOU points to important factors in balancing living conditions, namely good universal schemes: quality in kindergartens and schools is crucial, an income system for municipalities that is accurate to meet these challenges, and the major urban grant. Not least, the NOU also points to the importance of housing policy, but it is most important to qualify more people for work, so that they can support themselves and their families. The Hurdal platform provides a lift for them with at least the wallet. We want to strengthen the free revenues of municipalities – no action is more important than that. By providing municipalities with a safe and good economy, so that they can offer good services to their citizens, they will at least get better, for example: by reducing the maximum price in kindergarten and making kindergartens free of charge from the third child who has at the same time. We want to strengthen and expand area initiatives in the big cities. We have achieved an incredibly positive result for the neighbouring companies in Groruddalen through Groruddalssatsingen. Not least we have engaged people locally for their own community. And we want to strengthen the House Bank and promote an active housing policy. By participating in the labour market, most people will be able to support themselves and their families and thus avoid poverty. That's why getting more people to work is so important to the new government. We clearly say in the Hurdal platform that we will strengthen the work of qualifying more people for work. Now is the turn of ordinary people, even in the big cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1097	In the last eight years, there has been an increasing centralisation in the country. Of course, all blame should not be given to the outgoing government, but it has definitely given its contributions. It was eight years of centralisation of state services and functions, where the state disappeared from many communities, with its services, preparedness and jobs, and actually remained absent. It marked people, the marked community. Examples of this are municipalities that have experienced a multiple of extra costs for fire and rescue because they have to move out more often when police and ambulances have been further away and have spent longer time – or not coming. The extra costs of municipalities are one thing: people and the community experience of insecurity, increased suffocation and less trust are much worse. It is about equivalent services for everyone across the country, it is about security and faith in the future. It's about some of the most important qualities in Norwegian society, as we've known it. For those who believe that it is not that many more people experience abstinence and have less confidence that they are acting as society and state and are experiencing increasing differences, a reality check is really recommended throughout the country and a look at the election results. I am very pleased that some of what the new government and Hurdal platform focus most on is putting ordinary people's interests first and having a policy that allows for a good life in Norway in the future. That we now have a government with ambitions for the whole country and the many communities throughout the country, there are many who rejoice and have expectations for – me too. However, it is sad to note that representatives from the Right Party both inside and outside this Chamber are partly hallucinating with the importance of, for example, increased commuting allowances and free ferries for the development of society throughout the country. They have to take a trip to North Troms and District Norway and check out the realities. These are important measures to ensure value creation and employment that actually bring good income to the country. But unfortunately, someone hasn't forgotten how to centralize even more, and still stands for it. That's what I think people are going to remember. That is why I and many others are very pleased that the Workers' Party-Center Party government is now going to have good years to facilitate the development of the whole country and for everyone in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1112	Today, in my very first post here at Stortinget, I am both humble and happy to be able to make an article about one of my heart matters. In the Hurdal platform, the following is stated: ‘[g]continue and improve arrangements for families with children with special needs and ensure that children with special needs also receive follow-up and organisation in the school-time arrangements.’ What does this mean? Both in the municipality of Asker, where I have been a local politician, and in the municipality of Drammen, where I have worked in the PPT for a number of years, the parents have contacted me on this important theme, that their children must get the help they need in the SFO period. It is such that children of kindergarten age can obtain this right through expert judgement. This also applies to students at school. However, in the transition between kindergarten and school, this right applies only in parts of children’s school days. When school day is over, often as early as noon. 12 or 13, students, who often follow-up throughout the day, have no rights in the SFO period. Children who use sign language, who need emotional or behavioural regulation, or who have other disabilities that give them the right to follow-up, do not stop having these needs because school hours are over. The parents of disabled children are also often horrified at school, and many are very surprised when they realize that the children’s right to follow-up applies only during the hours of schooling. Many, often mothers, then consider whether they can stand in full employment, and for most, this uncertainty, although schools and SFOs are facilitating as best they can, is an enormous concern these parents do not need at the top of the care burden. We are talking about the most vulnerable children in Norway and their families. I am proud that the Workers' Party together with the Center Party in the Hurdals platform determines that this is something we need to change. Children with special needs will also receive the follow-up they need in the SFO period – a matter that all parents of children with disabilities and those employed in school, kindergarten and SFO know the importance of, and not least the children themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1128	When I stand here on the Stockholm Chair for the first time, I have thought about why I am involved in politics. For me, politics is a tool for creating safe neighbourhoods and for ensuring that people around us have equal opportunities regardless of their background. I believe that the world, Norway, my city and my living environment around me on Bøler are served that the differences are not too big. It's good for me, for my family and for my neighbors that the people around us are doing well. Here, security is a key word – ensuring that our kids have good kindergartens, a good school, equal opportunities for education, meaningful leisure activities and eventually buying their own homes. It's safe that we have a job to do, and that the work life is characterized by seriousness, a salary to live off and a safe community, and the security that we get a good care when we get sick or old, or when we need for other reasons that the community is there for us. To me, the political direction is important for which society I want: security, strong communities, small differences, equal opportunities. I'm an oslogutt and proud of my city. I'm proud of the direction the city has taken in recent years, with an Labour Party-led city council. In the government platform, I see clear signs that the Oslo course, with the development of well-being, social cohesion and cut greenhouse gas emissions, is now going to be national policy. It's good for those who live on the Tøen, in Tana or on the Tynset. In the Hurdal platform, the government says the state should cover 70 pst. the costs of the major collective projects. It means a lot when we're building a new T-Bahn tunnel. Many bikes, go or drive a car, but most in Oslo travel by the T-Bahn. Remember, the Oslo T-Bahn has 120 million passengers a year – by comparison, all trains in the country carry 80 million passengers. Tomorrow, the new Munch Museum will open in this city. Rejoice to it, and glide to summer, when we can swim from Munch Bridge and the new Opera Beach – and that in a fjord that the government promises action to save, it's urgent. Like Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde, I would like to encourage all the representatives to get to know each other in Oslo. The fjord is mentioned, but the mark is amazing. When the government of the platform determines that it should be well equipped for outdoor activities in cities, for example: in the universal design of highways, it is very pleasant. The government determines that they will strengthen and expand the range of initiatives and prevent child poverty. There are important measures to combat social inequality. The father of the friend of my son is driving taxi. At taxi drivers in this city, the government is delighted that it will stop the freefall of the taxi industry and cooperate with industry and the trade union movement in order to combat social dumping. I love hard work and have spent a lot of time on it. It creates cohesion and is fun and meaningful. When the government now promises full VAT compensation for volunteering, it creates joy at the corps of Bø and at Bøler, Grorud and Grue, and Hol and Holmlia.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1143	Art and culture are important in every human life, whether you read a book, go to the theater, play handball in the local sports team or play in the corps. Good conditions for art and culture are important for both practitioners and consumers. It is important for the creative human being, for the spirit and soul, for the cohesion of the community, for the participation of children and young people and for the richness of experience. The government's proposal for a cultural budget is weak and unclear in several areas. It was therefore with great joy and enthusiasm that I read the cultural chapter of the Hurdal platform. The government's commitment to culture reaps praise in Culture and Freedom Norway, now it's only up to the government to deliver. In particular, it is in the areas of art and culture for all — grants to voluntary organisations, sports teams, groups, leisure activities, cultural schools and open public libraries in all municipalities — that a new cultural promise is required. A new cultural promise must be a cultural promise for this base wall, which is important for the creation and use of culture throughout the country. It's about the cultural budget, but it's also about the municipal budget. A strong cultural fund that manages grant schemes helps to create the arm's length distance from policy decisions that provide a free and independent cultural life. Therefore, it is important to support the Culture Fund as an autonomous manager. A rich and varied art and cultural life depends on the creators and practitioners of art. Practitioners and creators shall be able to live by art regardless of class background and have proper working conditions. That is why we need to facilitate an artistic policy in which artists get predictable frames and more scholarships, and make it safer and easier to be employed in safe conditions. We're going to be a vigil to create more scholarships and put in place good arrangements like the Musikkallansen, as we've seen actors and dancers have done. SV is pleased that the government will introduce full VAT compensation for voluntary organisations. It will mean a lot in dollars and an ear for the operation of teams and associations all over the country. SV is also pleased that the government is adding up to a escalation for the culture of 1 pst. by the State budget. We're a lot away from it today. There is a great deal of excitement to how quickly it will appear in the budget when the government has now said it will be in favour of a gradual escalation. SV has expectations that some of the funds will come in 2022. For SV, it is also important to ensure good framework conditions for the editor-driven media. We need good local and regional media with competence and social responsibility. Therefore, it is important to strengthen media support, so that free drafting throughout the country makes working conditions exercise their role as social critics. SV sees many good intentions in the submitted platform to the government. It creates expectations of a cultural promise for the benefit of both practitioners and consumers – yes, simply a culture for the many, and not just for the few at the top.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1164	The government's platform is clear that we should facilitate industry and new jobs. We're going to cut greenhouse gas emissions and create jobs across the country. We need to do so, among other things. make use of the possibilities contained in the natural resources we have in Norway. I want to take the aquaculture industry. The industry is of major importance for Norwegian food production and value creation. It is very good that the government is so clear that they will facilitate further growth in the industry, to create more jobs, more processing, greater value creation and increased export income. The outgoing government presented its aquaculture strategy this summer. The strategy adds to the growth in nutrition, but themes such as processing or processing are not specifically mentioned or weighted. I would like to stress that increasing value creation is not just about increasing production volume, it must also be about higher levels of processing, and then, of course, in Norway. Unfortunately, a lot of fish are exported from Norway without being processed. That means that the fish is being processed elsewhere in the world, and we're missing out on valuable residue. Not least the climate image becomes unnecessarily large. Worst of all, we may experience fish being transported out of the country and imported back into the processed state. The potential for increased value creation in processing is high. We get better paid for every kilo of fish, we keep valuable residue, the climate pressure is greatly reduced, and it allows for many more jobs. To illustrate what volume we're talking about here, let me give you an example. Bremnes Seashore, located in my own municipality of residence, Bømlo, and, among other things, produce salmon salmon, produce equivalent half a million midday tracks — not in the year, not in the week, but every day — half a million dinners every day. Only 30 pst. of which the goods have been processed. When we know that this is perhaps the best company in processing in Norway, it shows that the potential for increased value creation in the industry is enormous. Now this company will process a larger part of the production. It requires good cooperation between the industry and the authorities. It is therefore a very good signal for the industry that the government is signaling that they will facilitate simplification, regulatory clean-up and better cooperation between authorities and industry to create a more holistic administration. It is very good that the government is so clear on the platform, that aquaculture is a bet area. We will take advantage of the natural advantage of farming fish in coastal and fjords, while stimulating innovation and the use of new technologies. If we are to have more processing in Norway, there is a need for robust framework conditions and good dialogue between authorities and industry. That's what this government is doing to us.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1178	We live in a moving country, and we, who are from the West, are well used to them breaking mountains and our lines coming down furiously without warning. We have even developed our own neck position to look for race when we run a car. Only in these days can we read about the highways and highways that happen or are cut off by race and flooding, especially in Hordaland. This is the daily use of children, workers and professional drivers. These roads are an opportunity to travel, because we know that race comes, but rarely when. Over the last few years, the West has learned of a government that has not prioritised the rascal routes. The county has been given less means of transport and has been able to cut rather than secure. I am therefore pleased that we have now received a government that takes this seriously. This government, together with the county councils, shall draw up a national implementation plan for racial and tailor-made protection of all national highways and highways with a high and medium step factor. This is good news, because this is where action is needed. Closely, there are major socio-economic consequences. These are transport veins on which business depends. A better approach will increase the benefits for society in terms of reducing the cost to road users as a result of better behaviour. The government believes that infrastructure development needs to be implemented in a way that gives the most money back, and that large public investment in infrastructure should contribute to local and regional jobs. Better manners provide security and stability for those who travel there, provide opportunities for business, and improve not least the daily lives of ordinary people who live their lives in the countryside and cities. The well-known proverb says: Rome was not built in one day. Nor will there be roads in the West. However, the national implementation plan on race and tailoring becomes an important tool in the right direction to ensure people a safe and sustainable everyday life on the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1191	We want to shift power to ordinary people in all areas of society. This is one of the clear objectives of the Hurdal platform. Finally, Norway has a government that will give ordinary people more influence over its community and its country. In recent years more and more power has been moved further away from people. An example is the so-called near-police reform. It gave the centralization of the Norwegian police of the time. But how did that happen? Well, the police director and the police director, who didn't get a single voice in a single election, got the power to decide where it was supposed to be, and where it wasn't supposed to be. Now we're turning the evolution around. Instead of going down, we're going to set up 20 new police stations. We're going to strengthen positions of service all over the country, and we're going to go thoroughly through the Police Directorate's resources and power. Robbery policy is another example where it is necessary to move more power closer to people, closer to those who live near the predators. It says a little about the frustration that was when one of the greatest political demonstrations in modern times was not against a decision taken by a magnificence, but for a decision taken by a magnificence. It was for the government to follow up a decision taken in Stortinget. The Government Platform clearly states that a more restrictive predatory policy should be pursued. We will reduce the burden on grazing industries and communities, and in particular we will strengthen the role of regional predators. Now, fortunately, all forms of coercion or pressure on municipal or county mergers are to be brought to an end. Centralisation of power leads to centralisation of people. There isn't a single municipality today that doesn't have a school, a kindergarten, a nursing home, but there's a lot of abandoned municipalities where there's no longer any of these services left. Defenders of community mergers have sometimes tried to ridicule the resistance to identity and feelings. But it's not a problem that people are proud of their municipality, proud of their hometown, that's good. We want to burn as much as possible to take care of and develop their municipality. Through the Hurdal platform, we have now given the coercive municipalities the opportunity to regain independence. We want to remove those parts of the income system that punish municipalities that don't merge. This government will move power back to people all over Norway. That work has already begun.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1212	We only have this ageing period and another one on us to achieve our climate goals for 2030. It's urgent, but if we steer the transition and make it a fair green shift with an active state-owned industrial policy and a large-scale expansion of climate-friendly and environmentally friendly infrastructure, we can create great values at the same time. Eastfold is a very good example of this. We have major projects for both climate and value creation that can really build the state for the future. Building the rail with double tracks all the way to the Swedish border to transport people and goods in a more efficient and environmentally friendly way cuts emissions and create values. Or carbon capture and storage for circular economies in the ORA and the surrounding district: it provides large potential climate change and high-tech jobs at the same time. Or Borg Port: They accept large quantities of goods on the keel instead of trailer traffic on our roads, which is vital for thousands of jobs in the district. But they have also waited year after year for the state to grant money to mud in the fairway. Now there are more and more ships that cannot add berth. This is a very typical example, for these large projects for climate and value creation in Eastfold have been systematically deprived by the right-wing government. Instead of expanding the double track on the railway in order to get faster trains, more departures and fewer delays, the previous government has cancelled 20 years with promises and rather prioritised large new motorway projects. Therefore, there are now skyrocketing expectations of a political shift to build the country and Eastfold for the future. And SV is clear: we have fully financed the mud in Borg Hafen. The government platform does not mention that. Here we will be a proponent. We have proposed funds for carbon capture and storage in Ear. The government platform doesn't mention Ear, but other projects elsewhere, and there we will be a proponent also for Fredrikstad. And we have proposed full expansion of the double track on the railway all the way to Halden and the Swedish border. The platform says to ‘maintain ambitions’. That's good, but also there we'll be a proponent for that to happen more than just maintaining the ambitions. The development must also be carried out. At all, SV is going to use our key role on Stortinget constructively as a driver of a fair green shift that builds the country, builds Eastfold and fills the ambitions with political content, and cuts emissions while creating new values.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1225	Now is the turn of ordinary people. Many of the representatives of the four former government parties, the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party, have tried to separate the term 'common people', but people understand well what it means. The result of the choice shows it. People don't want more differential policies; people want work, well-being and fair climate policies. The election result is historic. We've got a big one with 100 red-green representatives – almost 60 pst. The red-green declaration of the big government is based on an explicit objective of bringing together a red-green majority in the Storting, in line with the wishes of the voters. Now it's up to us to manage this majority as the voters expect of us. SV's leader, Audun Lysbakken, drew in his post yesterday the lines back to the crisis settlement in the interwar period, and it was quite interesting, for what was the situation then? Yes, an enormous poverty in cities and rural areas, a working life marked by repeated labour disputes in the form of strikes and lockouts. Then the social partners took responsibility, and the first major agreement saw the light of day. Together with the crisis settlement between the Workers' Party and the Bond Party, the foundation for tripartite cooperation was laid, and it gave us the welfare society we know today. Faced with today's great challenge, climate crisis, the Workers' Party will build on this tradition, along with our red-green friends in big business and government. We want a fair climate policy that creates jobs, does not liquidate them, based on the competences of the social partners, and in cooperation with an active state. Only in this way can we save the climate and nature of our descendants and at the same time strengthen the well-being of the whole country. In the election campaign, the Labour Party launched its own growth plans for each electoral district, based on what is already a priority to build on. And the growth plans were received positively, including in Buskerud, which I represent, where we chose to highlight high-tech industry, forest, soil, water, travel life, recovery – to mention something. And ordinary people and business knew each other. Many have already made contact and are ready to contribute to the green shift, provided that the state also contributes. It illustrates an important point. The opposition claims that the government statement is not concrete enough, but it is incorrect. The concrete answers to today's greatest challenges are not found in the Storting or government offices alone. The solutions can only be found by working closely with the professional, business and research environments we have, together with an active country – and not with a passive and business-neutral state, which unfortunately has influenced Norway in the last eight years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1240	Of course, a debate of the throne and the declaration will point forward towards what we are now going to do to solve the challenges, but there are many of the speeches in this debate that have pointed backwards. Yes, we who have represented the position have been proud, and we've talked about what we've been through these eight years, but the new position politicians have also described some of what has happened. I wonder when the Workers' Party's Health Policy spokesman, Cecilie Myrseth, says that there has been too weak a commitment to mental health in these eight years. In that case, it cannot be recorded that there are nearly 2,600 more annual works in municipal mental health and drug work than they were in 2016. It is the strongest growth in the year since the start of the escalation plan that ended in 2008. We have made an enormous increase in health and school health services and strengthened these appropriations by 1.3 billion. kr. Psychologist requirements have been introduced in the municipalities. The working party removed the requirement of competence before leaving the government offices in 2013. We are demanding that there be access to psychologists in the municipalities. There are 487 more posts since 2013, and 93.8 pst. of the municipalities now have psychological competence in place. I could have mentioned more. Then Cecilie Myrseth continues to say that now you're here, after eight years of underprioritising health care. It is difficult to recognise also in the case of specialist health services. The working party, for example, went. for elections in 2013 to provide one million more patients in Norwegian hospitals by 2017. We reached that goal two years earlier, in 2015. At the same time, we also reduced health cows by 56 000. How have we done this in the specialist health service? Well, we've removed the ceiling on how many patients can treat public hospitals. We've increased the payment for hospital activity. We have purchased more free capacity from private individuals, and we have introduced the reform of free treatment options. The evaluation shows that those who have used that scheme have had shorter waiting times, and the scheme has contributed to increased freedom of choice and diversity. I could say a lot more, but I want to end by saying that I also want to look forward. Now it's important that we work well. This increase will experience a Right Opposition that will take care of the patient’s health service and challenge the government to ensure that the waiting times go down, that the activity goes up, and that Norwegian healthcare continues to be as good as it is now when they have been taken over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1255	From Rogaland. As a fellow human being, I'm busy that everyone should be able to live the life they want. As a fellow human being, I have the ability to contribute to the lives of those I meet. As a representative of big business, I have the responsibility that people should be able to live what they want, and that people should be able to feel safe about this. As the elected representative of the Centre Party, I have the possibility to take this responsibility. This year's selection shows that the great majority want a new direction. The Government statements of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party just show this. We in this room are responsible for the security of everyone in our country. A safe meeting with the health care system depends on this. A large part of our lives is at work. We need to show trust in health professionals across the country, health professionals who are proud of their job. That's how we get decent birth and maternity care. That's how we get a good meeting with mental health, with the care of the elderly and with all the other parts of health. We're going to take the patient's love back. The most competent candidates will be able to work in a patient-friendly manner. The reporting requirement shall be reduced. The requirements shall be reduced and the confidence shall be increased. When one hears and experiences what it's like for our women and men in white, I'm happy that the government takes this seriously. During the eight-to-twelve hours, there is little time for a lunch break or a rest break. We have committed ourselves to setting up a Health Personnel Commission, which, together with those involved and those involved in debt, should provide measures to train, recruit and retain qualified health professionals. The keyword here is to keep. We will take seriously those who choose to leave the profession. When we hear the stories of those who work in the health services across the country, we have a job to do. And we have to. We have to take responsibility for people being able to live the life they want.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1266	Over the past two days, we have heard many ideological contributions from representatives of the government parties – not the loose and uncommitted finders that it is the turn of ordinary people across the country that we are so happy about, but the ideology of business policy. The representative, after representatives from the Labour Party and the Centre Party, has joined the Chair and talked about the need for a more active industrial policy in this country. I've tried to listen very carefully to what comes in the next joint sentence, but it almost seems that the ideology of a more active business policy is not filled with content. There are no examples of how a more active industrial policy should be put into practice. The reasoning stops by the previous majority pursuing a passive industrial policy, while the current majority is pursuing an active industrial policy. The rhetoric used is quite powerful in return: a new course is needed. But it should not be about tax relief, which businesses are concerned with. It is not possible to invest in infrastructure, which is requested on each company visit. Nor can it be about strengthening the instrument, industrial research and development, a better education system, more people completing secondary education, or simplifications in legislation and bureaucracy. All of this has been followed up by the previous majority, but it was passive industrial policy. The active business policy is now to be implemented. If there's something that should scare taxpayers, it's just that, because we've tried that before. The active business policy is, I think, about the state and government picking winners in business – that 19 people in the inner circle of the landfill are better than the market to predict what will be profitable and not in the years to come. In fact, both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Industry have done well both in the stock market and as business managers, but it is still a bit from that to managing our common capital, our common savings fund. We have several examples of misguided active enterprise policies from the last time the Workers' Party and the Center Party ruled the country. The state then entered the owner's side of a door factory in Årdal. It would replace lost jobs. At the end of the day, taxpayers lost $80 million. kr. The State also bought into Aker Holding AS; nor did it end up with huge success, neither financial nor reputational. The wisest thing taxpayers can do in this situation, where once again a more active business policy is to split on a tailor who can sew the pockets of Kjell Inge Smoke and other smart capitalists who are ready to pick up free money from the state on the street.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1283	Finally, we have received a Labour Party-led government that will ensure that Norway is given a new and fairer course. With the Hurdal platform, we put the interests of ordinary people first and make it possible to live a good life throughout Norway. I am delighted to take up the work of combating growing inequality and giving people more power over their own everyday lives. Working for everyone in a safe working life is the key to fairer distribution and freedom for the individual. That is why the government platform makes it clear that we want to combat social dumping, among other things. in the transport sector, where we will put in place a long-awaited action plan against social dumping. In addition, we listen to taxi drivers across the country and will therefore stop the release in the taxi industry – both for customers to be safe and for drivers to be able to live off their jobs. If we are to be able to create jobs and facilitate housing throughout the country, we need to invest in good infrastructure. Here's good, and not least safe, weighs a very decisive assumption. That is why I am pleased that the new government will now take the initiative to develop, together with the county councils, a national plan for racial protection and tailoring for all highways and highways of great racial peril. In addition, a few have to put in place a comprehensive and binding plan to reduce the maintenance run we see on the highways and county roads throughout the country. For these works, we must ensure that tenders are designed so that local and regional actors can participate, so that we contribute to activity and jobs also locally. It is active enterprise policy, it is. Finally, if there is one thing the corona pandemic has shown us, it is the importance of having in place a robust and efficient infrastructure, a digital infrastructure. It's going to be absolutely crucial for us to be able to build the country in the time to come. Therefore, the Hurdal platform is clear that the state must take greater responsibility for expansion in areas where expansion is not profitable, in order to ensure that all households where people live have access to high-speed broadband by 2025, and to make access to high-speed Internet a rights equal to electricity. I don't think it can become so much more clear and concrete than that. In this way, the Workers' Party and the Centre are giving priority to ordinary people throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1298	We have to stick with our own workers. The pandemic has taught us that. The government will rust Norway to deal with more storms, in a double sense. Preparedness must be strengthened at all levels. Professionals who can do the everyday jobs are crucial. We have to stick with our own professionals, because as workers we also have a life outside the working hours. Life outside working hours promotes family life, builds the many communities with family, friends, hard work, community, voluntary organisations and political commitment. We need to build better societies, safer societies, more people need to participate. Therefore, as a country, we need to make far less dependent on guest workers who do not participate in Norwegian social life. We need to ensure safer and more predictable working conditions for both managers and employees. People have to get safer income, so that, among other things. the bank trusts your ability to pay. We need to get stronger professional organisation. A more well-organised working life is a prerequisite for a safe family life. We need to strengthen the wage and working conditions of workers who under the pandemic were characterised as critically important labour. We have to stop talking about the hard work of those who earn the least. Many provide much extra in critical times, but it has to be paid. We need to raise the status of vocational training and bring forward the reputation of butchers, health professionals, gardeners, welders, merchants, travel and fish processing workers, farmers, skilled workers and truck drivers – all who carry out their work with modern technology. The government will work for greater equality of economic, social and status between peoples. It is essential to ensure trust in society, and it is necessary in order to better fulfill the dream of a future in the practical professions of many young people. The government shall initiate legal work in order to limit the scope and role of the manning companies. Manning companies must be replaced by temporary employment agencies, in the view of the Centre Party – temporary employment agencies which can also provide employment services between jobseekers and the enterprise. Temporary employment agencies must have permanent staff who are used to temporarily cover specific vicariates, according to the Working Environment Act § 14-9, second paragraph, point (b). This migration requires a transitional period, e.g.: two years, in order to give Norwegian business and working life predictability and the need for vocational training. The business community must get the professionals it needs after such a change. The Government declaration has given a clear direction. The slogan must be that as a country we must stick with our own workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1326	When you read the government statement, it is almost fascinating to see how you are very much willing to go back to what has been a rhetoric for many years: political promises in the election campaign for reversal, which has now ended in a tactical retreat. And no, I'm not talking about Andeya. I'm actually talking about the field of justice and preparedness. When I read the platform, there is a lot that the Progress Party can join. But in some important areas where the Central Party in particular has promised to reverse – then I am talking about the police reform – none of what has been promised has ended. That's good, it's very positive, because the police reform was important, it was necessary, it was well-founded, and it's basically properly implemented – except on some points that we've also been critical to, because you haven't been clear enough to make sure there's more presence out in the districts. But when you read this platform, you see that the police reform needs to be evaluated. Yeah, I guess that's something that's always done in connection with important, big reforms. So all of the rhetoric that we've heard year in and year out is reduced to creating 20 new places of service. It does not appear to be anything but a total belly pad, if we recall how the former representative – now Minister of Finance – Trygly Battle Violence Vedum day in and day out told us how we had to reverse the police reform. But it's good that it doesn't happen. We need to work together to find good solutions to build Norwegian police in the years to come. What is regrettable, on the other hand, is that the government adds to a reversal of a reform that no one has asked for, except for a few very few who have a strong self-interest in it. It's about the court reform. It is an important and proper reform. I hope that the government before it possibly initiates a reversal of the judicial reform, at least listening to the employees, because the employees give clear feedback: that this is a reform that works, that it provides better opportunities to raise and resolve matters locally, and that one chooses to think practically and not ideologically.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1337	In the Hurdal platform, the government writes about how to ensure freedom for all kinds of families and how to reduce differences. How to ensure this, however, seems to me to be a mystery. Is it through increased diesel and petrol prices for parents who depend on a car in a hectic everyday life? Is it by taking from normal families with children the freedom of choice by going to fight against private kindergartens? Or is it by continuing to think that politicians and not the families themselves are best placed to make their own decisions about parental leave? Or is it perhaps by liquidating parts of the cash support rather than making demands? These are just some of the very many questions you can ask yourself. The little thing written about family policy seems to me to be a restriction of family freedom. They're common people, aren't they? I can at least today promise that in the years to come, the Progress Party will continue to fight for the families and to give them more freedom and opportunity to make choices in their own lives, and that we will make people's everyday lives simpler and not skipper. In both the platform and during the debate there has been a warm talk about freedom of expression. Festivities about the foundations of democracy are very nice, but I have to admit that I am uncertain about how the government will defend this when it storms at worst. In 2006 Vebjørn Selbeck stood in the middle of the Norwegian caricature battle. He felt the consequences of standing up for freedom of speech. Minister of Foreign Affairs Jonas Gahr Støre should have given Selbek his unreserved support, but also talked about the responsibility of opinion. Gahr Støre would calm the battle, but it is not useful to wave in debates about principles. In the last 15 years, when different actors have raised the issue of new blasphemy laws, with the wish for, for example, to forbid the caricatures of the prophet Mohammed, just hoped for the support of Gahr Støre. – I really hope that the government, once and for all, will decide that you will not wave in such fundamental questions again.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1349	Our task in this room is to adopt the laws of the country. As a spokesperson for a socialist party, it's always my job to ask how the laws we adopt in this room hit people with different class backgrounds, skin color or gender. It is my role to raise the voice when injustice is expressed, which when young people from the east of Oslo are punished three times as much for cannabis use as young people from the west of Oslo, even young people from the west of Oslo report twice as much cannabis use. Therefore, the SV will continue to fight against the decriminalisation of user doses of drugs, continuing the fight for a genuine drug reform. For too long there has been a faulty penalty line in this room, and let me be clear: SV has not given up the drug reform. We want to build alliances to get it done. It's our job to make sure that the justice system is available to everyone. A Bauta in the legal environment, Jan Fridthjof Bernt, has stated that the prosecution and legal apparatus are the social arenas where the inequalities are greatest in our country – a statement that was so too well illustrated by the Nav scandal, a case that had hardly gone as bad if some of them with a lot of money and advice to expensive lawyers had been exposed to a similar lack of legal certainty. In her last government budget, Erna Solberg showed that the blue government has downgraded legal certainty for those who need it the most. It is good that the income limit on free legal aid has increased for the first time since 2009, but it is still the case that many more fall outside the scheme after eight years of right-wing rule. I have great expectations that a new government that says they are occupied by ordinary people increases the income limit for free legal aid and comes to the Stortinget with proposals for new free legal aid law with visions on how to ensure access to the justice system for all. Legal aid measures need to be strengthened by increasing the salaries of public defenders and aid lawyers, but also by raising the level of voluntary legal assistance measures. It is shocking that the right side of the road out the door from the government offices cuts in the allocation of the voluntary legal aid measures. It merges into the range of unsocial cuts to finance tax havens for them at the top. There are many major challenges that need to be solved in the coming period. SV is not going to accept only fine party speeches about our state of law. We are clear that strengthening legal certainty in Norway requires both active policies and more money. We are pleased that the country has got a new government, now we expect it to deliver where the previous government failed, because it is about creating a society with legal certainty for the many, not for the few.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1360	Border trade has grown unnaturally in recent years, and now the pandemic has shown us what happens when border trade stops. The figures that have been estimated for the permanent withdrawal of border trade are enormous. The centre party is concerned that we should have an active industrial policy that is not managed by the market alone, but which gives a clear direction and ensures that Norwegian resources and value creation benefit the community. Therefore, I am pleased that the Hurdal platform states that the border trade issue should be reviewed in the light of the experience of the coronary apathy and other countries, such as Denmark. The Government will propose measures to reduce border trade and strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian business. This is important for Norwegian food and drink producers, who are offensive and in great development. This is important for the food industry, including in Westfold, where I come from. This is important for the retail trade. Daily food is what people trade most across the border. This is important for the Vinmonopole, over which the Centre Party hangs. The wine monopoly is a knowledgeable, offensive and sensible sales channel with a wide range of products. In the last half of the year, reduced border trade provided the basis for thousands of Norwegian jobs based on Norwegian raw materials. The Center Party will have more of that. But not only jobs — increased value creation, increased investment in industry and higher tax revenue are important for our welfare state. By creating and retaining more of the values in Norway, we ensure better services for all citizens. Norwegian food and drink production is the basis for a comprehensive Norwegian food chain. Here are great opportunities for development for all of us. Over the last few years, we have gained an increasing pride in our own food and drink production. Among other things, we have become world champions and won many prices in cheese production. Another example is the brewing and beverage industry, which with its 150 producers delivers over 3000 unique Norwegian beer varieties and has the world's healthiest 65 pst shower market. sugar-free shower. The centre party shall contribute to the preservation of more of the value creation in Norway. Then one of several measures is less border trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1375	The Hurdal platform and the government decide that the Norwegian petroleum industry should be developed, not phased out, and the government will facilitate a continued high level of activity on the Norwegian base. Since the Hurdal platform was presented, I have heard that several from the government explain this that the activity on the base can also be more than just oil and gas. This could be done, for example, by: be sea wind. I don't know, because the platform doesn't answer here. What it emits, on the other hand, is the framework conditions for the oil companies. They're going to find more, much more, even in new areas. So the enormously clear message from both the United Nations and the International Energy Agency that we have to stop looking for more fossil energy has made no impression on our new government. Although we have found more oil and gas than the climate already tolerates, it should be looked for more. How can the government find the link between it and supporting the objectives of the Paris Agreement? Nor is it credible that the petroleum part of the activity on the cap should be gradually replaced by more climate-friendly industries if we look at the future investments in the oil industry. Because thanks to the unfortunate oil tax package, there will be a sky-high level of investment on Norwegian pedestal in the coming years. This in itself will create real capacity problems in the Norwegian economy and industry. We have experienced this before during periods of high oil price and high investment in oil, and this has led to the disappearance of planned investments in sea wind and over investment in oil and gas. My question is quite simple, and I hope that we will be made clear by the government in the future – today, but also in the coming weeks: how will the government avoid this happening again? And not least: how will the government ensure that the necessary investment in new industries, which we must live on in the years to come, is realised? I'm excited about the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1386	The country has a new government, which has a new plan for what kind of Norway we want, a government that will listen to people, a government that has a clear plan to reduce differences both socially and geographically, a government that will take a settlement with the centralisation policy that you have had over the last eight years, and that will facilitate people to live, work and live good lives throughout Norway. I noticed that the representative Erna Solberg earlier today commented and thought that the Hurdal platform was wool and little concrete. Well, I think, in fact, that too many around Norway today have the significance, the new policy that the government has already announced that it will come to grips with when one sees the rapidly increasing electricity prices. There's nothing new that's come in the last few days. The outgoing government had the opportunity to notify and take concrete action. We have already notified and taken concrete action. I am also pleased that a majority in the European Parliament will ensure that all necessary measures relating to housing and social assistance are taken and that we will have to ensure that the charges in this area are reduced. However, for some around Norway, the current costs are even more difficult to bear, and the new government in its platform is putting concrete action into practice. In island communities around Norway – such as Hasvik, Loppa, Værøy and Røst – ferries should be free of charge. And for all around Norway who depend on aircraft on the short-haul network, one has to make sure that there is half a price on the flight routes. Then I register that representatives go to the pulpit and say there are few ambitions related to the police area. It is a good start to say that one now has to open several cannon offices, specifically twenty, after one has had the centralization of the Norwegian police. One shall also ensure that a person gives real content to the candidatures that one has around in Norway, as well as providing more police patrols. We're going to have a police officer present all over Norway. This is a platform that is not the end, but the start, in a new era, where we will make sure to play on teams of movements and organisations around Norway to reduce differences and make use of the whole of Norway. It'll be a pleasure to continue that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1399	Making sure that all children learn well at school is the most important thing we can do for a more fair society with less differences. After eight years of right-wing government, unfortunately, social differences are reproduced and reinforced in school results. That's not so nice. Under the right-hand government, the number of unqualified teachers in school has increased by over 40 pst. Half of the special instruction is given by unqualified persons. One in four who teaches in Norwegian school does not have teacher training, and the teaching shortage continues. Norwegian school suffers from teaching shortages. Too many teachers have escaped from school and gone to other occupations, many have been separated and too many have left school. Recruiting, retaining and educating several qualified teachers is therefore the most important thing for the new government. Providing enough qualified teachers in school is one of the most important investments we make for our kids. It is therefore gratifying that the new government is removing the separation of teachers who were trained before 2014. Many young people who dream of learning, who burn for either language, history or social science, have all the prerequisites for becoming good teachers for our children, but many today are stopped by the rigid demands of the right government for 4 in math, even if you want to become a Norwegian teacher. It's been more important for the right-hand government what you get into teacher education with than what you get out with. It is therefore gratifying that the new government replaces the input requirement of 4 in math with more fair and accurate recording requirements for teacher training. Then I have to say that it is time that we got a government that is occupied by skilled workers and professionals. For eight years, the professions have been down-priority, at a time when our country needs more skilled workers. For this reason, a Workers’ Party-Center Party government had to ensure that all qualified applicants in a professional field were given an apprenticeship and an opportunity to complete their education. 8 000 vocational students do not receive an apprenticeship every year. It's going to end now. It's time we set up a common school that gives everyone equal opportunities through good, qualified and motivated teachers. It's time for us to bet on the union worker. After eight years of right-wing government steering the school in the wrong direction, it's finally the teachers and the trade union workers' turn.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1412	We were many who were very excited about what the Hurdal platform was going to contain. I did not expect to agree with everything that was said there, but there were also points I could nodded with, points we agree with in cross-political terms, and points that are a continuation of the policy of the previous government. That's good. One thing that surprises me is how much distance there is between what's being said here in the hall and what's actually in the platform. One of the first Prime Minister Gahr Støre said when he presented the government statement on Monday: ‘The government will move power to ordinary people in all areas of society.’ It sounds nice, it's a very good principle, but what does the government really mean by that? To me, it's obvious that this means that people should make the most of their own lives, and that we need to have confidence that people can make the choice that's best for them. Unfortunately, the government doesn't seem to put the same thing into this as me, and at least it's not being added up to it in this platform. In the Right, we're most concerned with people, not the systems, and that we have a diversity. The system must adapt to those required to use the system. It is the patient we have to trust in in health care, the student we have to trust in at school, and the parents we have to trust to make choices that are best for them and their families. If the government is serious about moving power to ordinary people, why would it deprive students of the opportunity to choose which school to go to, the power to choose from an environment where they might have been bullied or have a bad network? If the government is serious about relocating power to ordinary people, why would it not allow people who are struggling with, for example. Anorexia, intoxication or mental health, choose the treatment that suits them, treatment that saves lives? If the government is serious about moving power to ordinary people, why would it say no that people who depend on user-driven personal assistant can choose the offer that best suits them, whether it's public, private or non-profit? Why would it make it more difficult for parents to choose the nursery facilities that are best for them, kindergartens they are very satisfied with? Unfortunately, this shows that the Hurdal platform and the government's rhetoric are simply not related, and that there is a great difference between words and actions. If the new government is to be serious about what Prime Minister Gahr Støre was acting as one of the very first when he presented the government statement on Monday, it must also have confidence that people know better than politicians what is best for them. If the government wants to move power to ordinary people, it must also show it in action, not just in words.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1429	The left considers that Norwegian school needs quality and diversity. The left has put a lot of work into giving children and young people in Norway a better school. We see the results of this: several qualified teachers, more who complete secondary education, more teachers per student in classrooms, more health care professionals and more and better digital tools than ever before in Norwegian school. The left provided 4,000 more qualified teachers in Norwegian school. We provided several teachers in each and every classroom in Norwegian elementary school through a teacher's norm. We made sure that 50 000 teachers have received an offer to continue their training. All of this has given children and young people in Norwegian schools teachers with more competence in the fields and with greater professional certainty. At the same time, our government supported the mental health of students with several measures, the most important being more health care professionals. Our watch included more than 500 new annual work with health care professionals at school and the local health services in the municipalities and county municipalities. We are also particularly pleased that many more are completing high school – that is one of the most important things – and they did so when we were in government. 79.6 pst. is a new record of the number of high school graduates. But all of this isn't enough, we'll do more and we'll give the students qualified teachers in every subject and class. In another emerging and grey Hurdal platform, the measures on education are relatively concrete, but unfortunately they point in the wrong direction – away from quality and away from diversity. What does this Central Party and Workers Party government start with? Yes, they shall not require students to be taught by qualified teachers. The requirement for teachers to have formal competence shall be removed. The quality has to go down. For the teacher students, the same trend is seen. More students than before actually complete the teacher's study after it became a requirement to have the grade 4 in the simplest mathematics from high school. Now the Workers' Party and the Centre Party must remove this requirement. The paradox is that the government platform for business and industry clearly clarifies that it is completely dependent on up-to-date and formalised competences. The Government Platform says that they will introduce a competence reform that provides up-to-date and formalised competences, or to quote the platform: ‘It is also one of our foremost advantages.’ Then it's a little strange that for this government formalized competence is important in industry and business, but not to teachers who are going to teach students, our children, in school. It is then to wonder why the students and the school are not considered to be the ‘our foremost advantage’ of this government, in this platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1450	When I hear representatives from the former government parties, one would almost think that they forgot that not many hours have passed since they themselves unpacked from the government offices. If things are so bad in Norwegian school, it is obvious that time has not been better spent in government. But I share the concern about the situation and not least about the importance of competence and having good teachers who have time for each one, because after two periods of a Right-led government, the situation is alarming. It's previously estimated that Norway could lack 5,800 teachers by 2040 if we don't do anything right now. It was at school start-up last year, 42 p.m. more unqualified teachers teaching at school than in 2013. The forgotten previous talk to mention. The Labour Party and the Center Party in government have completely different ambitions for Norwegian school. After eight years with a Right-Handed Government, immediate action is required – immediate action on which we deliver. We want to remove the separation of teachers, precisely because in our school there is room for skilled, experienced teachers who are there and make a difference out in Norwegian school, and not least when we know that the deficiency is real out there. It's a prerequisite that we have enough teachers if we're going to succeed in getting early and more practical learning in school. This is urgent, and the Workers' Party and the Center Party are delivering. We launch three grips here and now that we're about to recruit, train and keep more concrete teachers. Parents shall be sure that their children receive a good education. They're going to be sure that the children are seen, and then we're totally dependent on a school that has time for the individual, and that has time to invest in the children. It is an artificial distinction that is set up between a school that prioritises competence and a school that prioritises children who thrive when a teacher. We in the Workers' Party recognize that children are actually whole people. If they're to be able to learn, and if they're to be receptive to both mathematics, science and all the other subjects, they actually have to have it good in life as well. It's about we need to strengthen the school health service, we want physical activity in school, and we need to make sure that we gradually introduce a school meal. This is not in contrast to a school where you learn, this ensures that our children are receptive to learning, and acknowledges that children and young people are whole people who need to have a good framework for just being receptive to learning.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1465	My name is Irene Ojala, and I represent Finnmark for Patient Focus. The background to the patient’s focus on the Storting is that in Alta, Kautokeino and the districts of Finnmark, workers, women and men, young and old, have known a disgust over the last two decades of running hospitals. I represent Finnmark and am directly elected by the people. Overall, we are in the Patient Focus interdisciplinary and cross-political. We don't make any difference to people. Everyone can become ill, regardless of party, ethnicity, religion or professional background. We in the Patient Focus are going to work completely different from what the professional parties do. We're going to invite you to work together and share knowledge, because shared knowledge often gives you more good knowledge. We in the Patient Focus have borrowed voters from all parties, from the Red to the Advance Party. And we've been thinking that everyone should get their voters back. They have 18 months to show that they will meet the needs of sick people for all to be treated equally. Yesterday it was said that the time for overcoming communities is over. We think that's fine. It offers hope for good hospital solutions for young and elderly people, workers, pregnant and pregnant people, from and to the largest city in Finland, Alta, Kautokeino and the other districts of Finnmark. It gives hope that district doctors in the county will always be able to send patients to the appropriate treatment site. Because it is actually that a local hospital cannot have competence in all fields. Therefore, patients must always be properly closed, so that the fisherman returns to the fishing boat as a professional fisherman instead of hobby fish. Yesterday and today there has been a lot of talk about the climate crisis, and this afternoon we are going to vote on several proposals that are a consequence of the climate challenges. That's good. But the political actions that have been taken up to now are not in line with the words that politicians have used. I just mention that there are almost twice as many people living in Alta as in the hospital city of Hammerfest, and in a climate perspective it is more right that both cities, both Alta and Hammerfest, have hospitals, and that all patients in Finnmark are always sent to the right treatment site at the right time, and never the other way around – to hospitals that have to send the patients on. Norwegian health legislation does not discriminate against people, and it is the responsibility of the state to create security for sick people. That's one of the reasons why we have a strong state. It should not be a dream that vulnerable patients should be treated in the right hospital, at the right time and in the right place. It should actually be a matter of course in the country we live in. We in the Patient Focus aim to help it shine off the way Finnmark organizes hospitals, geriatrics and food supplies. The goal is for people throughout Health-Norway to say: «Look to Finnmark». Is it possible to get good and timely hospitals and food supplies in Finnmark? Then the jam is also possible elsewhere in the districts of Norway. Can I have a explanation of vote? It concerns proposal No. 19, from the Progress Party. Patient focus supports the proposal of the Progress Party with the following reasons: The health company Finnmarkssjukehuset will not build operating rooms with ultra-clean air. This means that the Finnmark Hospital is not based on the needs of the future, but is planning to build a new operating room that only increases the existing capacity of operations already carried out in Alta, thus excluding infection-sensitive surgery. This is also supported by the Finnmark Medical Association and by the superior Thoralf Enge in the Finnish Hospital, which says that there will be increased capacity... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1482	Thank you, the President would like to remind you that there should be a brief explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1487	I will also give a brief explanation of vote on behalf of the Right. But let me just start by saying a thousand thanks for a very exciting discussion and a political debate over two days with many who have been involved in new roles. Some are brand new on the Stortinget, some of them on the Stortinget, have become state councillors and vice versa. There has been a very good discussion that I feel has caused many of the disagreements, but also the points of agreement, which are between us. So to the explanation of vote from the Right: the right is going to vote for SV's amended proposal No. 6 on housing aid and social assistance due to electricity prices. As SV has amended its proposal to be very similar to the original Right Proposal No. 13 draws that right-hand proposal. And then the right is also going to vote for SV's proposal No. 8 on follow-up to the Jensen Committee. In addition, of course, we are voting in favour of the original proposals from the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1501	I think ‘happiness’ must be the most used word in this debate, and that is all reason to congratulate everyone who has been elected, and not least all those who were appointed as state councils a week ago. But what was only to be a happy day was one day with a very great seriousness after the cruel thing that happened on Kongsberg. We still don't know very much about what really hit us. I hope we get more answers in the next few weeks and months, but what we know is that the worst can happen. I took the floor again now to dwell a little on what I think has been the most important debate we have had this year, and it was the debate that lasted throughout the spring until the decade mark of the terrorist attack on July 22. Many voices have put forward how many in the Labour Party, and perhaps especially those of us who then came from the AUF, have felt to us alone over these ten years – that the political settlement of hatred never came, and that the recognition of what it did to us as people, with us as a party and with each one, has not been there. This year something was different. Several votes came up and said we had to talk more about this, especially among the youth parties on the right. They told me about the bad conscience and fear of contact, and said that this was a responsibility they were willing to take. I would say a thousand thanks to everyone who did it, and who said they wouldn't misunderstand on purpose. They realized that those who are not members of the Workers' Party have a responsibility not to leave the Workers' Party alone in this matter. We do not ask for sympathy; we ask that this be discussed more, that it must be discussed and mobilised in such a way that it cannot happen again. We promised «never more than 22 July», but then it happened again on 10 August two years ago. I am incredibly happy that the government platform will take the debate on July 22nd and will not let it turn into a bluff with the right words every summer. The platform determines that we should keep the visible tracks in the Høyblok, so that the conspiracy theories do not grow. We say that all students should learn about hatred and racism, and it's a goal that as many as possible get to Utøya or to the 22nd of July center. You don't have to go abroad to learn what hatred and extremism are. We're saying we're going to stop funding hateful and racist blogs, because we know they're dangerous. Perhaps most important of all: the Minister of Justice is now given the task of addressing the AUF's proposals on what in many ways will be a new July 22 Commission. The Gjørv Commission was incredibly important, it took the debate on preparedness and police, but we need a new commission that looks at how this can happen. What makes young people radicalize, and how can we avoid it happening again? They're talking about solo terrorists, but they're not alone – they have each other. I look forward to the incredibly important work that the Commission is going to do. I hope it gets broad support here in Stortinget, and that we can all follow up on that work, so we can justifiably say: Never again July 22nd, and never again August 10th.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1518	We're approaching the end of the debate, so I'm going to make some explanations of vote on the Left's side. We will vote in favour of SV's amended proposal No. 6, on an increase in housing aid and social assistance with a background in high electricity prices. We will also vote in favour of proposal No. 8, from SV, on a notice to the Stortinget on urban living conditions, based on the Jensen Committee's recommendations. We shall vote in favour of proposal No. 9, from SV, on proposals for penalties to address harassment in fisheries. The left will vote in favour of proposal No. 10, from SV, to maintain Andøya Air Station as the base for maritime surveillance aeroplanes. We shall continue to vote in favour of proposal No. 11, from the SV, to follow up the initiative of the EU Commission not to allow the further extraction of fossil energy resources in the Arctic. The left will vote in favour of proposal No. 14, from the Right, to present the announced climate plan – the government has now announced a new climate plan – during February 2022. The point is that we have just implemented and addressed a climate plan in Stortinget. If it's going to change, it's the one that needs to be improved, and it can't possibly take a very long time. Otherwise you have to start again, and it's a completely different process. We have an offensive climate plan, it is the one that needs to be improved. Furthermore, we shall vote in favour of proposal No. 15, from the Right, on a neutral value added tax in health enterprises. The left will vote in favour of proposal No. 18, from the Advance Party, on a full investigation of Ullevål Hospital as an extension alternative to Gaustad. Prime Minister Jonas Gahr Støre said in his statement that the time for overrun of communities is over. In order for this to be serious, it has to be said that local communities should not be overrun even if the City Council in Oslo opposes the plans for Gaustad and the huge hospital planned there, otherwise these will be just empty words. The left will vote in favour of proposal No. 19, from the Progress Party, on the establishment of an ultra-clean operating room at Klinik Alta. There, funds have been allocated in the year's budget, and it has to be followed up. The left will also vote in favour of proposal No. 28, from the Greens/Greens/European Environment Party, on a stronger night and night offer in Norway and abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1531	A small curiosity: due to political pressure, the oil fund was sold out by the manufacturer Lockheed Martin in 2005. The oil fund owned 0.38 pst. by Lockheed Martin, and the rate was $38. With today's rate, the return would finance all F-35 aircraft. We rule out investment because of ethics, but we deal with unethical corporations because of needs, so it looks like different governments, all except the Progress Party, live by the principle that morality is good, but that double morality is twice as good. The new strategic concept of NATO shall be adopted at the Madrid Summit of Heads of State or Government next year. They need to expand the concept, that is the idea, and so have the Americans. It's going to be some kind of world police force. You have to expand with climate. It is important to expand with national democracy within the countries, i.e. that NATO should operate within the countries, and that it should also be out of area missions, i.e. outside NATO. Such a strategy solves absolutely nothing, and it provokes very many. We're going to discuss the lessons from Afghanistan. There, NATO has permanently lost its credibility, unfortunately, and it is important to correct it. The original objective of NATO is to guarantee the freedom and security of Member States by political and military means. It should continue to be. With regard to the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons, the Government has wanted to attend the meeting of the States Parties on it. It has produced strong reactions. As the only NATO country, ‘Jonas-Hurdal’ wants to challenge ‘NATO-Jens’. We think that's a very bad idea. It creates sparkles in NATO, completely unnecessary sparkles, and so when we express our need for NATO, we provoke NATO back. It's a completely unnecessary provocation. It doesn't solve anything, and it doesn't make the world safer at all. In the Hurdal platform, the United States is not mentioned in a single word, but Germany, the United Kingdom, the Nordic countries and other related countries are mentioned, including many other countries. Then there won't be many other countries left. But a country that is not mentioned, which should perhaps have been mentioned, is France. As far as France is concerned, we are involved in military operations in Mali, but France is not a related country with which we should cooperate, according to the government platform. There is one sentence on China, but nothing about trade with China even though we have been negotiating a free trade agreement with China since 2008 – not a word about China. There are no words about data deliveries from China, and that might be a little weird. I hope the government will come back and write something about it. Then there are UN operations, the UN nuclear treaty, the UN Security Council, the UN Convention on Refugees, the UN's sanctioned negotiations in the Middle East, the UN's multilateral order, the UN's sustainability objectives and the fear of earth's climate change. It is the UN all the way, and we are to be deprived of the national authority – voluntarily – and give it to the UN. It's a completely unnecessary situation we've been in. It's on the Hurdal platform, even if the prime minister shakes his head.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1546	So the big government is a good week old. Anyway, the Solberg government has been sitting for eight years, and you have to bear, even today, that you're talking about the eight years. Because I have to say that it is a little surprising to hear all this complaint – I don't know if it is a parliamentary word – that has been on these days from the right. The Hurdal platform is full of concrete policies. It shows a new course for community, smaller differences, where we see the whole country. One must almost be a politician from the right about one looking at it as flakes and not as obligating words. It's kind of the same thing as not fully understanding who are common people in this country. To the representative Wilhelmsen Trøen: I stand for my criticism, which I came with yesterday, which has been in force in the last few years in the field of mental health. You'd like to talk about how well you've done in health, but I choose to put my trust in the Riksrevision, which before the summer came with a crushing sentence on the results of the former government in mental health. So there's a long way between life and learning. They have talked a lot about mental health protection and have high ambitions, but the Riksrevision has thus established the realities. Many people with mental illness have to wait a long time for health care. What kind of health care you get depends on where you live, and some people are actually at risk of not getting help when they need it, and we don't know enough about the treatment given, actually works. This is the word of the National Audit Office. Those who struggle with both mental and drug abuse do not get enough help, either in the municipalities or in the specialist health service. They are also clear that it is very critical that the previous government has not been able to achieve the goal that is called the Golden Rule since 2013 – not one year since 2013. Then you have to stand here and be very satisfied with the results, but I'm glad it's a new time, that it's a new course, a new government that has great ambitions. We're going to help, we're going to set up, we're going to have a powerful boost, and we have to, because mental health care is vital. There are too many who are in line, because many do not receive help, and we have too little means of prevention. This government is going to deliver, and we're going to do that with actual policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1555	This declaration debate is like the opposition debate, but I wonder where the opposition is going. There's no clear oppositional voice in the staging room anymore. Is that an expression of contentment? Most likely it is – that it is a government statement made on the table, which has a very new, clear direction for Norway. That must be a clear statement. For where are the parliamentary leaders of the Right, the Advance Party, the Left, the Central Party? It may not be interesting to conclude the parliamentary round in this debate. When former Prime Minister stands in this room and says that the government statement is wool, and that's all she has to say, it's worth noting that the government statement is not wool. It is a very clear statement, which takes Norway in a completely different direction from that of the right-wing parties for eight years. It is a very clear statement where we want – and will be able – to reduce the differences between people and among people, both geographically and between people directly. It is a statement to create new jobs, new activity, attention to business and what business needs to grow — very clearly. There has never been a clearer explanation of what business needs are, at least as long as I have been involved in debates in this room. It is also about safer jobs and what the labour market is supposed to represent, and not least a stronger welfare country. After all, the government statement is permeated by how we want to develop it. It is also about cutting greenhouse gas emissions, with new instruments and clearer targets, and at the same time how to use the fantastic opportunities that exist in this country. That is a good statement for the country. It is absolutely necessary that we now have a new policy direction, which actually sees people and, not least, invites people to continue policy development, so that one can take into account the opinions that are out there. I sincerely hope that, in stark contrast to the previous government, we are those who invite in and listen to professional movements and others who participate in social development. We are totally dependent on that to continue to have a country with small differences and good development.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1566	‘Protection — Will to Stand By’ is the title of the Defence’s long-term plan, adopted by the previous magnificence and presented by the previous government. That's a good title. Unfortunately, in recent years defence policy has not strengthened either defence or preparedness. There has been a long way between word and action. Now we've got a government shift and a new multiple. Will it also be reflected in the defence policy, or will we continue to undermine Norwegian sovereignty and our ability and will to defend our democracy against external threats and pressures? I hope the first. We in SV are ready to form multiple figures with the government to fulfill what is stated in the Hurdal Platform that ‘The defence shall assert Norwegian sovereignty and safeguard national interests.’ We also stretched out a hand here today to take a step in that direction. SV has put forward a proposal that ‘The government asks to keep Andeya flight station as the base for our maritime surveillance planes.’ We know that this is – or at least has been – a very important matter for one of the two government parties. Why is Andøya Air Station so important? You can only take a look at the map and the topography. Andøya is perfect for surveillance flights. On Andy Island they can fly easily and land without any major problems. Andøya also has a unique strategic location. Monitoring our marine areas is no less important in a more focused security policy situation, with greater interest from different sources both in the sea and in the shipping industry past us. The question of Andøya Air Station puts the basic choices in our foreign and defence policy at the forefront. It's not primarily a district policy matter, it's a matter of defence, sovereignty and trust in professionals. The military professional advice is not to be misunderstood. The decision to move the base, on the other hand, has been driven from a political standpoint and with a desire to save money, a wish that already turns out to be quite scarce. That's why it's time to think about, and it's not too late to turn around. The move process is only in progress and the infrastructure of Andeya is intact.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1583	It is not a bold claim that Andøya airstation will be used for a long time in the future anyway. The question is what and who. That's why we're back to my starting point: Should we take responsibility for our own security, or should we leave it to others and make us increasingly dependent on actors who don't have the same interests as us? A new plurality and a new government may dare take the Honorary Order to seriously assert Norwegian sovereignty.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1586	I would first like to congratulate all those who deserve congratulations. It's everyone who's been elected to the Stortinget, everyone who's become a state councillor, and everyone who's been re-elected to the positions they've had in the past – so I have a congratulations for everyone. Then I have noticed and will congratulate the Workers' Party on the expression 'common people'. The expression "people most" was busy, but it's actually exactly the same. So that the Workers' Party has chosen the same group that the Advance Party has been doing for very many years, I think it deserves honor. But they don't deserve the honor of following up on this. If we, for example, look at something very many common people, people most, are concerned about, it's fuel prices. There has also been a topic in this debate yesterday and today. Last fall when the Stortinget processed the State budget and imposed the fuel charges, the prices of petrol and diesel were from 14 to 16 kroner per litre. People were aware of this when they set the fuel charges at about 5 kroner per litre. So there's a part that's changed this picture. That's what ordinary people and people most have discovered. Fuel costs 18 and 19 kroner per litre for petrol and diesel. What's happened? Well, the oil price has gone from $40 per barrel to today $84 per barrel. The government is sweeping into 70-80 billion. kr more than calculated in 2021. Many thought that the state was the most common people. But what have most and most ordinary people got from the fact that the state has received 70 billion. kr or more in additional, unexpected revenues – just like a lottery win? So they're going to pay $3 more per litre. Then you talk about doing something fast. There is no problem for this House to vote in favour of proposal No. 16th@item: inlistbox Then, on 1 November, the fuel prices could drop by 3 kroner and 75 cents, because the Progress Party proposes to reduce the fees by 3 kroner per litre. When the VAT is at the top of it, there is 3 kroner and 75 cents lower fuel tax per litre. I hope that those who speak for ordinary people do that too when they're going to vote for proposal no. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1599	A long debate is soon to come to an end, and it has been interesting to hear many good speeches here today, many new representatives who have taken the floor for the first time. It has also been interesting to follow the opposition's remarks and posts from this room. The criticism from the opposition has been quite explosive. Some are concerned that we are going to change some of the so-called reforms of the Solberg government. Yeah, there's a reason to do that. There is reason to look at a near-police reform that had to become a police reform because nothing had been done about the word ‘near’, and there is reason to look at the county municipalities that have been combined with coercion. Force decisions are never good, and therefore it makes sense to allow those affected by the coercive decision to believe something about it. It has been interesting to hear that the Hurdal platform is too little concrete. Then I thought yesterday that I would see a little bit about what happened when you were at Sundvolden eight years ago. What were the big issues that were debated after Sundvolden? Well, there was sigway and poker and liquorice pipes, but there was also a weakening of employees' rights, tax cuts and privatisation. But now Erna Solberg's governments and Sundvolden and Jeleya and Granavolden are history. We have presented a government statement that is good. It is concrete, primarily on policies that will mean something to ordinary people and the life they live, and a policy that will benefit ordinary people, such as securing people's entire, permanent jobs to give people a living and security in everyday life, making kindergartens more reasonable, ensuring more qualified teachers and solving the fixed crisis. That's how we can create more justice between people and parts of the country. We're going to have a redistributive tax policy that gives people with ordinary incomes more in the wallet, and makes sure that those who are the richest contribute more to the community. There have been many proposals here today. We think we have a lot of good proposals in the Hurdal platform, which we are going to implement. That is why we are not going to vote for many of them, but I am going to give an explanation of vote on proposal No. 9, which applies to penalties to address harassment in fisheries. Of course, it is a proposal that is important. I have assured myself that the Council of State has worked on this every day since he entered the offices, and he has taken this seriously, has meetings and works on it. That is why we see no reason to vote in favour of this proposal today, since work is under way. Then we are pleased that the majority now supports whether it has been said by both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance to do something about power prices. That is why we are going to vote in favour of revised proposal No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1610	There's been an interesting debate, and this kind of debate is also a very good opportunity to see a little bit of the breadth of what's occupying the staging representatives in this room. The debate also shows that the opposition parties have highlighted their primary positions. It's also natural, but it also means that at the same time it becomes very visible that the distance between the former government parties has become much larger than what it was. The attacks on the new government have been mildly said very bursting. The Progress Party says that the Center Party has fallen down for the Workers' Party, while the Left says that the Workers' Party has fallen down for the Center Party. So some line when it comes to who's been kneeling for who, it hasn't exactly been, and there's no line from the opposition when it comes to the attacks on the new government. The Hurdal platform has become a good combination of Labour Party and Center Party policies, with many great ambitions for the years ahead. I want to mention just a few areas that have emerged in the course of the debate, where the government has been strongly criticized. One relates to the issue of judicial reform and to what is stated in the Hurdals platform on judicial reform. There, right-wing speakers are desperately trying to hold on to a structural reform of the courts that they can not even take responsibility for, but outsourced to the court administration. And then the representative Per-Willy Amundsen says that the new government is not listening. Well, that's exactly what the new government is going to do, it's going to listen – to the employees, to the municipalities where the district courts are, and to the judges. If everyone agrees that the new arrangement is good, it will not be changed. But if it is such that there are municipalities that are dissatisfied with the fact that they lose a local management and seasmanship in their property rights, and if there are employees who are dissatisfied with it, then they will have the opportunity to try that case again. We believe it is important to listen locally, and the implementation of this judicial reform has been a poor example of the implementation of public reform. So it's possible that it's good in Agder, but I'm from Trøndelag, and in Trøndelag, there are many who are very dissatisfied with this reform. The right has also attacked the government for climate policy and pointed out that there are no measures in the Hurdal platform. I would like to remind the Right that they have concluded an agreement with agriculture that it will cut 4.4 million tonnes of CO 2, and there is not one single measure to implement that policy – not one single measure – while in the Hurdals platform there are entirely concrete measures to establish a Bionova that can be the Enova of agriculture and cut agricultural emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1629	There has been a good debate. I think most people are happy to get started properly with this political harvest. It's also nice to see so many new ones on the platform. But unfortunately, we haven't become much wiser in this debate. Let's take the petrol and diesel charges. After all, as I have pointed out several times, the Minister for Climate and Environment has been in the Political Quarter and has said that there will be an increase. The representative, Aasrud, was content to say that there should be a large increase. The Prime Minister said that the representative of Aasrud is wise, and otherwise he read out what is in the statement, which also does not make us wise. Nor has the centre party been able to guarantee that there will be no increased fees, either the representative Arnstad or the new finance minister. So we're going to have to wait and see what's going on in the supplementary proposition. The size has a chance here today to reduce the fees as of 1 November. There are concrete proposals on the table about it, but there is little chance of using the opportunity to meet ordinary people by voting for it. Then it's the IS women. Nor do we get any guarantee here that the new government is setting foot down to pick these people up to Norway – people who have supported one of the bestial regimes we've seen for a long, long time. When it comes to electricity, we've been getting the clean stuff over the course of these days, and it's also going to be voted over here in the Stortinget, that we're going to get an increase in the housing stock, and we're going to raise the support for those who receive it. But it's just 4.4 pst. of households in Norway receiving housing aid. I guess we should really be very happy about that, but that means that for over 95 pst. by the population -- very many of them will probably be ordinary people -- it won't mean any of the world's things. The Progress Party has also given Stortinget the opportunity to take action here and now by removing the VAT, which is 25 pst. of the bill, and where the state once again insists extra much when the prices are high. But neither does it look like we're getting a majority. Then it's the electricity tax, which the government has to come back to, but which is small money compared to the VAT. The Progress Party will support the proposal for housing aid, and the government will come back quickly with it. Then we will also support proposal No. 15 from the right. That is what we want to support. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1646	The new and strengthened SV Group has been involved in the debate and clearly shows what kind of line we are going to be on in the new bigotry. We will seek results for those who have voted for us, for justice and the environment. That's why I'm glad that the Storting will join our proposal that those who receive housing support and social assistance get help with the power bill, and that will happen. In any case, it shall be proposed, which may provide security before the next electricity bill is due by the end of October. That's a good signal, folks, because it's going to provide security. It is a signal that gives security to those who feel they need to turn off the heat because the fear of the power bill is great. We're not supposed to be a country where people have to freeze in fear of large power bills. However, it is important to remember that over the last few years, there have been a number of unsocial cuts such as: has meant that fewer than before receive housing support. Therefore, I hope that the government in its further work on measures will also look at how to reach out to the many people who are very in need financially, but who are still not covered by the housing support scheme. It is necessary to have arrangements that enable them to apply too, and it is necessary to have permanent arrangements, so that no accumulation or government should resort to ad hoc solutions each time we get a large price increase. The government that went off, put down a sample that would look at this, but they're going to come up with their attitude to spring, and it's a little late when we know that the big problem for many is going to be through this winter. SV's starting point for this magnification period is that we're part of a majority against the government that went off. We have contributed to a new government, but at the same time we are an opposition party without bonds. That means we're going to meet the new government constructively and critically, and what we're going to be most concerned about is what we've been most concerned about: getting something done with Difference Norway and showing action in the face of the climate and natural crisis. We really need change in a crucial time, and that's what this big business is to deliver, after a choice where so many have asked for it – really change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1655	It's been said a lot of trickery, not only from the eight-double size group of Red's, but also from several others in the hall. Fortunately, common sense is evenly distributed in society and sometimes in the main hall. I want to highlight two things. The first is what Rigmor Aasrud of the Workers' Party said, that the fight against Difference Norway is among the most important struggles we can have to preserve the social model that we have. It's almost as if we were going to say it ourselves in Red. But to achieve that, we also need a less capitalist social model, where workers gain more power at work and can also strengthen the welfare state. So state councillor Tonje Brenna said that we have to make sure that kindergartens are not driven by profit, but by a desire to run good kindergartens, and that's quite right. Here, the government's promises cannot be made with a childcare allowance of 2.0 with the citizens. Here the left side of the Stortinget must ensure a new direction. So one explanation of vote: we in Red are both optimistic, constructive and impatient, so we are therefore voting in favour of most of the proposals, but against the proposals No. 15-17, proposals Nos. 19–20 and Nos. 24 - 26. Red is to cut unsocial charges, but we're not to spend billions on giving as much – or more – to those with luxury consumption, who use precious power to warm up the cab drive, or Jacuzien, than to those who have bad advice, who have poorly isolated homes, and where it really blinks in the account when the power bill comes. That is why the proposal is no. 20 wrong priorities. But we are in favour of proposal No. 21 on reductions in electricity taxes and VAT in the budget, so that fair tax cuts can be ensured. We are therefore in favour of all the proposals that have been put forward for immediate action, which were put to the fore by Mr Red with our proposals last week. Finally, in the last period, the Centre Party, SV, MDG and Left voted first for the Red's proposal on registration obligations for state councils and State secretaries who have worked for industrial interests. Then supported the Workers' Party, the Center Party, the MDG and the Red SV proposal about the same, while the Left jumped off in the last turn. This must mean that there is now a large number of large sizes to get this in place. So I hope to support proposal No. 5 from Red to strengthen popular governance against the PR industry and lobbying forces and at the same time to ensure confidence in politics and in the people elected.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1668	The undersigned will also take the opportunity to thank the debate. There's been a lot of good posts, which makes me think we can see four bright years ahead in time here in this room. On the left, we have clearly said that during this period we intend to vote in favour of what we are in favour of, and vote against what we are against, and that also means that a good part of the proposals that have been submitted here today, we will also vote in favour. Nevertheless, the individual proposals that we may agree with, but which we believe it should be more worked on, which we do not support here today. But I want to draw out, among other things. that we are voting in favour of an investigation into a full-scale hospital at Ullevål. We are voting in favour of the proposals of the Advance Party on Alta Hospital, and we are also voting in favour of retaining Andøya Air Station. So I would like to say thank you to SV for raising the proposal regarding living conditions in cities. I am happy to see that the cooperation party for the government, SV, sees that this is a point in the government's platform that can be reinforced. It's very nice that there's one thing that's being lifted up here from the Storting after a pandemic where the populace areas in our country are the hardest hit, where we know that those who have it hard from before are the ones that have been hit the hardest. I think it's important that we raise this particular group, and that that group is prioritised in the years that come. For the Left, we have wanted to use this debate to drill a little bit more into what lies in the government platform, especially in terms of climate, and in terms of nature. At least in what I have been able to register from posts, I have not heard one representative of the government parties who has mentioned a new climate action in this debate. So you've kept, or actually intensified, the level of ambition of climate change by 2030, but you haven't mentioned a new climate action. On the contrary, there are several formulations in the government platform that weaken the climate measures we already have. So we have a government platform that says it's going to be cheaper to drive petrol and diesel cars, which makes it more expensive to buy an electric car and makes it cheaper to fly. This doesn't go up. That is why I had actually expected that in this debate we also got some – at least some sprouts of new measures that can help us to achieve the ambitious goals that we fortunately share. There has also been very little focus on nature and on protection. The natural crisis is just as important as the climate crisis, and I expect this to be a priority issue for the government in the future, and there is no doubt that the Left has intended to be a constructive party to that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1681	The next speaker is Kristoffer Robin Haug. The President had initially stated that it was the parliamentary leaders and possibly the Prime Minister who should have made a final statement, but Haug has asked for the floor and gets it, of course, because he has only had one speech earlier in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1686	Thank you so much for the good discussions these last two days. I give a brief explanation of vote by the Greens: There are many excellent proposals that we are going to support. However, we believe that even if the proposals are No. 3 and 4 raise the need to listen to local self-government, are the counties and municipalities well able to address this for themselves and do not need override from the Stortinget to raise such issues. Proposal No. 5 we will raise as particularly important – we are pleased that it has been lifted in the fight against transparency – and also the SV proposal on living conditions in big cities. As regards proposal No: 14, we understand those who think it would be challenging to put in place the climate plan so quickly, but we agree with the Right that this is a work that is urgent, and we therefore support that proposal. We also support the proposal No. 18 and 19, from the Progress Party, about Ullevål Hospital and Clinic Alta, although we recall that a document 8 has already been submitted on just Ullevål Hospital. With regard to proposals Nos. 20 and 21, we believe that both of these are covered even better in other proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1703	I drew myself to also give an explanation of vote, but I can't push myself to comment on a couple of things anyway. I would like to stress quite strongly after today's debate, when we are now debating this platform, that the Central Party is pleased that we have received a Central Party and Workers' Party government. That's what the Center Party wanted. We've got that, and we're looking very positive for the time being. We believe that the platform on which we are based and the statement we have addressed today is very good. So to the representative, Listhaug, who is asking for guarantees, and who has not fully understood – I think – what is on the platform: what is on the platform is not very difficult to understand. So I think the representative should read it a few more times, and then the representative will be informed as soon as possible. But it is also a bit strange to hear the representative Listhaug say what she is saying today about the fuel tax and other taxes, because in the seven years of the Progress Party put in government, they were a party that kept contributing to increased taxes for people most, not least in terms of electricity – and fuel. With regard to the representative Melby, she may not have listened to what has been said in the debate. I was up just six minutes ago and just mentioned a new concrete action in climate policy, namely Bionova, which can help cut some of the 4.4 million tonnes of CO 2 to be cut in Norwegian agriculture, and where the previous government has not lifted a finger to get to measures that can contribute to climate change in agriculture. So that's one example of what Melby wanted, and now she's got that example. There are many more of them on the Hurdal platform. I also want to mention that I think it earlier today was a rather strange attack by the representative Raja on education, because it is not that the previous government has invested in competent teachers while a future government will not do so. The major challenge in Norway today is the lack of teachers, the lack of qualified teachers, and it has done so over several years. It is not then that the separation of general teachers is a good way to help more teachers stand in the profession anymore. Nor is it the case that motivated students who do not have the grade 4 in mathematics — but who may have good grades for the rest — do not get into teacher training is a good way to recruit teachers. There, the Hurdal platform has made clear changes to the recruitment of teachers, as well as to increasing the skills and qualifications of Norwegian schools. So to a explanation of vote: the centre party is going to vote in favour of proposal No. 8 from SV. We are not going to vote in favour of the other proposals, but at the same time we believe that when the government makes a proposal on housing aid and social assistance to those who are exposed to electricity, it must be a matter that is dealt with quickly by the Storting so that action can be taken quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1721	I understand that the representative Arnstad thinks the undersigned is a bit thin. But I think I have to say that there's probably more than me in this room who have a problem understanding what this government really wants. The problem is that it has not been clarified here either. I've learned to read, quite many years ago, and I've also read the platform, but it's still unclear what you actually want to do. As far as taxes and taxes are concerned, the fact that the Progress Party can at least put on the table is that we have helped to reduce taxes and taxes by 37 billion. kr in the eight years we had influence. Over the last few years, we have reduced fees by many, many billion dollars, among other things. on goods subject to frontier trade, which we are excited about what the new government will do with. For us, it was about saving jobs, creating jobs in Norway and keeping income in Norway instead of sending them across the border. Now it's the turn of the Center Party to show the voters what they actually get. I'm aware that they're probably going to talk a lot about the Progress Party in the future too, but now there's going to be an additional proposition that we're going to look at, and that's going to say something about what you want to do. Then you also have to settle with SV, and then we'll have a discussion about how we're going to be in the future. This is how the Senterpartiet has the opportunity here today to both remove the VAT, to remove the electricity charge, to reduce the taxes on petrol and diesel. You have all the possibilities to fulfill, and maybe even overreach, what you've promised the voters. But it remains to be seen. At least I'm happy to see what's coming. We have said that we will be constructive in what we agree with. We're voting for what we're for, what we're against, and then we'll see when the budget's going to be settled.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1734	I will first be allowed to comment that it is not such that we do not have measures related to the farmers and cut CO 2 emissions. The whole farm layout is about looking at the cost factors and devices associated with it. So the whole agricultural settlement system covers the question of what kind of measures it should be. That is why we were angry at our offer to the farmers in the direction that it would stimulate lower climate emissions. There is no other industry in Norway that gets its costs calculated and compensated on all sides in the way that farmers do, and then gets new policies. That's really not why I thought I should say something. That's because this debate has been almost chemically free to discuss what we're still up to, which is a pandemic. Although we have reopened Norway, there is every likelihood that we are currently facing a new crop increase in infection. Vaccination rates at the second dose for some groups, and also at the first dose for the last remaining groups, seem at the moment to be much slower than we hoped it would be. We also see that the deposits are increasing again, and we see from a very large number of other countries in Europe that there is now a boom in the pandemic. I will therefore be allowed to ask the Prime Minister if he has any plans for how the government will deal with the pandemic in the future, and if they will come back to the Stortinge to inform us about this situation, if they have at all a look at the situation that could develop. We've never said that we're done with the pandemic in Norway. The danger is that we will return to both local action and perhaps grouped area action. When I was prime minister, I had a desire to inform the Stortinget. I was told that the Storting would be briefed every time I asked to come. Now I have allowed myself to ask if the Prime Minister has a strategy for how he will proceed with the pandemic, and whether he will return to the Great Britain with an orientation on government policy in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1748	I got hurt to say proposal no. 8, but I meant maritime proposal No. 6, just so it's listed. So just a few brief comments: the last round of the representative listhaug shows that she probably understands more of what is on the Hurdal platform than what she has expressed in the debate so far, and that is good. The central party does not go into the government to increase the fees, as the Energy Minister of the Progress Party did when they joined the government in 2013. Then I noticed that the representative Listhaug is very careful to say that they have given a single tax and tax bill, and I understand that she uses those words, ‘total tax and tax relief’, because during the years the Progress Party put in government, it was such that the tax rate that was settled with tax increases. There is one of the problems related to the charging policy pursued by the Right and the Advance Party. As far as agricultural climate action is concerned, it is my sincere belief that farming is primarily about the income development of farmers, for the many, many thousands of sea-going farmers who are in agriculture. That means that there is no climate action in itself, but establishing Bionova would be. It would be a new and sensible climate action to meet agricultural climate requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1757	I can assure the representative Arnstad that proposal No. 8 is very good, so it's safe to vote for it too. Also in SV we do so that we vote in favour of what we for, originally enough, and that also means that we are going to vote in favour of some individual proposals from both the Red Party, the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Green Party. But it was really the representative Listhaug who made me redraw, because this fear of cooperation with SV has been a repetition, also in the election campaign of the Progress Party, and it has been important to express horrors about what might happen to the nation if SV had decisive influence. But then it might be a point to remember the following: In the years of the Progress Party led Norway, there was a disparity policy in which the billionaires got everything they asked, where I think many of those who had expected large tax credits were very disappointed, and where it was every year that SV promoted an alternative state budget where the large majority of taxpayers came out with a lower overall tax and tax level than the Progress Party was in government. I'm just saying that, because it may well happen that many will discover during this period that where the Progress Party spent eight years using its power to get the differences up, to be with and rig the tax system for the rich, we're going to systematically use all the power we get, to bring down the differences, so we're going to get a more fair society and fight Difference Norway. Then I fully agree with Marit Arnstad that Stortinget must be prepared to deal with a government proposal related to electricity costs very quickly. Now the Stortinget, by supporting SV's proposal, sets a quick deadline for the government, but we know that it is possible, because it has been done before, and it will provide security that the Stortinget will give that signal today. Then, of course, the parties of the Storting must also be ready to deal with it as quickly as possible when it comes, so that people also get the money as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1769	It can be considered that the representative Arnstad has not received the tax reductions that have been put in place in recent years, both in the revised national budget and in the ordinary budget. But if we're going to go into history first, it might be worth mentioning that when the Senterpartie last ruled, they were concerned that Norway would become Europe's battery. Away Moe, who was then Minister of Oil and Energy, agreed with both the United Kingdom and Germany to build foreign tables. But to be completely honest, I think those who are now afraid that they can't afford to pay their electricity bills are giving the cat in it. That's not what matters to them. What they want to know is what this hall is going to do for them, so they have the money to pay that bill, and it's unfortunately here that you fail by not voting to reduce VAT and remove the electricity charge. Nor will it help for the power price in the future, as this government and the Senter party will, to continue this massive electrification of the socket, where we take precious renewable power and send from the mainland and out onto the oil platforms. It's pure symbolism, which costs up to 50 unimaginable billions of dollars, and that's not going to mean anything the world's thing for the climate in the world. But so mind-blowing we've become that we're most concerned about looking at our little duck pond instead of looking at the world's climate, that we actually don't have our own atmosphere. If the representative Arnstad was concerned about thinking in the long term, you should now stop the madness that is going on electrifying Norwegian pedestal. So to the representative Lighthouse, who says we're worried. Yeah, we are, actually. We're concerned that a party that wants to wind up Norwegian oil industry, the most important industry in this country, gets influence and power. I am afraid that this will be used as a negotiating card in the discussions on the State budget. And if there's something that will affect ordinary people, it's at least that if this industry gets a shot at the bow, politicians with power that actually manage to reduce the activity. The other thing I'm worried about, for ordinary people, is fees, because we know that SV has been both creative and very eager to charge the inhabitants, and as we know, most of the fees are for those who have the least, because it's those who have the challenges of paying.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1782	I would also like to thank you for the debate. There have been two interesting days, well-lit. I have the impression that the Hurdal platform is setting a new agenda; there are slightly different approaches to it. The opposition has marked this from different angles, and we'll take it with us as we continue to work. This government will look for solutions in Stortinget. It's in the nature of the matter. It is a pleasure to note that the Minister of Finance and I were out with a few hours ago – that we need measures to remedy the situation for those who are in a difficult situation due to increased electricity costs – it looks like a broad majority in the Grand Duchy is joining. I can confirm that the government will act very soon in this regard. When the government acts, it is then essential that the Storting again act when the matter comes to Stortingen, so that this can mean something to people quickly. The representative of Solberg raised concerns about the development of the pandemic and wanted an orientation from the Prime Minister of Stortinget. I must then think that something must have happened since last Thursday to today, which gives cause for concern. I can share with this room that a collective government was allowed to update the health authorities on Saturday, in a thorough explanation. The impression is that what you're following carefully is insertion. That's where we can measure the load in the country. The infection rates are one thing; the insertions are something else. There are no messages to us that indicate that there is deep concern. We're following the situation. We're busy trying to get people to vaccinate first and second times and keep the pressure up. Here the municipalities play a central role, and we're going to follow it very closely. Should there be a need to inform the Storting about measures, funds, etc., we will, of course, do so. It is also important to be able to reach the population with communication on the matter. It can be done by wide press conferences, as it has now been done, and it can also be done by other types of information, such as when people live where they live. Especially in the case of health professionals, I think it is important to reach them with thorough information, so that they are safe in the help they provide, that they are vaccinated, and that they have access to vaccines. I can confirm to Stortinget that we are following the situation closely and are being carefully updated – both the Minister of Health and I – and that we are going to take action. I would also like to say that there is a government that has gone off, that would liquidate all the measures that would go on social rights for people who were out of work – because the crisis seemed to be over. We are committed to keeping the measures alive as long as the crisis lasts. It's the economic and social measures. Of course, we will also follow the medical situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1797	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Two and three.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1814	The size is then ready to go to voting on proposals that have been promoted in the debate. The President would also point out in the introduction that if a representative were to vote incorrectly, he would immediately be informed of it from the Chamber, so that the number of votes could be corrected. To those who are new: you shout: President, and then you get the word and say: I voted wrong – if you have.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1828	A total of 30 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1–5, from Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red the proposals No 6-12, from Audun Lighthouse on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 13–15, from Tone Wilhelmsen Trøen, on behalf of the Right the proposals No 16-21, from Sylvi Listhaug on behalf of the Progress Party the proposals No 22-30, from Lan Marie Nguyen Berg on behalf of the Greens Proposal No. In the course of the debate, 6 have been amended and now read: ‘The government is immediately asked by the government, by the end of October, to submit proposals for the temporary strengthening of housing aid and social assistance to ensure that people with poor advice have the money to pay the high current bills on the way.’ Proposal No. 13 is drawn. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 22 and 23, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a package of measures to lower electricity bills and electricity consumption in Norwegian households. The package shall include increased housing support, a strong increase in support for energy efficiency measures such as after-insulation of dwellings, and a strong increase in support for the establishment of local energy production as solar cells. The measures shall be available to low income households. In the package of measures, there must also be strong incentives for energy saving measures that can lower the electricity bill for people renting housing.» Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a two-price system on electricity to measure a fairer electricity market that distinguishes between normal consumption and luxury consumption.’ The Socialist Left and Red have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1877	There is a vote on proposal No. 24, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to present a green tax reform that makes it easier to live environmentally friendly in everyday life.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1894	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 25 and 26, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a percentage of climate where Norway contributes at least 1 per cent of GDP each year to climate action in developing countries.’ Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to increase the domestic emissions target to 80 per cent and to report this as a Norwegian commitment during the Paris agreement to the Glasgow climate summit, in order to ensure that Norway has a commitment that is proportionate to our historical emissions and our responsibility as an oil-producing country.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1916	There is a vote on proposal No. 27, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking, in the context of the State budget for 2022, to cut the price of train and collective tickets by at least 20 per cent.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1932	There is a vote on proposal No. 28 by the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget by the end of January 2022 with a proposal to strengthen night and night services between the major cities in Norway and abroad.’ The Socialist Left Party, the Red Party and the Left have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1949	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 29 and 30, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to stop further planning of Hordfast, part of the Free E39, and to re-prioritise funds for a more frequent, emission-free ferry service between Os and Stord/Tysnes and road safety measures along existing E39.’ Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide an overall analysis of climate and natural risks, including natural accounts, for all major transport projects in NTP 2022-2033.’ The Socialist Left and Red have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1973	There is a vote on proposal No. One from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to carry out a power investigation with particular emphasis on structures and the balance of power in the world of work’.» The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e1990	There is a vote on proposal No. Two, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking, in the context of the introduction of the annual commitment budget for greenhouse gas emissions as part of the ordinary government budget, to facilitate the response of the government to questions about the climate impact of the party groups on the Storting and to provide estimates of the distribution effect of the parties’ climate policies.’;» The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e2007	There is a vote on proposal No. Three from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a process to be initiated to hold referendums in the West, the Inland and Westfold and Telemark to review the state structure before 01.01.2020. Where the majority of one of the old counties so wishes, the government shall initiate a process of dissolution.’;» The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e2024	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to initiate a process to hold an advisory referendum within the framework of the old municipal boundaries of the former municipalities of Søgne, Haram municipality, Verran municipality, Flora municipality and Vågsø municipality on whether to return to the municipal structure that existed prior to the municipal merger that entered into force on 01.01.2020. Where the majority so wishes, the Government shall initiate a resolution process.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e2040	There is a vote on proposal No. 5 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Grand total requests the Presidency to return to the Grand Duchy as soon as possible with a proposal for the introduction of a registration obligation for government councils and State Secretaries of contracting entities and mandates they have had during the last two years before accession, if they have worked to promote political or commercial interests during that period.’;» The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e2057	There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to come to the Grand Duchy as soon as possible with proposals for the establishment of a scheme whereby persons with low income and high expenditure may apply for the cover of heating costs.» The Greens and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e2074	There is a vote on proposal No. 8, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide a notice to the Storting on urban living conditions, where recommendations made by the Jensen Committee are followed up.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e2091	President, can you read the proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e2096	The wording of proposal No. 8 is as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide a notice to the Storting on urban living conditions, where recommendations made by the Jensen Committee are followed up.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e2104	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e2109	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 9 and 10, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to present a case to the Stortinget with proposals for penalties to address harassment in fisheries.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to keep Andyya Air Station as the base for our maritime surveillance flights.’ Red, Left and Green have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e2134	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 11 and 12, of the Socialist Left Party: Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked to follow the EU Commission’s initiative to undertake a multilateral commitment not to allow the further extraction of fossil energy resources in the Arctic or neighbouring regions and not to purchase such products if they are nevertheless produced.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to submit proposals to the Stortinget since the spring of 2022 on how to amend the penal code with a view to defining rape as sexual intercourse without genuine consent and in line with international conventions.’ Red, Left and Green have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e2158	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 16, 17 and 20, from the Party of Advancement: Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The State budget 2021 is amended as follows: Fuel user charge [[chapter. 5538 items 70, 71 and 72]] (a) petrol per litre; sulphur-free petrol NOK 2,01, [[(less than 10 ppm sulphur):]] low-sulphurised petrol NOK 2,05 [[(less than 50 ppm sulphur):]] other petrol: NOK 2,05 b) Mineral oil for motor vehicle propulsion per litre [[autodiesel]] sulphur-free mineral oil NOK 0,58 [[(less than 10 ppm sulphur):]] low-sulphurised mineral oil NOK 0,64 [[(less than 50 ppm sulphur):]] other mineral oil: kr 0,64’» Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to refuse all requests for assistance in order to come to Norway from persons who have joined the Islamic State [[IS]] Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2021 is amended as follows: § 1. As from 1 November 2021 it shall be governed by Law No 19 May 1933. 11 if excise duties are paid to the central bank by zero øre per kWh on electricity supplied to private households in this country. The decision on value added tax for 2021 is amended as follows: New Section 6 As of 1 November 2021, VAT is not payable on electricity supplied to private households in this country."
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e2212	There is a vote on proposal No. 18, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to conduct a full investigation into Ullevål Hospital as an extension option to Gaustad.’ The Socialist Left Party, the Red Party and the Left have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e2229	There is a vote on proposal No. 19, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the State budget for 2021, EUR 15 million has been allocated for the upgrading and establishment of operating rooms at Klinik Alta. The government asks the government to establish a future-oriented ‘ulteren’ operating room with a purity in air of 10 CFU/m3 at Klinik Alta.’ The Greens and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e2246	There is a vote on proposal No. 21, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with concrete proposals for a reduced electricity charge and VAT. for 2022, at the latest, in the additionalproposal to the State budget for 2022.’;» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e2264	There is a vote on proposal No. 14 from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests that the notified new climate plan be submitted to the Stortinget by the end of February 2022 at the latest.’ The Socialist Left Party, the Red Party, the Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e2281	There is a vote on proposal No. 15 from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to evaluate the effects of neutral VAT on health businesses and present it to the Health Care Agency before any changes are made to the scheme.’ The Progress Party and the Left have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e2298	There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is immediately asked by the government, by the end of October, to submit proposals for the temporary strengthening of housing aid and social assistance to ensure that people with poor advice have the money to pay the high current bills on the way.’ All other parties have indicated their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e2315	The President will propose that His Majesty the King's speech to the 166th Great by its opening and notification of the state and governance of Norway be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e2327	The President will also propose that the statement by the Government be annexed to the Minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e2348	Carl I. Hagen has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e2353	This concerns the report from the Election Committee on the composition of the Permanent Committees of the Grand Duchy, and I have two comments on it. One is that we know that there are many provisions of the Rules of Procedure of a formal nature, and there are also some informal arrangements. I think that when we elect a 37-member electoral committee, there should at least be one single meeting of the committee that elects a chairman and vice-chairman. It's been something that I don't know about. There have been no meetings of the Election Committee. Everything has been done by the parliamentary leaders in what is called the Election Committee. I think that if it is to be the parliamentary leaders in the electoral committee who do all this work, perhaps the Rules of Procedure should be amended in accordance with practice. I ask that it be discussed in the presidency. The second is the content of this. There has long been the custom that outgoing members of the government who come back to the Storting do not become members of the committee responsible for the matter that the Council of State had. This report has been broken with regard to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, by the fact that the former Minister for Foreign Affairs has been proposed as chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy. There is no criticism of the former foreign minister, but that is the principle I am dealing with. In many international contexts, of course, our foreign minister has become a familiar face. When the same person appears as head of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, it may be that not everyone is so closely involved in Norwegian policy that they have come to realize that there has been a change in government councils and members, and that the former Minister of Foreign Affairs may still be seen as Minister of Foreign Affairs in Norway, that one is not aware that there have been elections once. That's why it can be unfortunate. Now I know that this happened once earlier, in 2001. Then the former foreign minister of the Workers' Party, Thorbjørn Jagland, became the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee. There was general criticism from quite a few in the public room. Both the SV, the Advance Party and the Right leaders strongly criticized that this happened. The newspaper wrote that all the custom dictates that a government council should not go directly from a department to the corresponding committee on Stortinget. Here too, I think it would be sensible if the presidency were to discuss this practice, which concerns all the councils returning to the Grand Duchy, should be included in the Rules of Procedure, so that the outgoing Councils are not elective to the committee that is responsible for the area they had as the Council of State, or whether it is appropriate to allow the resignation of the Council of State to go directly to the committee for which they were responsible. It is true that a government council that comes into the same committee will have vastly more knowledge from the ministry, will have good contacts in the ministry and will be in a completely different position in committee than the other committee members. There is a lot of talk about making such a provision in the Rules of Procedure. I am content to ask the presidency to discuss this issue when there are government changes where some alumni state councils become magistrates, and whether there should be some formal rules for which committees they are going to enter. I still find it highly critical that the Right has placed its former Foreign Minister as the head of the Foreign and Defence Committee. The right was very opposed when it happened in 2001, although they did not formally renounce it, but Jan Petersen made strong comments in the public room. To put it that way: I was not so surprised that it happened in 2001 from the Labour Party, but I am very surprised that the Right, who has held on to traditions and customs for a long, long time in this house, has now broken this. I have no alternative proposal, but I would ask the presidency to discuss the two questions that I have raised here.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e2370	The President does not see that the representative Carl I. Hagen had a proposal for a different approach to the matter than that it was to be annexed to the Minutes. – So we keep going where we left off. It has been decided unanimously that the Minutes are closed. 1 and 2 shall be annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-21.ana.ud124e2480	Today's map has thus been processed. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? – Nobody does, and the meeting has been cancelled.
