ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-26.ana.ud280e25	From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 22 October 2021 concerning planned changes in the ministerial structure, changes in the division of responsibilities between the State Councils of the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries and the appointment of State Secretaries: «The City Council was held at Oslo Castle on 22 October 2021 at 2.30 p.m. 1100 under the direction of His Majesty the King. The following decision was adopted: Councillor Björn Selnes Schjäran takes over from the Ministry of Transport: managed by the Coastal and Environmental Department, with the exception of those parts of the department responsible for coordinating the Ministry of Transport's work on environmental and climate issues; and responsibility for the state management of the Coastal Works and the Centres for Oil Protection and the Marine Environment. Councillor Bjørn Selnes Schüran takes over the management of the Department of Maritime Affairs and responsibility for the project Ocean Space Centre from the Council of State Jan Christian Vestre in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries. Government Council Björn Selnes Schüran is also responsible for coordinating the green shipping effort. State Council Björnna Selnes Schjäran and State Council Jan Christian Vestre have administrative responsibility for laws in accordance with the attached proposals. The following are appointed State Secretaries: Professor Oddmund Løkensgard Hoel, State Secretary for State Council Ola Borten Moe, Department of Knowledge. County Council Kristina Sigursdottir Hansen, State Secretary for State Council Björn Selnes Schjöran, Ministry of Food and Fisheries. County Council Bent-Joacim Bentzen, State Secretary for State Council Odd Roger Enoksen, Ministry of Defence. Group leader Aleksander Øren Heen, State Secretary for State Council Espen Barth Eide in the Ministry of Climate and Environment. Head of the Political and Social Department, Gunn Karin Gjul, State Secretary for State Council Bjørn Arild Gram in the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. Head of Service, Ole Henrik Krat Bjørkholt, State Secretary for State Council. Rapporteur John-Erik Vika, State Secretary for the Council of State Emilie Enger Mehl, Ministry of Justice and Defence. State Attorney Hans-Petter Aasen, State Secretary for State Council Emilie Enger Mehl, Ministry of Justice and Defence. Political adviser Erik Sandsmark Ldsøe, State Secretary for State Council Emilie Enger Mehl, Ministry of Justice and Defence. These posts are kept open to State Secretaries employed by the State as long as they are State Councils and State Secretaries. If they have been added to the annual target position, the end of the annual target shall be postponed for a period corresponding to the time they have served as state councils or state secretaries. All the amendments made above shall take effect on 22 October 2021 at the latest. 12:00.’ The referenced letter shall be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-26.ana.ud280e90	The President will state that the Financial Committee has sent a letter to the Presidency requesting that the time limits for the budgetary procedure be suspended, as referred to in Section 43 of the Rules of Procedure. The President will therefore, in accordance with Rule 79 of the Rules of Procedure, propose that the Stortinget derogate from the provision of Section 43, third paragraph, that the Financial Committee should give its opinion on the national budget and the State budget by 20 November at the latest. This means that the financial position will be released on 26 November and that the financial debate will be held on 2 December. As a consequence, it will not be possible for the Storting to examine the budgetary positions of the technical committees by the deadline of 15 December. The President will therefore propose that the Storting should depart from the provisions of Section 43, sixth paragraph, of the Rules of Procedure, that the budgetary positions of the Scientific Committees should be reviewed by 15 December at the latest. Does anyone ask for the word? - That's not what it looks like. The President has therefore proposed that the third and sixth paragraphs of Paragraph 43 of the Rules of Procedure be waived and that it be deemed adopted. The timetable for the release and management of the budgetary settings will be announced in a short time. The President has reason to believe that today's meeting will be short, and therefore asks the representatives to be seated until today's map has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-26.ana.ud280e118	New members of the Electoral Committee shall be elected first and the President shall be notified in advance of the following proposals by the Party Groups: Odd Harald Hovland and Cecilie Myrseth have been proposed as new members of the electoral committee instead of Jonas Gahr Støre and Hadia Tajik, who have joined the government. Siv Mossleth and Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen have been proposed as new members of the election committee instead of Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum and Kjersti Toppe, who have joined the government. Guri Melby has been proposed as a new member of the Election Committee instead of Sofie Högestøl, who no longer meets as a representative. Olug Vervik Bollestad has been proposed as a new member of the electoral committee instead of Kjell Ingolf Ropstad. Are there any more proposals? - That's not what it looks like. The President proposes that it be voted in the usual way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-26.ana.ud280e145	Odd Harald Hovland, Cecilie Myrseth, Siv Mossleth, Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen, Guri Melby and Olug Vervik Bollestad are unanimously elected as new members of the electoral committee. New alternates shall then be elected to the Electoral Committee and the President shall be notified in advance of the following proposals by the Party Groups: Lubna Boby Jaffery and Frode Jacobsen have been proposed as new alternates to the Election Committee instead of Odd Harald Hovland and Cecilie Myrseth, who have become permanent members of the Committee. Gro-Anita Mykjåland, Per Martin Sandtrøen and Ivar B. Prestbakmo have been proposed as new alternates to the Election Committee instead of Emilie Mehl, who has joined the Government, and instead of Siv Mossleth and Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen, who have become permanent members of the Committee. Sveinung Rotevatn and Abid Raja have been proposed as new alternates to the electoral committee instead of Ane Breivik and Solveig Schytz, who no longer meet as representatives. Dag-Inge Ulstein has been proposed as a new alternate to the electoral committee instead of Astrid Aarhus Byrknes, who no longer meets as a representative. Are there any more proposals? - That's not what it looks like. The President proposes that it be voted in the usual way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-26.ana.ud280e174	Lubna Boby Jaffery, Frode Jacobsen, Gro-Anita Mykjåland, Per Martin Sandtrøen, Ivar B. Prestbakmo, Sveinung Rotevatn, Abid Raja and Dag-Inge Ulstein are unanimously elected as new alternate members of the electoral committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-26.ana.ud280e212	The items on today's maps have been processed. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
