ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e551	The representative Per Espen Stoknes will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e556	It is not with pleasure, but in despair I present a proposal for a representative for an extraordinary supervisory campaign in Norwegian pig farms, with the wish for urgent procedure under point (c) of the second paragraph of Article 39 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e561	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e568	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Council this week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Svein Harberg. – Other proposals are not available, and Svein Harberg is unanimously elected president of this week’s meetings. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that case no. 39 – Unit – will be dealt with after case No. 30, and that it's now going to be voting in the first place. The President therefore asks the representatives to remain in office until the vote is over and the minutes have been finalised. Furthermore, the President will inform you that today's meeting will continue beyond noon if necessary. 16th@item: inlistbox Case No. 1 to 30 will be treated as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e915	No one has asked for the floor. The size then goes to voting on the case no. 1-30 on today's map and case no. 39, Unit.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e926	Case No. 1–30 is the second reading of legal acts and concerns legislative acts 168 up to and including 197. There are no comments. Thus, the law of the Storting has been passed on the second time and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1095	The size is then for the treatment of today's map. Case No. 31-38 will be dealt with as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1204	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will organise the debate as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Right 30 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Central Party 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Green Party 5 minutes, Red 5 minutes and Minister for Transport 5 minutes. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines will be given with replies after submissions by the main numbering members of the lots and up to six lines with replies from members of the government. Those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1215	First of all, I would like to express my great thanks to the Committee for a good and constructive cooperation in the work on the national transport plan. It is a comprehensive report that is of great interest to both peoples and businesses in the whole country as well as to politics. Particular attention is given to the project portfolio, which provides clear guidance on which transport projects are to be developed in the coming years. This plan sets out to develop important transport corridors, to build strong housing and labour markets and to facilitate growth and development across the country. From the viewpoint of the government parties, we note that there is a relatively broad disintegration of the overall framework underpinned by the government. In our opinion, a total of about 1,200 billion is. kr ambitious, but at the same time realistic. The exception is the Progress Party, which has increased the frame by 400 billion. kr, which, in our opinion, is unrealistically high and not feasible within the space of action we believe to see in the years to come. There also appears to be relatively broad support for the main priorities of the plan, which contributes to both predictability of implementation and predictability around the whole country as to which projects are coming, and when. This plan has taken several steps to get even more transportation out of each penny. We only prioritise concrete projects during the first six-year period and implement the principle of portfolio management. It creates more flexibility to continue working on improving the projects. The aim of portfolio management is to facilitate the continuous improvement of projects. In an age of ever faster technological change, flexibility is particularly important. Now we give our transport companies a bigger space for action all the time to work with improvements. The benefits shall be recovered and the costs shall be reduced. Since the Right came into government, the budget for transport has almost doubled. We build a road and a path like never before. But it's not enough to give more money. It has also been necessary to carry out more reforms, both in order to provide better opportunities for people and businesses, and also in order to obtain the best possible transport for each krone we use of the resources of the community and taxpayers. National transport plan proposes to continue and further develop the reforms we have already undertaken. We continue to modernise the transport sector. New Roads are given new routes throughout the country and the company is given a railway project for the first time. We're going to build on the success of Nye Weegen, and it's going to be exciting to see how they solve the challenges of the Ringeriksbanen and E16 joint project. The establishment of New Roads has also shown that it is possible to rethink whether the conditions are facilitated. Early involvement of suppliers and portfolio management is one of the factors that have contributed to improvement and that both the Bane NOR and the State Road Service can make use of in their work. We need to facilitate the full potential of the entire transport business. We also continue to compete on the railway because it provides a better offer to travellers at a lower price for the community and the taxpayers. We release funds that we can use to develop Norwegian railways. The opposition, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, and SV have voted against and criticised the changes we have made in the field of transport, but have few, if any, their own solutions. The answer is largely reversal, now most recently about the railway reform. It has rarely been a good idea to meet tomorrow's challenges with yesterday's solutions, and it can be expensive too. The national road maintenance network has been reduced for the first time in several decades in 2015 and the reduction continues in 2021 and in the NTP period. In a new NTP, we also take important steps for the county roads. The majority of the county road network was transferred to the county municipalities in the context of the administrative reform in 2010. Now a national power cap is taken to repair the county roads. The initiative is two-fold and consists of a new grant scheme and increased compensation for the tunnel safety regulation. The total bet is $18 billion. kr, which is additional to that received by the county through the ordinary income system. For the Right, it has been important that the scheme is targeted and that economic pathways and housing and labour market regions are given priority. This is not an application-based scheme. Resources are allocated on the basis of the size of the maintenance set-off and the county municipality itself will be able to give priority to the roads to be built within the criteria of the scheme. An excess is required at least equal to the state part, i.e. a 50-50 split layer between state and state. I have great faith that this will be a good tool to reduce the maintenance run on the county road network, as well as the slightly over 20 billion used annually by county municipalities for this purpose. A new national transport plan also follows up the climate plan and the ambition to halve greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector by 2030. We will implement new solutions and work specifically to reduce emissions from both the construction and use of transport infrastructure. If we are to succeed in this work, we must continue to facilitate the development of a technology that allows all modes of transport to be based on low and zero emission solutions. We believe that the answer is to make use of the opportunities offered by the technology for better transport solutions and lower emissions, not to restrict the freedom of movement of citizens. The phase-in of electric cars in Norway is a success. The tax exemption has made this possible, and the new car sales of electric cars are now over 50 pst. It should always pay to act environmentally friendly. Therefore, we will focus our policy on achieving the objective of selling only zero-emission passenger cars by 2025. The switch to new technologies in ferries is another example in which we actively use public procurement policies and tenders to impose low- and zero-emission solutions, combined with good grant schemes through Enova. In a short time, a large part of the ferries will be based on low and zero emission technologies. It shows that it's useful. At the same time, we also see a positive development related to speedboats. We're making great efforts to facilitate more people going, cycling or using public transport, and to facilitate a climate-friendly and environmentally friendly urban development of 80 billion. kr to urban areas. Urban growth agreements have been established with the four major urban areas, and the next five are on their way. In addition, we see that there may be a need for some simpler solutions for the other urban areas. That is why we are now setting up a grant scheme to stimulate an increase in collective, cycling and walking in five new urban areas. It's the first time a four-year scheme, but as it's natural to further develop both the scale and the number of urban areas if the results are what we want. We are facing major changes in the transport sector. New technology will give us new opportunities and some new challenges. Analysis shows that forms of transport complement each other and that in a country where Norway is dependent on both road, rail, air and sea transport. If we are to achieve our climate objectives, we need to develop technologies that make all modes of transport based on low or zero emission solutions. We have to cut the emissions, not the evolution. New technologies and new mobility solutions will contribute to new and better solutions for the future. It is important that this development is regulated in a way that supports its development and benefits for capacity utilisation in existing infrastructure, road safety, climate and the environment. At the same time, we need to be aware of the challenges that this can create, not least in terms of privacy and data sharing. We have a lot of environments in Norway that work well to develop and implement new technologies in the transport sector. That is why we also see a clear need to strengthen research efforts in this area, and we are doubling the research funds in this NTP. A record bet on traffic creates a lot of activity and ring-effects. Norwegian suppliers have shown over time that they are competitive, and a large part of the contracts have gone to Norwegian contractors for the last eight years. It is good and helps to strengthen the Norwegian supplier industry. At the same time, we need to work continuously to ensure that there is also a situation in the years to come. National transport plan is an ambitious and realistic plan that facilitates a balanced development of infrastructure across the country. At the same time, we will introduce new technologies, cut emissions and ensure that a modern infrastructure contributes to both value creation and development.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1261	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1266	In recent days, the Chairman of the Committee and the undersigned have had the opportunity to discuss the situation of the construction industry in Norway and the fact that during this government the development projects have become much larger. I understand that the chairman of the committee has disputed this, but now Veilück has gone through all transport contracts, road and rail development – all contracts worth over half a billion kroner from 2017. According to the Road Cover presented, 9 pst went in 2017. of the contracts to foreign operators. By 2020, that percentage had increased to 43, and so far this year has 52 pst. by the development projects went to foreign entrepreneurs and projects increased and increased. I assume that the chairman of the committee does not doubt the figures from Road Deck. Why does the government and the majority of the population run this policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1273	I think we have to remind ourselves that we have doubled the budget for transport in the last eight years. There is more activity than ever in the transport sector — and large contracts and small contracts within the construction sector. I see that we have had a very high proportion of Norwegian deliveries over the eight years we have been doing, and we now see a trend based on the figures presented by the representative Myrli and to the extent that Veileck has presented. This may indicate that there is a turnaround towards the fact that some of these major contracts are now won by foreign contractors. I think we're all going to take that seriously. We shall ensure that best efforts are made to ensure that Norwegian suppliers – Norwegian suppliers – are able to benefit as much as possible from the efforts made in the transport sector. We have a variety of contracts in this sector, and they are both large and small contracts. Unfortunately, some projects are not possible to break up, but at the same time, I think we will continue to work to see how we can best facilitate the best possible success of Norwegian suppliers in the competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1282	We'll probably get back to that theme. I will ask the chairman of the committee another question. The national transport plan is, of course, the major issue for the Transport Committee during the four-year period and, as usual, the work of the Chairman of the Committee as rapporteur of the case. Now we are in the situation that for the first time since 2005, there is no majority in the Grand Duchy behind the National Transport Plan. My question to the chairman of the committee is: how does he assess that situation, and what will it be for NTP to say in the future that there is no majority behind the plan in Stortinget, and to what extent has it been interested and desirable from the government and government parties to have a majority with the Progress Party, which was the only possibility that really existed to have a majority behind the National Transport Plan? The chairperson of the Committee referred to the alternative of the Party to the Progress in its main contribution. But the question is, to what extent was it possible to obtain a majority behind the national transport plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1289	Now it is the case that the Progress Party must be allowed to speak in favour of its own proposal. Our assessment is to add 400 billion. kr at the top of the 1 200 billion. kr that the government has laid down, and which we base on in our work, is unrealistic and not feasible within the space of action we see in the years to come. Therefore, it was not possible for us to reach a common agreement in this round with the Progress Party, plus that we also have a disagreement relating to tolls and urban growth agreements and other things in the plan. Having said that, I feel that there is a fairly broad agreement overall to the main framework of the National Transport Plan of about 1,200 billion. kr. I feel that there is a broad support for the main priorities of the national transport plan. There is no great interest in picking projects out of the plan. So I think that plan also contributes to a good predictability in the years that come. At least we have an ambition to implement this if the election result in September gives us that opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1296	I hear the place boasts of New Veier. That's good. There we had a very good cooperation in government, and what we did with New Roads is historical, and if the opposition hasn't understood it yet, they'll probably understand it as they read history books in a few years' time. What we've also done with Nye Veier is that we've moved a little bit on limits. Originally, E6 was supposed to stop in a place called Ensby. Not so many have heard of it. We adjusted it up to Hafjell to increase the benefit of it, also in line with what New Veiger himself wanted. Now the government has proposed Biri-Hunndalen. The Hunndalen is probably not so many who have heard of it, but it is a little after Gjøvik. While business, especially at Raufoss and along Rv. 4 into Oslo, which produces values over 70 billion. kr, and Højres own local politicians all the way – really all along the whole rv. 4 – wants a complete expansion and a better expansion. Will the place be able to be with e.g. to support the proposal to move the border to the Year and not to Hunndalen, so that New Veger will be given responsibility until the Year, as they themselves wish? It's something that would definitely be a security for business along the way. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1305	This national transport plan is built up in such a way that we only prioritise projects during the first six-year period. It's just to have a flexibility to continue working on projects within the 12-year period we're talking about. Riksveg 4 is a good example of a bottleneck for business, which we absolutely want to raise in the further planning work. It is important for us that we contribute to the overall planning of the further sections also on Rv. 4th@item: inlistbox At the same time, what we've put into New Vee's portfolio now is exactly the distance that the representative Johnsen refers to, and that's a natural continuation to connect the Mjøsby in a good way. I think that's a project that has good connection also in the region, and then it's natural for us to continue working on the planning work on the remaining part of Rv. 4th@item: inlistbox We see that it is natural to reconsider when we are going to roll the national transport plan, and then the planning work must be completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1312	A few months ago, the Minister of Finance presented the Right View message, and it appears that the economic space for action will be smaller in the years ahead. The government of Solberg's wasteland must end in order for something to happen again to future generations, and in recent years, the Right has formed budget pluralities along with the Advance Party. The representative of the place was in the post, and he was also interested in it when Sverre Myrli asked the question. But I could have thought of getting it a little bit more in clear order how the representative of the place simply assesses the realism of the Progress Party's proposal to spend $1,600 billion. kr on transport in the next few years, and whether that is why we are not now getting together behind a realistic national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1320	First of all, I would like to say that I feel that there is a fairly broad connection to that envelope of 1200 billion. kr that the government has taken into account. I feel that it is a broad commitment to the main priorities of the national transport plan. So I don't think there's any reason why we're going to make more uncertainty about what's in the NTP than what's necessary, because the fact that there's such a broad connection to the framework level and to the main priorities, makes it a level of predictability. Then, together with the Progress Party, we have now for eight years delivered sixteen budgetary settlements, and we have also created a national transport plan together in the past. I am sure that we have a civil majority even after September, we will be able to do this in a good way within the responsible financial framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1325	The representative place is a tough defender for the ferry-free E39 to unimaginable sums, among other things. to send people on four-field roads under the sea – Mortar axis, Rogfast, etc. It has been shown that environmental arguments do not bite sinfully on the right side. So I want to angle the question a little differently to the representative Place: can the representative explain to me how his favorite argument on the common housing and labour market can be realised with a toll tariff of perhaps 800 kroner – for example. Rogfast tur-return? Does not the representative ask himself that question at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1332	I'm a little uncertain about where these toll tariffs come from, because I can't do that without further notice. But at least there is great local enthusiasm associated with these projects that the representative here refers to. Whether it is Rogfast, Hordfast or Møreaksen, there is a broad political majority behind these projects – precisely because they contribute to building the housing and labour market on the west coast. It's important. We have a high value creation potential that we can help to get out by building strong housing and labour markets in the whole country. This is extremely important from my perspective because building up the regions is one of the possibilities we have just to contribute to future value creation. What is one of the major challenges in some areas is just to attract the skills we need to develop the business we have. We'll have enough to live off in the future. I think that supporting value creation, growth and development is crucial in the future, even if we are to achieve our climate and environmental objectives and develop new technologies related to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1337	With that, the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1342	The working party has set out some objectives for the work on the national transport plan. Firstly, the emissions from the transport sector are going down, so that we can meet our international climate commitments. We need to build stronger housing and work regions and strengthen the framework conditions for Norwegian business. That was target number two. Objective three is that we should achieve the objectives of the vision of zero killed and severely damaged in traffic. Objective four is that we should combat social dumping in the transport sector. Serious work is one of Norway’s main competitive advantages. The fifth objective is that transport investment should strengthen Norwegian enterprises with Norwegian wage and working conditions. Let me immediately say that of course there is a lot of good in the government's national transport plan. 1 200 billion must be used. kr for transport purposes for the next 12 years. But there are some issues that are hardly affected in the Storing Communication. One of the most important challenges in the transport sector is social dumping, unprofessional actors and pressure on pay and working conditions. I've read the message well. I do not think the term ‘social dumping’ is mentioned in the Storing Communication at all. We must combat social dumping in the transport sector. A serious work life must be what we're going to work for. There is a great deal to be done here, and therefore the efforts in this area must be stepped up. In addition, Norwegian businesses and Norwegian enterprises need to be left for the large amounts we are now going to spend on transport. During this government, many of the expansion projects have become so huge that Norwegian construction companies are unable to submit tenders. The projects are simply too large. We can't have it like that. Transport investments need to strengthen the Norwegian construction industry with companies following Norwegian wage and work conditions, which have apprentices, who take work on health, environment and safety seriously, who pay taxes and taxes to the community and which are part of social service. The working party has made some changes to what was the government’s NTP scheme. Over the twelve-year period, repriorities are made in our 9 billion alternative arrangement. kr. In addition to increased bets on county roads of 2.4 billion kr and increased NTP frame by 3,6 billion. release this total of 15 billion. kr for new bets. Our efforts – which is then in addition to the government’s proposals – go to county roads, fishing ports, railways, urban growth agreements and collective investment, racial protection and planning and start-up of some national road projects in addition to those proposed by the government. In the case of county roads, we propose that more be allocated to county municipalities in our alternative budget every year. We estimate that 200 million. kr of which is invested each year on county roads, together with a total of 2,4 billion. kr over the 12-year period. In the case of fishing ports, the majority in this room has against, inter alia: Votes of the Labour Party – adopted to be transferred to the counties. It is a transfer that is not adequately funded. At this moment, it is still likely that there are four county municipalities that have not signed the agreement to take over the fishing ports. The Workers' Party now proposes that a system be established whereby county municipalities can apply for funds for upgrading fishing ports through a one-off pot. The Workers' Party will pursue an offensive railway policy. We will stop the outsourcing and fragmentation and have a more comprehensive and transparent organisation. We do not want to expose the operation, maintenance and preparedness of the government within the railway infrastructure. It is necessary to draw up a long-term plan to resume the maintenance run on the railway. The railway structures adopted must be implemented. The government is cutting the intercity expansion. The Workers' Party does not consider that to be correct. The ambition of intercity development on the Dovrebanen, the Eastfold Railway, the Westfold Railway and the Ringeriks Railway must be at hand. In addition, more measures are needed for more goods on the road. The Labour Party welcomes the increased government's commitment to urban growth agreements and grants for collective projects, but that is not enough. The Workers' Party will significantly increase the focus on urban growth agreements, collective projects and other collective actions. The Labour Party believes that a national racial protection plan must be drawn up and must be drawn up with the counties and apply to both county and national roads. We are pleased that we have got the whole Stortinget to agree that a national racial protection plan should be drawn up, but it has to be followed up with appropriations. The Workers' Party proposes a significant investment in racial protection in our NTP scheme. We also contribute money to further planning and starting some road projects in the first planning period, which can then be completed in the last planning period. So I'd like to say a few words about the NTP process. It is the first time since 2005 that there has not been a majority in the Stortingen for NTP. It's sad, because the national transport plan becomes a better document when there's a majority in the back. The Progress Party played its part. They simply did not want to compromise with the government. We saw that when we saw their option, which is a completely unrealistic NTP scheme – yes, I would say unprofessional NTP scheme. It's the choice of the Progress Party, but the result was that they didn't get any influence on what was the government's NTP. It's their choice. NTP is a good planning tool if used correctly. With the NTP arrangement of the Progress Party, the plan would become an airlock that cannot be implemented. The Progress Party has over 100 proposals for individual projects. SV has over 50 proposals. It is announced that even more proposals are being made in the morning today. They're not put out yet, so I'm not sitting on the number, but at least that's a huge number of suggestions. NTP treatment is now approaching a proposal bonus. On the weekend I was called up by several media throughout the country: now there are even more proposals for individual projects, will you support them, and will you support them? The Labour Party agrees with many of the proposals of the Progress Party and most of the SV's proposals, but what would NTP have been if the Stortinge had adopted 150 or 200 or 250 individual proposals for individual projects? National transport plan is not a collection of individual decisions and projects. National transport plan is a roadmap for the transport sector over the next 12 years. That's the way it should be, and that's the way it should be. Then the plan becomes a good planning tool. It's a shame if it's now destroyed. Let me say a few words as case rapporteur for the Harstad package, case No. 38 on today's map. It is gratifying that there is a large majority in the Stortinget for the revised financing arrangements for the Harstad package. With what is now adopted, new infrastructure will be built in and around the city, on both road and public transport. There are projects that are absolutely necessary for the urban development that Harstad is going through. The city has major urban development plans and proposes a modern land and transport policy based on future challenges. It's done a good job locally in Harstad. It is well-treated in the municipality of Troms and Finnmark, and the Stortinget approves the revised financing scheme for the Harstad package. With the projects and measures in the package, I think we can establish that Harstad will be an even better city than what Harstad is today. Finally, I would like to take the opportunity to make some suggestions. So it's in case number. 31. National transport plan and proposals No. 1-7, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, proposal No. 8, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party, and Proposal No. 10, on behalf of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1380	The representative Sverre Myrli has taken up the suggestions he referred to. The President may inform the House that 372 proposals have been made. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1389	It sounds like we have to cancel all the agreements we have tomorrow afternoon. The representative Myrli was involved in ambitions related to intercity development. They, together with the SV and the Centre Party, have made a proposal which reads as follows: ‘The majority believe that the ambition for the InterCity operation on the Dovrebanen, Østfoldbanen, Vestfoldbanen and Ringeriksbanen is at stake.’ The government has now submitted an NTP that is adapted to the economic situation, on the basis of which it is assumed that improvements in supply will be made as soon as possible within the economic space in which it is located. The Labour Party has, as far as I can see, set of 2 billion. kr extra in addition to the government's proposal for the railway system. How does the representative Myrli manage to realize the level of ambition at the intercity bet by 2 billion? extra kr to the railway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1401	That's a good question. It takes a huge amount of money to continue and complete the intercity expansion. I believe that the Minister for Transport has answered, on questions from the Committee, that something like 170 billion is needed. kr. Now parts of it are in the national transport plan – it needs to be emphasised – but considerable sums are needed to complete it. We reacted in the first place to the fact that the government is going away from ambition. I have registered that the government parties in Stortinget are a little different and are also adding a little more money to the railway. The working party has a solution, and just to make it clear: we don't have the money to complete it now, but the ambition must be to continue the intercity development. We must follow the ambitions we have had, and there must be clarifications in cities that are now waiting – Fredrikstad, Sandefjord and Larvik. That is why it has to be planned further, and that is what we have put money into. It has to be planned further, and then we have to contribute money to further expansions beyond what is there, into the next national transport plan in four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1408	To another theme - New Roads. We established it against the votes of both the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV in 2015, if I remember correctly. We have seen that New Weger has managed both to reduce costs and to increase the cost-benefit factor for a good part of the projects they are implementing. With the innovation that lies in Nye Veier, you can now see an opportunity to transfer more to both Bane NOR and the State Road Service, which means that we might get an improvement for all transport activities. I register that SV has plans to wind up New Veier, and I understand that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV have an ambition to take over power in the election. How does the Workers' Party view the further development of New Roads in a constellation of parties that want to wind up the company?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1415	I don't know how many dozens of times I've got that question from the committee chairman, but he's going to get the answer again. The working party was opposed to the creation of New Roads, which is quite correct, but we respect the fact that the bulk of the population adopted it. When it was adopted, our approach has been that we hope New Roads will succeed, because we also want to build up the same roads that New Roads have in their portfolio. But I have to say that this is also a little play by the government and the government parties. Many new projects are now being introduced into New Roads without funding. The same amount shall be granted each year to New Roads, but the government shall extend the period of five new years until 2041. So the government and the government's challenge is that all the projects they're now transferring to New Roads, they can't say anything about when they're done. In the worst case, it may take 20 years for those projects to be completed. So in the worst case, they're not done until 2041. At least it's not a good idea. That is why we need to go through the whole process of organising and building roads in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1424	One thing that is at least certain, is that the Workers' Party and Sverre Myrli can sit on the reserve bench, because we agree on the same framework as the government parties add up to, but we have 1 billion. Extra kroner. I have experienced the Workers' Party representatives who have traveled around and said that now they are going to expand intercity, and the ambition is that it will be done in 2030. And then it's 2 billion. kr more than the government of 12 years – there are 166 million. kr per year. It's bluffing people when you travel around and say you're going to build and have completed intercity by 2033. Or, as you say, you have to reverse the railway reform and the railway launch. It costs a few billion, too. To say that others have unprofessional alternative national transport plans is becoming very unprofessional of those who are actually in favour of it. As the representative was inside, the government is placing eleven new projects without money, and the Workers' Party is fully behind it. It can't be very serious what the Workers' Party is now promoting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1434	There was basically no question here, but I can talk a little bit anyway. The working party has a serious NTP structure, and we also want that, because NTP should be a serious and predictable plan. When I see the proposals of the Progress Party, I do not think there is a single national road project in Norway that the Progress Party has not submitted. They've sent out to the party organization: if there's some way in their district, come with it – we'll put it in our NTP setup. This is the NTP work of the Progress Party. It's unrealistic, and I would also say it's unrealistic, because it turns up the expectations -- people lift the flag, eat cake and say that now one comes into the NTP, and then it's not possible to realize. The Workers' Party does not promise that the intercity expansion will be completed by 2030. That is not possible, for the government that, among other things, Mr. Hoksrud was Secretary of State in, in the Ministry of Transport, it has doubled and delayed the expansion. So it's not possible to achieve what I think was a unanimous growing goal in 2013, to complete the intercity expansion in 2030. But we have to plan further, so that one day we'll be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1443	Sverre Myrli and I are from Akershus. It is very important that we get the job on Lower Romerike – it is important for the climate and important for those who live there. Then we have a concrete proposal, proposal No. 167, that the Lørenskogbahn, or the Rome Railway, should enter the national transport plan. I have seen that the Labour Party talks a lot about the plan, but they have said very clearly that they will vote against it. Then I'd like to ask, is it just words, or does it also come from the Workers' Party? I'm worried that climate and transport are down-prioritized by the Workers' Party – they talk and talk, but they vote against it. Then I would like an answer: will the Labour Party vote in favour of this specific proposal? And if not, will the Workers' Party promise that Lørenskogbanen can come in if we are to rule the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1450	It is an advantage to read the setting before a person speaks up and criticises. The Workers' Party has put in place considerable efforts in collective development. I fully agree with my colleague on Akershus' bench that the Rome Railway, or the Lower Romerike track solution, or what one should call it – dear child has many names – must be realized, and the Workers' Party has worked for it for 10–15 years. There is no doubt that once the Fornebuban is realised, as the state is with and funding, when the new T-Bahn tunnel in Oslo is completed, which the state is with and funding, the path solution Lower Romerike, the Roman Railway, must also be realized. It has been the Labour Party's approach all along – in Stortinget, in Oslo municipality, in Akershu County municipality and now in Viken County municipality and throughout Oslopacket 3 work. So yes, it's a very important project, the Workers' Party is to realize it. The Labour Party is in order for the state to participate and finance it in addition to funds from Oslopackakt 3, and yes, a new government must intervene.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1455	The working party says that one wants the state to cover up to 70 pst. of the urban growth agreements, i.e. not 70 pst., but ‘up to’ 70 pst. We see that the Workers' Party has added 80 billion. kr to urban growth agreements and urban agreements, i.e. nothing more than what the government has put in. So one, using creative bookkeeping, has said that one should increase by 3 billion. kr, by saving on collection costs. What is it? Is it road pricing that isn't invented yet, or is there any other thing? My question to the representative of the Workers' Party is: Is it true that if the Oslo Tunnel gets 70 pst., there is another project that only gets 10 pst., because it is “up to” 70 pst., because you have no more money than the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1462	Yes, we do. We've added the difference. The government has added 66 pst. to the collective projects, according to the notice, and then we have entered the difference between 66 pst. and 70 pst. because we believe that the state should contribute 70 pst. to large collective investment in large cities. ‘Until’ means that there shall be no blank authorisation. Projects shall contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, which contribute to the strengthening of the overall land and transport planning. It should not be the case that the metropolitan areas come with a project, and then the state should just turn up. No, collective projects must contribute to the achievement of the common objectives set by both the State and the city. We have suggested that someone start using new technology, like road pricing, or at least start figuring it out. But it's completely possible to start on a smaller scale. Initiatives have been taken in both Tromsø and Kristiansand, where one can apply new technology. We are absolutely sure that it is possible to make it far more effective than what is being done now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1469	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1474	First, I have to be careful to address our suggestions in all matters, that may be okay. I might have asked for a quick vote in all the cases, so there could be a bit of voting tomorrow, but I won't. But we have some concrete proposals that have been put forward today, which are going to follow up some of what happened in the committee at the end, because it does not help with comments, it actually has to be suggested to build. There are many comments, but little concrete and few suggestions from, among others. the opposition lots. We are now going to deal with the national transport plan. It shows the way for what we want, and what we're going to do in transportation over the next twelve years. The government has put forward its proposal, and so have the other parties – and the jam was a slowdown, given. Here's someone in the government offices who's happy with it, but the jam is the opposition, too. They obviously don't have much faith in the possibilities of lifting transportation in the next twelve years. SV has the same frame as the government, but they're going to remove the roads for 109 billion. kr. Then there is not much way forward – and at least not much new way. The Workers' Party has found room for a poor billion more than the government's frame, and the Centre Party has removed the billion that the Workers' Party put on. That means that it's a government and an opposition that really have the same framework to deal with, and then you're a little creative in accounting. The party of progress is the only party that is quite clear and clear: yes, we want to spend more money. We want to spend a lot more money, and it's about willingness to say that transportation is important. I feel that the opposition here is terrified that they are going into the government offices for the autumn – that is quite clear. It's not us. We're very clear that it's about betting on transportation, it's about ‘fine’ – and that's what we have. We've added 400 billion. kr over a 12-year period – over 12 years. That's the same thing that the oil fund has increased by just this year. If you look at the last year, it's increased by 1,000 billion. kr. It's almost the entire NTP of the government. So it's about willingness to give priority. Transport is so important all around the country, whether it's in North Norway, South Norway, the West or Central Norway – people are clear and clear everywhere in the country, and they say clearly: we need better roads, rail, aviation or maritime transport. It takes the Progress Party seriously, and that is why we are promoting our proposal for a national transport plan, which I know many have looked at, but which many have obviously not looked so closely at. They should, because here's the important thing. It's about taking things seriously. It's about doing something about racial protection. It's about doing something about the county road network – taking back some of the roads that the red-greens transferred to the county municipalities in 2010 and which are voiced by politicians from the same red-green parties around the counties. The excuse is that you don't get money from the state. The Progress Party was opposed to that reform, and that is why we want to take these ways back and spend money doing it. In addition, we are clear that we want to transfer several roads to New Roads. But unlike the government – which is adding eleven new projects, expanding the number of years and not telling anything about when to be done – we are clear that we are willing to spend more money, because it means so much around the country, just like we do when it comes to railways. Unlike the Workers' Party, which says they're going to expand by 2033, we're honest that we can't expand full intercity by 2033, but we're willing to spend 40 billion. kr and not 2 br. kr, and there's a big difference. It's about what you actually want, and what you want to give priority to. Then we suggest removing the urban growth agreements in the shape that they now have. We believe that there should be a grant scheme. We're also adding money to the Goods package, 20 billion. kr. It also means a lot to the railway. That means a lot to rail in North Norway. That means a lot to the railway in Trøndelag. It means a lot to the railway in Eastfold. It means a lot to the railways in the interior, and it means a lot to the railways in Telemark. Since I am telemarking, I think the timber terminal at Nordagutu is an amazing project – I had to bring it with me when I first came here. Then I want to say something about some of the projects that the government has not been able to find room for. First of all, after the Progress Party had presented its national transport plan, the government presented some projects contained in the proposals of the Progress Party. That might not be so strange, because on Strynefellet, there was an action, and people were clear and quite mad because you hadn't found money for this. The Klauvaneset–Wågsbotn outside Bergen is a stretch that the Progress Party has been clear that we have to bring, and for which the government has suddenly found some money, but they have not fully financed it. That's a little bit of a difference. As far as Valdres is concerned, where I believe many of the members of the Committee have been, you are able from the Labour Party and the Centre Party to write comments and say that you want to spend money. Tomorrow they'll have the opportunity to join. There is a single proposal in Stortinget which follows up the proposal of the Central Party. It doesn't help with notes. That has to be done properly, and that is why it has to be voted on. This is a project on the only completely winter-proof road across the mountain. There's an annual traffic of 11,000 cars there for periods. The road passes through the center – there are many pedestrian crossings – and it divides the center into two. In the last period – and that is where I challenge the government – we told them that it has to reduce costs, that it does that job, takes that job, makes sure that costs are reduced, and then the government does not come up with the proposal in the national transport plan. The Labour Party and the Center Party have said that they want the road – yes, tomorrow they have the chance to vote in favour. Riksvej 4 from Raufoss to Oslo is a crazy important stretch. It means a lot to the companies that are there. It means a lot to large parts of the country that drive that way. So you say, no, we can't. The representative Johnsen and I, along with others from the Advancement Party, met the industrial park at Raufoss. What they were very clear and clear about was that we now have to make sure to get this way because they operate and export and are in world competition every day and are going to win the competition against all other companies in the world. Then the road is important. Over 50 pst. was clear that the road is the most important one, it is more important than other framework conditions. At Raufoss they translate for approx. 10 B.C.E. kr, total on the distance for nearly 70 billion. kr. It will cost approx. 20 B.C.E. And then we sit here and say, "No, we can't afford that, and it's irresponsible to say that." It's about – and it should be the Senterpartiet – seeing in the field now, and then we can harvest in the future, and then we can reap a lot, much more because we have companies that deliver, that are good, that can compete, and that can create jobs, secure jobs. That's what this is about. E134 Bakka–Solheim was not in there. So the government parties knew – because there was a lot of trouble, and I'm glad – that you have to put some money in. So you put something in the first six-year period. But we have to build that road – it's really important for those who live there. Or let's make sure we get the Haukeli tunnel built, which has been inside the National Transport Plan repeatedly, but you can't deliver, and now the government took it out – or there's nothing inside. That's too bad. The Labour Party and the Center Party are in favour – well, tomorrow they can vote in favour, so we can get something on the E134 that matters. Ilgsjö-Gvammen in Telemark, as I know well, is a very important stretch. Make sure that we get those planning tools in place so that they can move forward – that's what this is all about. This is about creating, and it's about being safe and secure for people living around. A little earlier today, when we were on the outside here, it was the E6 Oslo East. Then there was a demonstration. It was almost embarrassing to hear all those who said that this project is for you. There's someone down here in the city council who doesn't want to, and there's someone on the pulpit here who said they're really in favour, and that they've been working for many years, but they won't press the yes button tomorrow, unless they can change their mind from today to tomorrow. Those who stood down expect politicians to overrun the City Council and make sure we build that way. It's about the quality of life of the people who live there and the people who go to school there. As I said, Intercity is about the will to do it, and the Progress Party has it. In the case of the Westfold Railway, I have to, when the Workers' Party has 2 billion. kr, a reminder that only Stokke – Torp – Sandefjord costs 10 billion. kr – 10 br. kr – and then you have to build up full intercity by 2033. Then you talk about other people being unaccountable and irresponsible. It's a ball game. But luckily today we're going to drive at 120 km/h – or at least open so we can drive at 120 km/h. This will be done by the Progress Party in the transport policy. We'd like to have 130 km/h too, but now it's 120 km/h on some distances. It should be 120 km/h on the extension as well. It deserves all those around the country who are disappointed, for example. because the Vikaberg has not come in either. It's an important project that matters to people in their everyday lives. It's about security. It's about security, and it's about transparency in winter time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1508	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1515	Hoksrud shall have for enthusiasm for the road, but it is little with enthusiasm for the coast, which is located outside of us, and which is our maritime route. I think it was mentioned in one word. The Labour Party notes that, over the first seven years of its work, the government has not proposed an increase of the same level as for other coastal and coastal transport areas. We have also pointed that out in our comments on the national transport plan. Does the Progress Party agree with that description? And if not, where can the Progress Party specifically point to coastal bets in the last seven years – when the Progress Party had the Transport Ministers?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1520	It's funny that the representative says we don't have anything on the coast. Then I think you have to go back and read the story again, read our proposal for a national transport plan, read what's in the committee now. In fact, we have quite a number of coastal projects, which are part of the national transport plan. And then we have 1 billion. kr more to re-establish the maturity, the maintenance run on the coast. I would also like to remind you that, together with the government, we made a good solution for the Hurtigruten, which is now important in the context of the budget and revised. It's very good, and it was important. What the representative says is not correct. We're busy with all the modes of transport, but I've also challenged the coastal industry to be a little bit tougher on their demands, because they probably haven't been the same as some others, and there we have a job to do together. But we've added 1 billion. NOK to take back the due date that is there. We have also challenged the Council of State with a question: how big is the maintenance due? We have not received a clear and clear answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1527	I recorded that I did not get an answer to what I asked for. For I asked about the seven years when you contributed to the downfall. The fishing ports have been transferred to the counties, but there has been insufficient funding to enable them to operate. Four counties have not yet signed. This situation has arisen as a result of the handling of a FrP State Council and is a complete negation of coastal needs. I am very surprised to read the position and proposals of the Progress Party in which they propose money to many fishing ports, which Hoksrud boasted in his previous reply. Why did the government transfer the fishing ports to the county municipalities with a government council from the Progress Party, leading to a long period of delay in planning and developing coastal fishing ports?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1535	Now it is the case that the county councils have received much more money than they received when the red-greens were heading, and we believe that it was reasonable to give up this responsibility, and have thought that it made sense. But in our proposal for a national transport plan, we have spent money on several important fishing ports, and that is, of course, because we listen to our people and what they are busy about, and then we spend money. But I think it's funny when the Workers' Party talks about promises and not delivering, when we see the Workers' Party's proposal for the National Transport Plan, which is actually a lot of customsball, when you see that there are lots of projects that aren't a single penny to realize. The progress party has actually invested money – and gets the hell out of us because we're spending money. But we live very well with that. We're busy spending money on transportation, because it means so much in everyday life to people, and it's about safety and security and good roads and railways.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1542	The President would remind the representative Hoksrud that we should talk about each other's policies with greater dignity than using the word 'customs ball'.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1547	I have cooperated with the Progress Party both in state policy and elsewhere, and I know them well. They are for the measures, but for the financing. They've always been, and it's been accepted that the rest of us have taken the noise when they get the projects through. They themselves had to introduce and use 29 pst. in tolls for road projects when they were in government, and they know that if this majority continues to rule, they must compromise on a number of things, among other things. on this. But is it that tolls are more important than projects? When the Progress Party now talks about E6 in Oslo east, that is, the Manglerud Tunnel, that it should be built, I remember the E18 West Corridor, where they voted against the project because they did not agree with either the financing or the project. Is it that we can now expect that the Progress Party will not vote for projects where part of it is toll-financed?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1554	I wonder if the representative is doing a bit of a bombing now, because I think we voted in favour of the project, but we were against funding with tolls. The challenge with the West Corridor is that that project is piggy, and you get a lower capacity on the road than the capacity you had. And so it's like, unlike the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left, the Progress Party is very clear that we want to build a road, we want to build a road without tolls, and that's possible. It's about using the money to step CO 2 in a hole in the North Sea to 50 billion. kr, whether they are to be used for other symbolic climate measures, or whether they are to be used, for example. on transport, which may also mean much to the climate and reduce emissions. Good roads and less queues are very good, and that is quite possible. Then vote for the E6 Oslo East tomorrow!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1562	I can only say in the beginning that the proposals that Hoksrud invites include: The centre party to vote for, we have promoted in Stortinget, we too, and we are going to promote the proposals that we have made and have fully financed. We've done that within the limits of 5 billion. kr – and not 400 brd. kr, as the Progress Party has done. The government’s proposal for NTP is based on the work of two transport ministers since 2013. Progress Party transport politicians at Stortinget present an alternative NTP where 400 billion will be used. kr more than in the government proposal. What are today's transport politicians at Stortinget from the Progress Party who have understood as former Minister of Finance Siv Jensen, former Minister of Transport Ketil Solvik-Olsen and former Minister of Transport Jon Georg Dale did not understand, or did not understand at the time?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1569	I was glad that I got that question. I believe that the Permanent Spring should go back and see what the Progress Party promoted in 2013 in the National Transport Plan, as applicable from 2014, and what Ketil Solvik-Olsen promoted for Stortinget in 2017. So it was a huge increase, from approx. 608 B.C.E. kr to over 10063 brd. kr. It shows that with the Progress Party in the Ministry of Transport it was “good for”, when it was really tired. When the Progress Party went out of government, it was 26 billion. kr less to the national road network of the government currently in office. We also saw that in some of the first state budgets that came, there was less money going on. The Progress Party managed to lift up again, so it became more. We were also able to show that this year we have reduced the toll by 2.7 billion. kr. It shows that it is possible – it is about political will. The party of progress has that will. The progress party will, and we're willing to bet more on transportation. What's a shame is that the Center Party will not vote for the individual proposals that would mean a difference for the E16 Ferne's South Hand.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1576	So easy it must be to be a FrP! So fantastically easy. It's like being at a party, an uphill party, drinking with good friends, knowing the rush comes, and then you don't think of dangerous clouds, on the blue-man day the next – not at all in this Progress Party! I have to ask the representative Hoksrud about something I have wondered about for a long time. The Progress Party is consistently out of joint comments on environmental issues, where it says something about climate change. They consistently leave that sentence. Does this mean that the Progress Party does not regard the man-made climate change as serious, or that they are at all man-made? Or does that mean that the transport sector, which is responsible for one third of emissions, does not have a bearing on our planning? How is it possible to turn your back on two international panels under the umbrella of the United Nations?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1583	The President would say that this is a party that seems to last a long time today, at least!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1588	Yes, it's a big party, and this is wonderful! To the representative Nävra: that's how we want to use positive things, and I think the electric car shows that it's actually fully possible to do something without doing what SV and Nävra like to do, namely to impose and fly around with the whip and make it difficult for people. We rather think carrots are a much better solution, and it's about the will to do it. We therefore see some of the things that SV and others are very concerned about, for example. the zero growth target, that in the transport sector emissions decline because people choose new technologies. But we must not punish those who can't, those who have to pay tolls for petrol and diesel cars, and who can't afford to replace that car. That's the ones Arne Nävra and SV are out to punish as much as possible. It's not the Progress Party. We're more concerned with bringing the good carrots to make sure that people choose the good solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1597	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1602	First, I would like to thank the Committee on Cooperation in this important matter. National transport plan, NTP, is a case that municipalities, regional councils, county councils, business, NHO, LO and a number of other organisations and actors closely follow. Road, rail, ports, ferries, boats, airports, broadband and mobile networks connect the country, and the Center Party knows that this is an important part of everyday life for people and businesses. They need safe, efficient and environmentally friendly infrastructure. Our main objective is to ensure transport and communication services in a way that simplifies everyday life for people across the country and increases profitability and balances the conditions of competition for business by reducing distance constraints. The Central Party believes that the development and maintenance of roads, rail, ports and airports is a public responsibility and that the State must take the greatest financial responsibility. We will ensure the whole country's population access to mobile coverage, including along the tracks, and access to high-speed broadband, minimum 100 Mbit/s symmetrical broadband capacity. The centre party believes that upgrading the continuous routes north-south and east-west should be a high priority. In addition, we want to repair bottlenecks on the roads. The centre lot will develop new assessment criteria for what is an appropriate road standard. There are considerable differences in the quality of the road network in the country. In some places it's four-field road, in other places it lacks yellow stripe. For the Central Party, it is important to ensure that everyone has safe and secure roads, no matter where they live in the country. The central party believes that Norway’s network of fairways and ports must be fully exploited. We want the state to contribute to port development and maintenance of ports and fairways. The centre batch will move more of the freight from road to sea. This is an important part of the transition to a more environmentally friendly transport sector. The centre party will transfer the responsibility for the fishing ports from the county municipalities back to the state and collect the maintenance launch, and we will bet on the renewal of the short sea shipping. The centre party notes that the government parties do not have a majority behind this NTP but that the committee has given various majority comments, many of which give important signals for transport actions in due course. In the Central Party alternative NTP, the total frame is increased by 5 billion. kr. Four of these billions use the Center Party for an increased stake in the county roads, and we are so pleased that, after our repeated proposal for an increased stake, the bulk of the population now sees the need for this county road. These are important ways for people and business. Much of the export from this country begins its journey on a ferry and on a country road. The counties are evenly above good roads owners, and it is important that county roads now become simple and unbureaucratic. The 2017 Traffic Safety Development Report points to the 67 pst risk of being killed or severely damaged on the county road network. larger than on the national road network. The tunnel safety directive introduced for the county road network in 2014 has also contributed significantly to an increase in county county road network expenditure without a corresponding increase in the framework. The Centre Party has also chosen to specify more projects that we believe should be prioritised during the first and second periods. Instead of working on a priority list based on large undivided funds in the second period, the Centre Party has chosen to make a priority of several specific projects visible and thus to reduce something on the pot ‘unallocated funds’. As an alternative to the Centre Party, funds are still undistributed during the second period, so that the trades unions can work on new projects to the next roll-out of the NTP. We also record that the road projects we have prioritised are gradually prioritised by several. The centre party has spent money on projects that we believe must be prioritised, without any airlocks or spending more money than the government parties have done. I refer to the Central Party's own tables for the details of our priorities and I address all the proposals that the Centre Party has promoted, with others or alone. I also refer to the loose proposals that show which projects we want to prioritise and which have been delivered today – changes in relation to the government’s submitted NTP. In Case No. 34 – and now I'm jumping a little bit out of the centre party role, because there I am the case rapporteur – about increasing the allowed speed for mopeds and introducing a speed limit of 120 km/h on motorways, several suggestions have been made. The Committee's position on increasing the speed allowed for mopeds is that it is not adopted, but there are several proposals, and I refer to the proposal of the Central Party in case No. Thirty-four. With regard to the introduction of a speed limit of 120 km/h on motorways, the Committee decides to implement a test scheme. I also refer to the proposal of the Centre Party in case No. Thirty-two. So back to the NTP. I just wanted to make those suggestions, so it wasn't forgotten. Air routes are essential for people and businesses to emerge in a long-range country such as Norway. That was the background for the government's taking off the expansion of the short-haul network in the 1960s, and it's just as important today. Reduced charges and increased purchases of public air routes may allow for more departures and cheaper air tickets in District Norway. Unfortunately, in recent years the government’s tax increases have made it more difficult to maintain a good flight offer, and several flights have been closed. When it is cut in the route offer on the short-distance network, it is an important part of public transport in large parts of Norway that is affected. High prices for regional air tickets make it less attractive to live and work there and reduce the opportunities for citizens there to participate in the Norwegian community in the same way as everyone else. Especially in North Norway, good air services and the short-haul network are important, because the options are few or none. It is also necessary to invest in the development of zero-emission aeroplanes to ensure that this part of the collective offer is emission-free. The Northern Railway is still going on diesel, and with the large exceedances on the rail network, I do not see that it is going to happen with the first thing that there will be zero-emission trains on the Nordlandsbahn – unfortunately. The centre party has always warned against changes to the rules for taxis. We will continue to work for a serious, sustainable taxi industry that people can live on.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1633	The representative Siv Mossleth then brought up the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1640	The Labour Party and the Centre share many objectives in transport policy, as the Committee's position also shows, but on one point and in an important matter for the country we separate teams. Various governments have been working for several years to link Bergen and Stavanger more closely by making the road free, and those who launched the vision were the Center Party in the government. This is really to bet on the whole country and to ensure that Norway’s foremost export region is strengthened. In committee voting and in the Chamber, the Centre Party is now doing a turnaround and proposes that we wait until after 2033 with perhaps considering completing the free E39 in old Hordaland. My question is: Why does the Center Party propose to cut off an important road project in the West – Hordfast?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1647	The centre party is very concerned with district policy. We clearly see that investment in districts, including in the West, is investment in future value creation. I find it strange that the representative says that we are separating layers, because I had hoped and believed that the Workers' Party is also concerned with more district policy. Regional investment is, of course, direct investment for the acquisition of income, and the West, after all, exports a lot of important goods. The centre lot reduces funds slightly during the second period, but there is still a high amount of government funding for the project. I believe that the cost that the government has put in is higher than what can be accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1652	I record that the representative Mossleth – and, to the extent, the representative Myrli – showed that there is no majority behind the national transport plan. I could have asked this question to the representative Myrli, too, but I feel, from my perspective, that it is a fairly broad connection both to the main framework, such as plus/minus, and to the projects that are in the national transport plan. When the representative Mossleth claims that there is no majority, are there any projects in the National Transport Plan of the Centre to withdraw?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1657	Many of the projects within the national transport plan have been extended by people and businesses in different parts of the country and also by the Centre Party. It was just to be missing that many of these projects were not included. The centre party has submitted a number of other projects that we thought would definitely go back to, because the government has lost a good part of the important projects. Nevertheless, I see that the government parties now along the way have added 4 billion. kr and added more. But the biggest difference in the Central Party option is maybe that we want to spend more money on fishing ports, and that we want to spend a lot more on county roads. Our bet on county roads is $4 billion. kr more than the government announced. I note that the government parties have not increased that framework during committee procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1662	The representative Nävra felt that the NTP of the Progress Party was like a big party. I would say that the Central Party, the Workers' Party and the Government's NTP are definitely not a party, but reminds me more about Christmas Eve. I see the grandparents who come to their grandchildren and their children on Christmas Eve, and then they bring them beautiful, beautiful Christmas cards – such lovely, peasant romantic cards with dompapers and Christmas nyses and snow, but then they don't have gifts. Of course, the kids will then wonder where it's going to be of the gifts. It's nice to get a Christmas card, it's nice, but where are the gifts? I wonder a little bit about the beautiful words that I know the Center Party has in its NTP, among other things. beautiful words about rv. 4 and good notes as the Center Party and the Advance Party are together. Will the Center Party be involved in front of its own policies and actually make words of action and propose its own policies or will they just continue to wish good Christmas and good New Year without having any substance and any concrete suggestions that will result from, as we know the business needs, and as we know they are screaming for all along the Rv. 4, from Gjøvik to Gjølleråsen?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1669	I want to arrest the representative Johnsen's Christmas present. If we are to draw this equation to the submitted NTP of the Progress Party and to all the suggestions they have made, the Christmas gift of the Advance Party is like a heavy, pungent cardboard spoon – it is so big that it is as far as it is possible to carry it into the living room. And then, when you're going to unpack this package, you see that it's just glossy paper, that the contents are very small. But if we actually get to rv. 4, the Centre Party has also submitted proposals on Rv. 4, so it's covered.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1676	I wanted to ask the representative from the Center Party also about Hordfast, but with a slightly different angle than the representative Knutsen, because I think I see signs in the Center Party of a very nice development lately. History has not been around the world from an environmental point of view, for they have voted fairly evenly for four-field motorways instead of building safe district roads, racial protection, etc. But I now see trends in the Center Party that dress the Center Party much better, and I'm very pleased that perhaps more money is being spent on safe ways of use in the districts. I had hoped that my slogan would remain in the walls here when I gave myself: build far and safe and not wide and expensive. My question to the representative Mossleth is about the signals given by the Center Party on Hordfast, which means it's hard for the Center Party to swallow Hordfast when we get the nearest annual budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1683	If we think about the country as a whole and see which parts of the country lack yellow stripe, it's North Norway and the West that have the longest road sections without yellow stripe. It is important to put in place safe roads also in the north and west and in the districts. When we go directly to Hordfast, there's still a high amount of government funds that the Center Party supports in this project. We want to give priority to starting the crossing of Langenuen in the south between Jektevik and Hodnanes, but we believe that the cost that the government has put in is higher than what can be accepted. But it's an important distance. It lacks yellow stripe in many places and is exposed to racial hazard, and we believe this is important to give priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1688	The railway is better than it was before. There are several departures, faster travel time and newer trains. From 2012 to 2019, the number of train passengers increased from 62 million to 80 million. This comes not only from the fact that the Left and the Government have doubled the allocations to the railway since 2013, but also from the fact that we have implemented a reform that has given more professional management and a train offer to companies that place passenger needs in the centre. Then we hear from the opposition that you want to reverse this train bet. That the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party will, from an ideological point of view, do so now, but that the Centre Party agrees that there should be government employment of all those working within the railway, does not clothe the Centre Party. My question is what the Central Party will do to develop the railway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1695	The representative Gunnes says that the railway has become so much better. In the area I use to take the train, the railway hasn't gotten any better. We don't have mobile coverage, we don't have net coverage, there's no working on the train, and we're asking for more regional commuter – the Salt Pendle, the Helgelands commuter. I don't see anything in the railway that I use to take, the Northern Railway, that's getting better. I do not even see that there are any rapid plans for zero-emission solutions on the Nordlandsbahn, nor do I see any further plans for the Fauske and Nordover railway. But we see that it's been a director's bonus. We have received very many good and large management salaries and a cost increase completely out of control after the split.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1701	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1706	There are in particular two areas SV are both concerned about, and we believe that the plan should have reflected. One is that important infrastructure should be owned and operated by the public, not by a profit motive, private interests and New Public Management, to which the government is increasingly giving up. I will come back to this point in a later article. The second area is what the key role our transport policy can play in responding to warnings we have received from two highly skilled international scientific panels: the Climate Panel and the Natural Panel. Our choices in transport mean a great deal to our greenhouse gas emissions, as one third of emissions come from this sector. When the government sets itself a target of halving the sector’s emissions by 2030, it is compared with the 2005 level, not with the 1990 level, which is often done. Then this ambition would have been reduced to 35 pst. This doesn't take us to Paris with the honour left. Then we talk about the degradation of land, which is the main cause of the loss of natural diversity and the cultivation of land, especially because of the quadruple highways – it's probably been opened up about 500 kilometers of them up until now, and more are going to be. So how does the submitted big-time message, this NTP, respond to such a challenge? With almost nothing. Everything is in big moves like before. There are no total calculations of either emissions or land seizures. So this is going to happen with a plan for 2022 and forward for 12 years. Is that possible? So it's that easy to deal with the big environmental consequences and the crisis we're facing. SV has examined the message, and we have asked the Council of State a lot of questions about this. He answers in different ways, e.g.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘Emissions from land seizures and the installation phase are not included in the table.’ Or... ‘It is therefore not possible to indicate exactly what emissions and land seizures will be in the future.’ And in the case of emissions from material use: ‘We do not have an overview of these effects for the NTP projects for 2022-2033.’ When the Ministry first ordered the Environment Directorate and transport activities to estimate emissions from new projects, quite serious figures were made in December last year. The emissions resulting from land seizures were estimated to be within the range of 2 million to 4 million tonnes of CO 2 equivalent only from the projects they went through. We go on like before without knowing exactly what it means, just like that, and that's not good. The biggest problem with the whole NTP that has been presented is that you don't take this in. Questions about land seizures and emissions will be taken seriously in the future, as stated by the Council of State and in the message. Yeah, it's so wise there. ‘The most effective measure to reduce the emissions of land use seizures is to reduce the land catchment of the projects.’ Yes, so true, so true. That's the most important thing we can do, but what does the government do? To get the same color on the road between Oslo and Stavanger, for example, there must be four fields all the way, whether you need it or not. It's probably enough to mention the last terrible example, E18 Dørdal–Tvedestrand, which I've brought up here from the pulpit many times, where you build a four-field highway next to a quite new two- and three-field road built a few years ago. Is that possible? Actually, it is. I have taken up many times here from the pulpit how the government's highway plan, signed the speedy Progress Party government councils in the department, has led to the overinvestment of the times in motorways and huge performance projects, such as ferry-free E39 to up to 200 billion. kr only for the fjord crossings. When the government signals such an arrogance in terms of emissions and land seizures of new, huge motorway projects, we in practice turn our backs on both of the two science panels that I mentioned at the outset. In SV we move in our alternative transport plan large sums, over 100 billion. kr, from the major motorway projects to the railways and to racial protection, rehabilitation and maintenance of the rural roads. I repeat my slogan: we are going to build far and safe, not wide and expensive. At the same time, today we are also dealing with the Greens' document 8:194 S on safe and child-friendly transport and clean air in cities and agglomerations. This proposal for a representative, for which I am also the rapporteur-in-Office, was adopted in the same way as this, and we will give an explanation of vote on how we stand on it. I take up all the suggestions that SV is behind. I draw proposal No. 14, since we have put in a slightly modified proposal no. 314 as resolved proposal by the SV and the Senterpartiet.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1763	The representative Arne Nävra then addressed the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1770	The coast has been lowered by the government parties and the Progress Party in transport policy during this period of government. Hardly 3 pst. the total envelope for the upcoming NTP has been proposed for infrastructure actions along the coast. This is far from the ambition of the government to transfer 30 pst. of goods transported over 300 km from road to sea and rail by 2030. A review of the last three NTPs, carried out by Menon Economics on behalf of Norske Havner, the Shipowners’ Association and the Coastal Territories, demonstrates that since 2014, maritime transport has consistently been allocated less over the State budget than the agreed framework of the NTP. The national audit also criticises the government in its document that the objective of transporting freight by road to sea and by rail has not been achieved. The government has also been criticised in this report for not being able to strengthen the competitiveness of maritime transport. What will SV do to get more freight from road to rail and sea?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1779	I thank you for the question. What the representative says is absolutely correct, and to a large extent it is in the budgetary procedures of each harvest. These are own budget lines for support both for rail and for the coast and for ports, and I think these are the posts we have to look at. And if we're going to be able to separate the clint from the wheat, to use that expression, to separate party speeches and seriousness, we have to look at the party's position on those budget lines. SV is now moving over 1 billion. kr per year over to the coast, i.e. over 12 billion. kr during the 12 year period, and we finance it, among other things. with extracts from the motorways, as said from the intercom. So it's an important grip. As far as the railway is concerned, we have support schemes. SV wants them to increase, and we also want to look at possible charges on goods on rubber wheels over long distances, as many other countries have.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1784	Another issue is environmentally friendly transport and rail. I come from a part of the country where the railway goes by diesel train, and so far it seems that it can take a while before you get a solution to it. It can be seen that there are also large emissions in the national context and a huge gain by doing something about it. I record that SV in its NTP also opens up the possibility that some sections can be tested with hydrogen. Is the Nordlandsbanen one of the sections that SV is looking at? Could it be a stretch that is suitable for hydrogen?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1791	I thank you for the question. It's a very exciting question that we've been dealing with for a very long time, ever since the Transport Committee was visiting Germany. There we saw hydrogen-powered trains – which were not just pilots, but they were in full operation in Northern Germany. Think about it! I came home, bursting with joy, and there were stars in the eyes of everyone in the committee, and then, in my naiveness, I proposed a Document 8 proposal on a hydrogen train pilot project, and it was downcast. But we're going to travel it again, and we're now proposing no geographical attachment of it, there has to be some diesel section where it's appropriate. The Nordlandsbane can be suitable, not least because there is access to hydrogen, pure hydrogen; we have plants, Glomfjord etc., not so far away. So, that's one of the distances we're evaluating. We also thought about the Raumaban, and we thought about other sections where it might be appropriate. It is worthwhile to see this in conjunction with the development of so-called hubs also for heavy transport in the area.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1796	SV is, as we hear, strongly opposed to the development of large four-field motorway projects such as E18, E6 and E39 and led to drastic cuts in the main road sections of its proposal to the national transport plan. At the same time, SV is concerned about progress in the E134 Dagslett-E18 development plans, the link there, a four-field road project in Lier in Buskerud. So concerned was the SV representative Arne Nävra that in the spring of 2019 he asked written questions to the Minister for Transport where he asked for further progress in the start-up of this project. What is the reason why this particular project is SV positive to, while in other corresponding projects SV wants to have two and three field paths? Is it because the representative Nävra has good knowledge and closeness to the challenges of today's situation on this route?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1801	Thank you for the question. Yes, I know the experience around that distance, I've gone there. It is a road linking the East and the West. It's a road that has 18 000 ÅDT and goes through a residential area. SV has, as far as I know, never voted against a road being set outside a densely populated area in order to improve the situation of that site. This question was also asked to me last, by the same representative. It was not four years ago, it was during the budgetary procedure, I believe. And I answered the same thing. Had we been able to choose anything else, if a State Council had made a proposal on the two- and three-field route and estimated how much it would cost with escape routes, etc., we would have definitely assessed it. We decided to promote our own proposal on this, but it will postpone the matter very much. We also see that there are EU requirements with regard to escape routes, and then it may not be so much to win by going in for two or three-field roads there – otherwise we would have gone in for it, I promise you.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1808	SV's fanaticism against the drivers and highways is what makes you have to build motorways several times, because you build too poorly when you do it. If SV had supported the good proposals instead, it might have been possible to avoid building a new Dørdal-Tvedestrand, or to have released a new Grenlandsbru via Porsgrund municipality to Langangen. But then SV was as fanatical as they are now, and they're against any road construction. That's a shame, because then you wouldn't have used a lot of land that you have to do now because you wouldn't build properly that time. Then, in addition, the representative Arne Nävra will put a barrage of tolls in the back pocket of the poor drivers who are already paying tolls on those roads to pay large parts of the railway network. Is there no limit to what SV believes the drivers have to pay? You want to give them a worse road or no new highway at all, and then they're going to get a bag of tolls that they have to pay to drive on the bad roads – and stand in line. It's bad for the environment, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1816	I thank you for an excellent question from the representative of Hoksrud. SV has now proposed that we set a limit of 15 000 ÅDT before the requirement for quadruple motorways enters. This is because countries like Sweden have up to 20,000 before it enters with four-field motorways. Germany, almost the home country of the car, has up to 25 000 before it strikes. How is it possible that we have a Donald Duck policy – apologies for it – that we should be the greatest on this? This is a strange phenomenon. That's my most important answer. Think if we had built the railroad first in the same corridors, I have to say to Hoksrud, the railway first, and that we might have been tricked into the situation we've been in with the pandemic, and it obviously has to be new travel habits and new work habits, and see that maybe the traffic base isn't there. Maybe it just goes down 10 pst, but 10 pst. in transport planning, mass. So that means that Hoksrud's predictions can also change. If we had done it – rail – and taken into account the new forecasts, we would not have had the highways that Hoksrud enjoys.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1823	The President asks the representative, Mr Nävra, to remember that he will also address the President in the change of line. Now he has escaped for three rounds – so here, but no longer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1828	SV is happy in the railway, we know that, and it is also the representative Nävra. They say that they will maintain the requirement for dual-track intercity, both internal and external, and it will continue to be put on the railway during this NTP period. What is the level of ambition for the development of intercity, and when should this be in place? I might be a little bit concrete on one of the distances. When should there be opportunities for two trains per hour from Lillehammer? When shall it be possible to have double-track parcels in place? And how much money is SV willing to put in the pot to get to this ambition?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1835	I thank you for this question too, which goes straight into my heart. It's now that we're transferring $96 billion. kr to the railway in our alternative arrangement – $96 billion. kr. It helps a good part, and at least there's some honesty in SV, we're trying to find coverage for the means we're transferring. It's a bunch of parties that don't have it on their heads. We'll find cover. 96 B.C.E. kr, i.e. That's 8 billion. kr per year. It helps a lot on the way. We want to maintain the old objective of former NTPs. That is, by the end of the planning period now, we should have outer intercity in place. We also look at other sources of income, because we see that it's expensive to build a railway. But it takes a long time, it's almost eternal values, and it's environmentally very sensible in the long term. So we're looking at the possibility of charging freight, we're also looking at the possibility of a ten for trains, into the big cities, which can finance the railways. For marine SV's large grip in the budget may not be enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1842	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1847	Next to the pandemic that still hangs, the climate is the greatest challenge of our time. Transport systems globally and nationally can contribute to the reduction of excessive CO 2 emissions. Our obligations in the Paris Agreement must be fulfilled, and therefore we must address the problem areas to a greater extent than we do today. It does not help to say that we should go from car to rail and sea, from aircraft to fast trains: road traffic, rail, the marine sector and air traffic must be electrified. Whether the energy carrier is overhead line, battery or hydrogen, is not obvious, but the future is electrical. We do not reach all of this transport plan, within the next twelve-year period. But the objectives and obligations of the Paris Agreement by 2050 are clear. When even NATO's summit today determines the need for all moving war materials to have the same objective, we realize that it is serious. The left has high goals in the NTP, and we really need to thank our government partners Right and Christian People's Party for a good process, good dialogues and transfer of competences, and not least for our clear priorities. Today, portfolio management, outsourcing, role-sharing, and not least the results to be measured, are very important. For example, we have to. know that the zero growth target for urban cars works by measuring the number of cars on the road or by interviewing citizens about their transport patterns. If we don't meet the targets, we have to put in action. It's as simple as we have to have both whip and carrot. The medium-sized cities came out of this NTP very well. The left and government have gone in to help more cities than before. More public transport and more pedestrian and cycle routes are important for medium-sized cities, and the range of urban growth agreements increases the investment in medium-sized cities. The goal is better cities with green, climate-friendly growth. The new agreements are good news for Kristiansand, for Fredrikstad and Sarpsborg, for Grenland, for Tromsø and for the Drammen area. In addition, a new grant scheme shall allocate 600 million. SEK over four years for such projects in Bodø, Ålesund, Haugesund, Arendal/Grimstad and Vestfoldbyen, i.e. Tønsberg, Sandefjord and Larvik. The agreements with the metropolitan cities of Oslo, Bergen, Trondheim and Stavanger are still very much under way. For example, there will be a lot of money for urban railway construction in Bergen and T-Bahn construction in Oslo. The government presented a good transport plan on 19 March. The plan has become even better after we have dealt with it in Stortinget. In particular, there is one area that needed a clearer priority, and it was industrial traffic – heavy goods vehicles. A dead road in Troms, in the Lavang valley, should have its middle parts. We have a drop-down bridge in the Drammen that serves the port area and not least the area where all the electric cars come in. The stryne mountain has bad tunnels and racial areas and is frequented by fifty-ton freight cars throughout the day and the whole year. In addition, we want to give priority to the bypass outside of Bergen, which today has endless queues, and a derailment of E14 from E6 that goes through Tøndelag. The E14 from Stjørdal to the Swedish border is in poor condition and has been exposed to many road accidents. In addition, it is important that we get ahead of freight terminal development in Trondheim with a new uniform solution to the Heggstadmoen, and that we get a timber terminal on Kongswinger. A number of such nutritional measures need to be put in place. There is still more than 1000 km of highway that does not have a yellow middle stripe in Norway, because the road width is too narrow. Such a stretch is in Rogaland on E134 between Bakka and Solheim. That is why we have now given priority to this road section, so that heavy goods vehicles will have a forward-looking solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1867	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1872	The left is a champion of the railway reform. In recent weeks we have been able to read in the media about great dissatisfaction and bad experiences for customers, and employees who experience that their environment of competence is being powdered. Skilled staff in operation and maintenance have been terminated. Those who are left have less influence on their working day, unclear orders and no one who takes responsibility for the whole and the practical tasks. One is more concerned with writing hours and deviations than with solving problems, they say. What does the representative say to the desperate staff who experience that their competence is no longer desired?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1879	It is clear that passengers have had a fantastic development in the railway sector. There's a lot more people who spend it, 62 million in 2012 and now more than 80 million. The ambition of the left is that we're going to reach 100 million pretty soon. It's really obvious that we, for example, on the Trunder Railway, which will receive half-hourly departures, may increase from 1.5 million passengers today to 3 million. Then it's defining the responsibilities of these different companies. Once again, train tickets are being sold all over the country. And Bane NOR makes it easier for operators to run properly. In addition, Norwegian trains are purchasers of the train sets.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1886	I do not experience an answer to what the Left would say to the employees of the railway and the situation for them. But we can agree that it is desirable for the number of travellers to increase, perhaps especially in the Trondelag, for our part. Two trains per hour are signed in the urban growth agreement. Both the Mid-Norway and SJ Railway Forums say that they do not keep the 14 new train sets that have been ordered. They either want the old diesel trains to continue running, or they want new ones to be ordered, and we know that it will take five years from us to order new trains until they are ready for operation on the railway. My question is: what do the Left think we should do to ensure that the urban growth agreement with two trains per hour is complied with?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1895	I think we're going to be able to keep those promises. What delights me is that these train sets are to be launched in Trøndelag now in June. They're coming now, and it's going to be amazing, instead of the old sets. They are twice as big and have much more comfort. Of course, we have to deal with Melhus – Stjørdal, which is the first half-hour target. It's the government and the government's great ambition to do this. And then, of course, we're going all the way to Steinkjer with a half-hour frequency. I believe the potential of this route is very great, and the new train sets can certainly be supplemented. For example, the Meråkerbahn must: electrified, so that there is electric train running.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1901	Just a few hours ago, Gunnes and Elvestuen and I were on the outside talking to the action group and the people who live on Manglerud, who are concerned that you have to put the Mangle OUT Tunnel in place. There, the left said they were very good for the Manglerut Tunnel. That's why I want to challenge now. Will the Left support what is contained as a separate proposal being voted on, namely: ‘The Government requests priority to the E6 Oslo East project for the first six-year period, given local commitment to the project after 2023.’ So that means if there's a change in Oslo -- we have another proposal, which is a little clearer and clearer. But if you're going to mean something about what you stood out here and just said a few hours ago to the people who stand there and are concerned about noise and local pollution, which I think the Left is concerned about, are you going to support that proposal now and make sure they don't have to wait for decades before you do anything? Because there is a majority in the Great Britain to implement if the Left and the other government parties will.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1911	I've been working on urban environmental agreements. In Trondheim, it was clear that it was actually the city's politicians, the locals, who took the initiative to get both road construction and new collective action. It must be a local anchoring if this is to be a really good project, and that is what is missing. The left is not in the City Council in Oslo, but we have a clear wish all the time. In two years' time, there will be elections again, and we want Oslo to really go into this Mangleut tunnel. But we are not going to vote in favour of the proposal by the Progress Party now. We are going to vote in full for our proposal, which is a good and priority proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1916	A lot of money is being spent on improving public transport in the largest cities. There is a lot of money being put into urban growth agreements. The projects have a high degree of implementation, and that's good, and the government, with the Left in the head, is willing to spend even more money with an increasing government funding share. The centre party believes it is important to ensure better public transport throughout the country. The centre party therefore wants several so-called urban regions to benefit from the money used for public transport/urban growth agreements. In concrete terms, in the NTP, we mentioned Mjøsbyen and Inherredsbyen as possible urban regions that should be able to make changes in this money. We're actually just writing that note. Why will the Left not support such initiatives?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1923	I have also seen that there has been a great deal of interest in urban agreements both in Mjøsbyen and in Inherred. Then I have received a letter from the county food rapporteur in Trøndelag. He's from the Center Party. He says, yes, we also want that kind of money, but we don't want to impose tolls – we're against that. The left has faith that there are a lot of different projects that lead us to meet the zero growth targets. One of them is actually that we have traffic control measures with tolls, both to finance and to reduce traffic in the urban area, because it must be the whole purpose, that we also reach the zero growth target. You make a commitment. It's whip and carrot.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1928	The electrification of the Trønderbanen was a very important matter in the 2017 election campaign. And President, it's probably more than the undersigned and the president who's lost the number of soft cakes Gunnes' representative has eaten to celebrate that now there's going to be electrification on the Thrønderban. The intention was to electrify the Trønderbanen all the way from Trondheim to Steinkjer and up to Storlien. Now it is possible to electrify only until Stjørdal and up to Storlien, but not to Steinkjer. There shall be bimodal trains running on diesel the rest of the stretch to Steinkjer. My question to Gunnes' representative is: why has the Left given up the fight for full electrification of the entire Trønderbanen?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1933	I guess it's happened more on the Thrønderbahn in the last four years than the 40 years before that. Let's do it a little bit and divide it. The meråker track up to Storlien is now electrified. It was a priority in the agreements that have been made with Swedish actors as well. Then you found out that there are actually bimodal trains, so you can run something electrical and something with diesel for the time being, but you can replace them with a battery pack, so that you get electric all the way. It's very expensive, perhaps too expensive in relation to the option, which is now bringing the energy carrier on the train and exploiting it instead of hanging overhead lines everywhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1938	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1943	The transport plan we are debating today is an ambitious plan, yet realistic and well adapted to the needs we have in the transport sector over the next twelve years. We're facilitating increased mobility, but we're going to do it in a safe, environmentally friendly and efficient way. This is a plan with a clear rural profile that looks at the whole of Norway’s needs and that, within the economic framework we are building, helps to solve people’s transport challenges. We approach the climate targets and take another long step towards approaching the zero-killed and hard-damaged vision in traffic. We promised an ambitious and realistic transport plan. It is such a plan that we have delivered. The Christian People's Party has been a proponent of putting in place Barna's transport plan. It became part of the NTP for the first time in 2017. This time it's in place with dedicated funds of 500 million. kr in the first six-year period, which shall benefit children and young people in particular. Yes, so important is Barna’s transport plan in the NTP that the front page is decorated with important transport challenges with children’s eyes. Safe school roads are central to the establishment of heart zones around schools, which invite more bikes and walks safely. Strengthening traffic training is necessary from an early age in order to create healthy attitudes and safe traffic behaviour from childhood onwards. We want to play on teams with Safe Traffic and other actors that have an important role in the work on road safety campaigns and various training tools to approach the zero vision target. The Christian People's Party and the government have high ambitions for road safety. The zero vision, where no one is killed or seriously injured in traffic, when we do not without a significant commitment to road safety work. Fortunately, developments are going the right way, and we are offensively focusing on different measures to halve the number of deaths by 2030, with zero deaths by 2050. We are pleased that our county roads have for the first time entered the NTP with a completely new grant scheme. The increased investment shall contribute to the reduction of delays and, in addition to the ordinary resources, the county authorities themselves use on their own roads. The grant is distributed through an ear-marked system according to the size of the maintenance seat suspension. The counties themselves prioritise their needs on the basis of two main criteria: enlargement of housing and labour market regions and important economic pathways. Our county road network is a very important part of the transport system. With a total of 45 000 km, the county roads are important for people and jobs, not least in the districts. So it's very happy, and historically, that we've got a huge investment on county roads in this NTP with a new 18 billion. kr. It is indisputable that New Veger has been a great success. Although not all parties will realize this, the company has achieved an average of 19 pst. cost reduction in their projects. It means a little bit more for the money. The result has been so good that Nye Weier is now also able to try to develop the railway. The Ringerix Railway/E16 will be an important joint road and runway project, because we have reason to believe that it can be an offensive and efficient development. With the extended New Roads framework now being extended until 2041, we are contributing to a strong commitment to more coherent and efficient road development. Several urban areas face challenges with poor accessibility, air pollution and noise. The zero growth target for passenger transport is a well-established target in the major urban areas. Urban growth agreements continue with the aim of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, reducing queues and increasing the share of collective travellers, cycling and walking. This ambitious effort is now being extended from the four largest cities to the five second largest: Kristiansand, Buskerudbyen, Grenland, Lower Glomma and Tromsø. The State contributes reward funds to local actions and the operation of local public transport and small investments in collective, bicycle and gangways. It is a good and proper step in the right direction when urban growth agreements are extended to the second largest urban areas, which obliges both municipalities, counties and the state to facilitate the achievement of the long-term objectives. Also smaller urban areas are included in a new grant scheme: Bodø, Ålesund, Haugesund, Arendal, Grimstad and Vestfoldbyen. The grant should also contribute here to the promotion of public transport, bicycles and corridors. Otherwise, I refer you to the rapporteur's good review.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1966	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1971	In the Workers' Party, we are also very concerned in the NTP with combating social dumping and the unemployment society. The Christian People's Party often talks about families having freedom of choice in order to have a good family life. Working only when it is work to get, without regulated working hours, is called unemployable work. Does the representative of the Countess think that the dissolved Christian People's Party in government has contributed to the taxi industry, giving families the freedom of choice they hold so high?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1976	That was how ESA, in the last growing-up period, raised a case against Norway for our way of organising the taxi transport. We are concerned that we should have a taxi offer and a taxi market that should be a business path for those who run in the industry, that is important, but we also need to have a good offer for everyone, no matter which municipality you live in. That's why we've changed something about the permission requirement. However, the requirements for drivers remain important. We believe that we both have a system that benefits the districts, we have a more customer-friendly system, and we have also given the county councils the opportunity to grant exclusive rights in municipalities where there is no basis in the market for a satisfactory offer, nor for doing a good business.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1984	That was an answer, but it was an answer in which this representative and the Labour Party deeply disagree. ‘Taxi – everywhere, always’ is the pilot’s slogan. It can actually now be over, and who knows what kind of consequences this can have. The driving obligation has now been removed with new taxi legislation. Preparedness is important, and for the Workers' Party it is also important that individuals can feel safe. In the event of an assault, or when someone feels threatened, it is important that there is someone to help one away from the threat or to assist by calling for assistance from the police, fire services or ambulance. An app does not see that. How does the Christian People's Party perceive that this should be carried out on the emergency side at a time of day as it is not a shop to be on the road because it is not a customer?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1989	With the requirements we make for driving tickets in order to operate a taxi, and for the drivers to drive the taxi, we do not see that we have made any changes in this area that would ensure that safety and safety are not maintained in the same way as before. As mentioned, we also have an opportunity in those municipalities that do not have the same good customer base, to use the exclusive right model and to be able to award this. We believe that we have a taxi industry that has a slightly different framework. We believe that this is a framework that takes care of both the customer and the security and security of the business as well as the mechanisms and mechanisms that allow us to adapt this according to the kind of municipality and district in which this industry is run.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e1994	A new route from E39 to Spangereid is essential for industrial development and jobs in the region of flax. A new route from E18 to Arendal port is essential for industrial development and jobs in the Arendal region. That's why Agder NHO has promised it as its main concern in the NTP. The municipality, the municipality of Arendal and the municipality of Lindesne have done the same. These are projects of a total of 1 billion. kr as the government, where the Christian People's Party is, has not prioritised. What they've given priority, on the other hand, is 600 million. SEK to a reward scheme for smaller municipalities implementing bombing, inter alia. Arendal. Both the municipality of Grimstad, the municipality of Arendal and the municipality of Tvedestrand have said no to this, no later than 2019. So they don't want bombing or these rewards, but the Christian People's Party has backed it up anyway. My question to the Christian People's Party will then be: Who has chosen you to listen to when you have chosen to prioritise 600 million. kr in rewards for the Arendal region, which do not want them, rather than giving priority to important food routes that the whole region wants?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2001	With regard to the economic pathways that the representative mentions, these are important road projects that we hope and believe can be realised. But it is the Wee owner who is responsible for realising these, in this case the county. Just as they are responsible for higher education, they must also take responsibility for financing road sections. In this NTP — as opposed to former NTPs — the State has actually entered and opted to grant additional grants to the county municipalities. 18 B.C.E. kr has been added to the table over a 12-year period, which will also be a contribution the counties can make to priority sections which are important economic pathways. Of course, in terms of the funds now given to the smaller urban areas, it is up to the individual urban regions to decide whether they want to use them. We feel that this is a call from large parts of the country to get funds to strengthen public transport and bring down greenhouse gas emissions, and then it is up to the urban areas to decide whether they will use them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2008	The Christian People's Party and Councillor Hareide took over a transport sector with large costs. The government's reforms have led to a massive cost development on the road, but especially on the railways. I'm going to say that Stortinget has been set up a checkmate. Even SV is worried, even if they can add 90 billion. kr extra in relation to this NTP. The government has also set checkmate. We see that when we describe how railway development is going to be. At the latest, before the treatment of NTP, we had another blow on our face, in the form of 10 billion. kr in exceedances on the Eastfold Railway. Will the Christian People's Party support the proposal of the Centre Party for clearer responsibilities in the railway sector, so that we can get control of costs?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2015	First, I would like to stress my concern – which I fully share with the Permanentraune representative – about the significant cost figures we have received on the railways. It was a great surprise and a great disappointment that it happened, especially in the Eastfold area. I am aware that the government and the Council of State have now taken important steps to strengthen control, with better procedures and more quality assurance, so that one can get better planning and thus also better implementation of important railway projects in the future. We believe that the clearance made in connection with the rail reform was important. It was important to have a clearer division of responsibilities between management and those to be carried out. It was one of the main intentions behind the railway reform. Then things have to take some time – we haven't reached the goal yet, but we're on the right track.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2020	I think of the Christian People's Party as a party that in several contexts – at least verbally and in its programme – has good environmental thoughts. It's a party to talk to, at least outside the government, about environmental issues. The representative Countess has certainly noticed the road construction that is taking place on both sides of Kristiansand, both E18 southward and E39 westward, towards Stavanger. My question is whether the representative Gruvan is left with a little bad feeling when he sees what is happening, for example. on the E39 between Kristiansand and Stavanger – if he has driven that stretch recently – with the areas that go with the huge expansions. Could he imagine a more sobering expansion of our roads to two and three fields? I am absolutely sure that the representative Gruvan also knows about Dørdal–Tvedestrand, which I use as a scare example.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2025	I must probably disappoint Nävra by saying that I do not share his concern about, for example. E39 westward towards Stavanger, as he mentioned. I've lived along that road for enough years. This is actually one of the worst death routes we have in Norway, and I would like to stress the importance of better roads to improve road safety. That's where I think Nävra and I agree; we share that vision. Then one has to take important steps that are not good for just the next five to ten years. These are two regions that are increasingly linked as housing and labour market regions, and then we need to build roads that withstand growth and development for the next 10, 20, 30 and 50 years. That's why I think it's important that we now think in the long term, that we don't waste the money and make partial solutions that are going to be good for a few years, and then we have to start again. I think we need to think in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2030	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2035	The Green Party is presenting today its proposal for a green national transport plan, a ‘GreenNTP’, together with proposals for representatives on safe and child-friendly transport and clean air for cities and towns. Together with these proposals, we draw a very concrete picture of what Norwegian transport policy might look like if we were serious about halving emissions from the transport sector by 2030, and if we had taken on board that we have no more nature to destroy again – something that the setting does not do. In our alternative «GreenNTP» we begin with a chapter we have called «From word to action», for action is precisely both our children and grandchildren and poor people around the world demand in these times – action that requires willingness to give priority to genuine green mobility. Unlike some other parties' seemingly homeless car cultivation, we have re-prioritized within the same overall framework as the government has presented, but saves money compared to it. With our priorities, it's about spending money on much smarter, collective and climate-friendly transport solutions rather than just new motorways, because less road means more to public transport, road safety, bicycles and corridors. You don't have to go in the luxury trap to the Progress Party or to the drunken party, as the representative Nävra called it, to build modern infrastructure throughout the country. We just have to dry to re-prioritize. Some say that by saying no to the very largest road projects, we say no to safer roads, industrial development in districts and environmental improvements in cities. It's completely wrong, of course. On the contrary, that's precisely why we say no to these major road projects, because there are cheaper alternatives that cut emissions much faster and that make everyday life in cities simpler and, not least, safer – alternatives based on evidence-based knowledge. We know that motorways are many times more expensive than targeted road safety measures, such as lower speeds, middle parts, two- and three-field roads, the aim of which is to save as much life as possible in traffic. We also know that several motorways provide increased traffic to cities and greater pressures on urban living conditions, and that it undermines the enormous effort that has been made around the country to allow more people to travel collectively, walk or cycle. We also know that the biggest loser here is nature and climate. Some of the government's wildest road projects represent some of the largest and most dramatic interventions in Norwegian nature in modern times. The government's performance project Hordfast will burst through the archipelago of Os and the coastal rain forest of Tysnes. E6 will crush irreplaceable wetlands on Ringerijke, and the E6 motorway asphalts the Lowendella nature reserve at Lillehammer. We are many who are appalled by these interventions, which are also caused by new wind turbines in vulnerable rural areas, but is it not also time for us to look more critically at the irreparable damage that this government has both caused to Norwegian nature and to apply Norwegian nature over years with massive motorway expansion? The Greens believe that transport policy must be based on evidence-based knowledge and that we must act accordingly. The government has chosen to provide a transport plan that ignores well-documented negative effects of increasing road construction. Nor does the government seem to have taken on board the fact that the world is in the midst of a transport technological revolution – a development that allows massive investment in motorways to turn out to be quite wasted within a few years. At the same time, the government has failed to provide fully basic knowledge of the amount of greenhouse gas emissions that will result from the national transport plan. Nor does anyone know how much nature to cover the asphalt in the next 12 years. These are profoundly serious shortcomings in one of our main investment plans for the future. I would therefore like to end by thanking SV for promoting several of our proposals from the representative proposal, and I hope that several parties will join. The Green Party believes that «National motorway plan» must be sent back to the government and that NTP must be turned on its head. It is a transport plan which in 2021 is based on the transport planning of the past. This cannot be known by the Storting. With that, I will address the Greens' proposals to the Environment Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2056	The representative Per Espen Stoknes has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2064	I have read with interest the proposals from the Green Party to the National Transport Plan, over 100 pieces. A good piece of work is behind it. The Greens often say that one should cut out large road projects in cities and densely built districts. I think it is a little surprising for people that the Greens also propose to cut road construction in the districts. It seems like one is very skeptical about the E10 expansion in Lofoten, and one actually wants to scrape the E6 expansion through Sørfold in Northernland. I hope the Environment Party of the Greens has driven this road. There is a very poor standard road that absolutely needs an upgrade. The fact that the Green Party is proposing that this road be paved might be interesting to get a more detailed explanation of, so that's just my question to Stoknes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2071	The representative here reiterates the view that we should invest less on safe roads in the districts. Luckily, that's completely wrong. We're increasing by 11 billion. in addition to that proposed by the government of the NTP, to provide additional guarantees for the county roads. We're putting more money into racial and anti-slip protection than they have done, we're going to rebuild the highways in the big cities, and we're going for a natural-neutral and fossil-free expansion of new roads, combined with at least 10,000 high-speed trucks along the roads across the country, by 2025. This together provides a strong strengthening of road standards in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2076	Now my question was E6 through Sørfold, the project called E6 Megården-Mørsvikbotn. It wisely proposes that the Green Party should scrape – it says in one of the proposals. What may surprise you more is that the Green Party is proposing to stop one of the really big railway extensions, namely the Ringeriks Railway – Ringeriksbahnen, which can connect Hönefoss, Ringerikes, Hallingdal and so far the whole Bergensbanen faster to Oslo, and where we really have the opportunity to get more people to travel collectively into and out of the capital region. I now understand that the Green Party, if we are to take the proposals literally, will have a rematch on the trasé elections for the Ringerix Railway. My question is simply: how many years is the delay in the construction of the Ringeriksbanen, does the representative think we need to calculate if the Greens' proposals were to be adopted?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2083	I thank you for the question and stress that we are going for a strong commitment on the railway, for example. on intercity, with 20 billion. kr more to new train tunnel under Oslo and better punctuality to outer intercity. It will then be especially for Fredrikstad, Hamar and Porsgrund. We also go too much better punctuality and departures in the entire outer intercity area, with 41 billion. kr to new double tracks – instead of more motorways into Stavanger, Bergen, Trondheim – on Jærbanen, Vossebanen and Trønderbanen. And then we have 7 billion. kr in State aid for new high-speed trains in the direction of Stockholm and Gothenburg from Oslo. I mention this because we have a plan that is comprehensive and looks at the whole railway system as a whole, while the representative has dug himself into a single proposal, detached from the big picture, which is our core in «GreenNTP».
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2088	For me, the proposal by the Greens seems quite wild. I hear the argument, and it's good to build up intercity between Lillehammer, Porsgrund and Halden, but the Green Party is proposing, among other things. to stop and scrape the project E134 Saggrenda-Elgsjö. There's not much going on by rail, and there you drive from a highway and right on a bridge, which means you have to get down to 40 km/h from a really good highway. It's not just in the urban areas that the Green Party is going to cut out the road; it's actually raging the districts and making it even worse for people who live around the country. The Green Party actually has some votes in some of these places. I can't see it after this, so I'm glad we now know what the Green Party wants. I hope they're at least going to get votes in Telemark when people see what rage they want on the way, which means a lot to people all over Telemark.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2095	So, as I said instead, we're increasing our investment on safer roads and taking better care of the roads we have. We want to spend 423 billion. NOK in order to take better care of the roads, including SEK 11 billion. more to the county roads. That's why we cut and scale down 36 of the big ones – what to say – the wild-way projects that the Progress Party is trying to sell in as best they can. So we can re-prioritize 170 billion. kr for much more environmentally friendly transport and collective efforts. Because we're reducing the number of large road projects, tolls are also cut, which the Progress Party would like to increase, plus a total of 62 billion. kr. It is a halve of the government's proposals. Let's say 2 billion. for the introduction of climate-friendly and nature-neutral development, so that all new development projects become environmentally friendly.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2106	The President wants to inform us that she has registered that there are now intrusions, but the President has approved a number of lines, so now we are running the scheme that has been approved by me.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2111	For the Central Party, it is important to invest heavily in the railway sector. This is certainly the case for the Greens too. Now, the representative Myrli smeared a little bit away at the Ringerix Railway, and I assume that such issues will also arise when you are going to expand more railway and perhaps railway outside the inner and outer intercity circle. You have clearly outlined the attitudes you have toward motorways. Then my question after listening to the line change here is: What are the priorities of the Green Party for promoting the railways outside the big cities, outside the intercity areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2118	As I was going to say, we're going to increase by 174 billion. kr more for the railway. So we have a total of 567 billion. kr, i.e. half the NTP for trains. In this it is quite right, as the representative has captured, that we give particular priority to the intercity deployment and connection of Norway to Stockholm and Gothenburg. We're going to build the North Norwegian Railway, and it's 30 billion. kr to get started there. In addition, we're going to cut the travel time by 1.5 hours from Oslo to Bergen, Trondheim and Stavanger, and we're going to make 18 billion. kr to connect the Southern Railway to the Westfold Railway. How the Center Party makes this a section of the railroad in the districts, to me, is a mystery.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2123	It goes a little bit on the same track, it's clear, when the Green Party goes out and announces 36 road projects that they don't want, and says they're going to scrap them for the benefit of rail development. The left is really the railway party. We have a great desire for the railway to develop, but it cannot be anywhere. We have heard several examples from replicators now that it is difficult to get a better living and working environment on, for example. The West. There's no railway there, and I don't think the Green Party is going to start building completely new railway lines everywhere, even though the Genist calculator is a nice arrangement. Is it, then, that the Green Party does not at all assess whether there are any of these 36 ways that are really needed, for example. for commercial traffic?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2137	The main concept of the Green Party is that we see how we can achieve an efficient transport system without increasing motorway and car capacity. When we move investment from the major road projects, which are very toll-intensive, to collective investment, which includes rail, but also bus, and electrification of the existing road sections that are not available with charging stations, etc., you get a lot more security, because we give priority to race safety, maintenance and road safety along all national and county roads instead of spending billions of billions on building new roads. For example, we remove. VAT also applies to public transport. We cut the prices of public transport by 20 pst. and uses 1 billion. kr on a bus package for the districts, for several express buses and more flexible bus solutions. In this way, we believe that we do not need the massive motorway construction that NTP adds to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2144	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2149	When the government presented the NTP, they delivered a package of extremely expensive performance projects, which also lack local anchoring. The plan cuts into the ambitions of intercity around Oslo, but runs on gigantic motorway projects towards Oslo. In Bergen the railway has to wait east, while the highways are being extended and the controversial Hordfast bridge, which will rage the nature around Bjørnafjorden, gets 40 billion. kr. In the South, motorways are being built in new lanes – huge dimensions that will destroy both food and nature. In general, it appears that the transport plan of the government is a gigantic and unrealistic airlock. Not least: with 123 billion kr in toll financing, the government proposes that the bill be distributed extremely unfairly and will also be able to generate a new toll riot along our entire coast, for fully understandable reasons, given the government's arrangements. It is also, in our view, sad and outrageous to see how the government continues to rely on privatisation, social dumping and renting to bring down costs. Rather, red will end the lavish fragmentation of the railway that is wasting millions on Director's wages. We want to assemble the railway into one company, call it the NSB, and rather spend the money on new railway projects. Then it's interesting to see the lack of coherence between the government's plan and the government's own great targets for cutting greenhouse gas emissions. This plan is in reality a torpedo to the climate goals that the government itself presented in January. Because, at the same time as the government enters into new urban growth agreements to limit the use of cars and cut emissions, most of the budget is spent on ever new motorways towards and between the big cities, making the same objectives much more difficult to achieve. There is climate policy in reverse countries. Red proposes to stop these projects: No to Hordfast. No, Rogfast. No to the Moorax. Only here can we save 100 billion. kr. Rather, let us spend that money on public transport in and between cities and on securing safe and safe roads throughout Norway. Red prioritizes safe roads, followed by maintenance of our county roads, and not least continues to expand in a large form of intercity, of double tracks, of Nord-Norway and Grenlandsbanen to ensure, in sum, that people can travel safely and cheaply, but also environmentally friendly. When we presented our own climate plan earlier this year, we just prioritised reductions in car traffic and air traffic. Of course, we see nothing of that in the government. They let Avinor continue to work for 4 pst. increase in annual air traffic. We want a corresponding reduction and no expansion of a third runway on the Gardermoen. In the case of car traffic, we go in to cut 3.5 pst. in metropolitan areas. It won't happen without further notice. Then we have to bet on public transport, give people alternatives to the private car, and fortunately we do it in Red with e.g. to propose further T-track solution for Lower Romerike to Lørenskog. Today there was a demonstration outside the Size. Oslo residents will have an E6 cover at Manglerud and Furuset. We do not find this in the NTP, but fortunately we find it in our own proposal from the Red House, which everyone here in this Chamber should vote for. This is one of many areas where the government is indifferent to ordinary people. Now we need a transport policy that takes the climate, security and people most seriously, that ends the government's expensive performance projects and instead starts with a large-scale effort on public transport and on safe and racially safe roads. That is why we are making a number of proposals that I hope will receive broad support. With that, I take up Red's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2170	Then the representative Björn Moxnes has taken up the Red's proposal, so now there are 372 proposals on the matter. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2177	Having looked at all the proposals from Red and so far tried to put me into it, it becomes a little bit unclear to me what the overall framework for the NTP is seen by Red, and how to finance it. So I heard in the post that he'll scrape Hordfast, he'll scrape the Moorax, he'll scrape Rogfast, and on it he'll save $100 billion. kr. So this is three projects that it's set at 51 billion. kr for in government money. So how are these equations going to go together?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2182	Red's policies are transparent and fully realistic and feasible, but require us to do some big cuts as well. We also need to look at the total cost of the projects for both the inhabitants and the state. The citizens are financing the state, with which Helge Orten and Right are probably familiar. The total cost of Hordfast is set at 40 billion. kr, Rogfast 25 br. kr and Møreaksen 25 brd. kr. The interesting thing is that neither the transport workers, the long-distance drivers nor the trade union movement are involved in these projects. They don't want them, the inhabitants are mildly divided, but the NHO is full of them, and the Right, of course, always does what the NHO asks for – as we've seen through the pandemic for a whole year. Obviously, if you give priority to nature, safe, race-proof roads and public transport across NHO's wishes, there's money, it's just counting on it. It is fully possible, feasible and much smarter also to ensure better transport in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2189	I still don't understand the math, because we're adding 51 billion. If you are going to cut it, that is what you are saving – unless you are going to shift the tax rate dramatically in our country, of course. It may be, and I understand that is Red's policy, but it is not possible unless you intend to continue to charge the same toll without building the project and taking the full cost and using it to finance other transportation projects. There's something about the math here that doesn't jump. 51 B.C.E. kr is the basis of government funding for these three major projects. That's what you might save and use for other projects, if that's what you want. Now I think as far as it's a bad idea to take this grip, but it's a little bit interesting to see if this calculation of Red is actually related.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2196	Let's do a couple more laps. It is such that there are planned massive four-field motorway expansions over much of our country under the current bourgeois government. We want to scale a lot of this down to three-field highways with middle parts, i.e. avoid collisions and safe roads, but do not destroy nature massively and build more food soil massively, so that the NHOs always want – in any case – to have an impact on the Right Policy, as we see in every context. We want to give a slightly wider priority to what employers are asking for: social interests, safe roads, public transport and also to safeguard our nature. If you do that and add it up, it's possible to scale down the biggest motorway projects and cut out Rogfast, Hordfast and Møreaksen, and then you have a setup that goes up in sum.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2203	I still don't fully understand the math, but I'll leave it with that. What I just want to clarify is that the representative Moxnes refers to the NHO, but there are far more than NHO who are concerned with these projects. Firstly, they are rooted in local politics, in the democratic bodies we have in these areas. They are anchored in this Chamber, by a broad majority. Now I see the Center Party starting to wing a little bit when it comes to Hordfast, but basically there's a fairly wide majority behind these three big projects in the decision-making bodies. There have been solid investigations to get to where we are today. How appropriate, then, is it to use the type of rhetoric and merely to refer to the NHO, which, to the extent that it also represents important business interests, when it is actually also well anchored in the political bodies?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2212	It should not offend the Right to point out the obvious that the Right is a body of employers' interests. Historian Francis Sejersted – who was probably Right-Man – has also pointed out that it has been Right-Mission historically and is still today. It's not everyone in Stavanger who thinks it's a very good idea to get many more mountainers to Stavanger at all times, I've heard. The idea of connecting Stavanger and Bergen to one working region, in a situation where it is fully possible to work more over longer distances with new technology, is a 1950s motorway tank from the NHO that is right, together with the Progress Party – and, to be told, the Workers' Party too – has introduced into the Stortinget, which is backward and old-fashioned. Rather, what we need is to think in the future. Think collectively, trains and smaller highways than it is added up to by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2219	It was violent to criticise the Right and NHO here. I have to say that the NHO represents business, and both the Right Party and the Advance Party – I try to boast a little of the Right – are busy with business, because that's after all the jobs of people we talk about. It's everyday out there, people work, and then you have to have a business life. Not everyone can work for the public. Therefore, I really wonder about the following: I have understood that Red is concerned about accidents. It's positive, we have to bring down the number of accidents, and they're therefore occupied with the two-three-field road. Then you get done with the accidents, but you can't do anything about the capacity and reduced travel time. I don't know about Red, for example. has visited the Raufoss industry at rv. 4 – to mention it again, which has become a repetition today. They produce values for over 70 billion. kr, produced by Norwegian workers, to enter the world and compete in the international market. They're screaming for a new road. They're screaming for a four-field road, not a two-three-field road with kangaroo driving in jerks and beaks, as Red, Socialist Left and Left will have. Doesn't Red see the advantage of both bringing down the accidents and reducing travel time, as most people and business actually ask for?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2227	Firstly, employers must never be confused with business, with businesses and with value creations. The values are the employees, the employees. They create the values of the enterprises. Someone's taking the profit, that's right, and that's the owner. But there is a difference between the owners, the Progress Party, and the real values. You never have to mix the two, at least if you're a party for most people. Yes, goods have to go to the market quickly and efficiently. It's a tragedy that so much more goods go from railway to motorway. It provides more dangerous roads and more social dumping on our roads – on the watch of the Progress Party for six years in government, with trailers from Eastern Europe, with drivers from the Philippines who are scarcely aware of it, and with the free movement of greetings from the EEA Agreement. Getting goods across from road to rail, bet massively on it, will provide people with much safer roads than the Progress Party's barrel and drive for the EEA and the free flow.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2234	I have to say that I share Red's vision of more goods by rail, especially for timber. The progress party has put the freight package into its NTP, and it is a very important investment for goods from road to rail. But too much of the industry – back to e.g. Raufoss, as we talked about before – we see that it's going to be fast in the world, it's going to be right out in the world. And we have to regret that it takes longer by rail, at least as it is today. Even though we're expanding the freight package, not all goods and goods are suitable for the railway, so you're still dependent on a road, you're still dependent on a better road network. That is the recognition I do not fully understand whether Red has yet arrived. Return to rv. 4: What's wrong with expanding a continuous rv. 4, as the industry, most people and all the rapporteurs, including those on the left, ask?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2239	If you look at what Red proposes in the state budget and also in the NTP, there is a great deal of effort to reintroduce the demand for maintenance and also to secure safer roads for both industry and people most, but what we are against is these huge motorway projects with massive toll financing that the Progress Party is driving around the country. We can build safer roads without having four-field highways everywhere, and we can also get goods from road to rail by betting massively on the railway. The problem today is that the road competes out of the railway very effectively because we have got so crazy cheap transport on our roads for one reason: massive social dumping of long-distance transport on the guard of the Progress Party. That's the problem, and it has to clean up. Then we have to stand up to the EEA. It doesn't make the Progress Party, but at least it does Red, I'm sure of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2244	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2249	On the third day, the Spring Lord had great confidence in future Norwegian engineers and entrepreneurs when he parted dry land on earth. The Norway Map shows it with all clarity: the planning and construction of transport infrastructure in our geography is demanding. But that's why it's very happy that there's such a broad consensus that we're going to have buseting and activity in all of Norway. That's why it's also so important – and there's perhaps a few things that engage as much – with just roads, railways, airports and ports. Transport is important in Norway. It is important locally, regionally and nationally. It connects us, and it's about our everyday life. I believe that presenting a national transport plan is the greatest joy a Minister of Transport can have, but also the greatest test. Not all wishes are satisfied, someone wants a different priority, and we don't have an excessive amount of money. I think we have presented an NTP that sees the whole country, which takes the climate and traffic safety seriously, with good projects that will benefit citizens and businesses. NTP was launched on 19 March. For me, it has been very important that he be both ambitious and realistic – a plan with great and important grips. Several major reforms have been carried out in the transport sector. New NTPs may be the biggest and most important reform, with portfolio management and demands for more transport for money. The cost estimate in the previous NTP failed. The plan was unrealistic. With the optimisation of resource use and the introduction of portfolio management across the whole sector, we will benefit and costs will be reduced. Portfolio management will change the dynamics of the Norwegian transport sector away from being a struggle to get space in the NTP to be a competition to develop the best projects. The state authorities, Bane NOR and the other companies now have a larger space for action to make the projects the best possible and to propose the right solutions. My predecessor, Jon Georg Dale, took the course for a new NTP. It was a good course. Today we moor the NTP shot here in Stortinget. Interest for NTP is always great. I have received a large number of recordings and wishes from politicians, businesses, organizations and people most of the country. We have had many meetings on trips, but we have also had several digital meetings, including: a digital people meeting. That's what it had to be under the pandemic. During the three months since the plan was presented, he has been discussing and commenting at local level, in newspaper columns, in social media and here on the Lion Tray. I am well aware of this when it is necessary to make a neutral assessment, but I would like to claim that in general the plan has been well received. Then I'm thinking about the big lines, the understanding that we need to get more transport out of the resources of the community, that the time for the long wish lists must be over, and that we should give all the agencies and companies greater opportunities to continuously work out the best projects – that we should not lock ourselves too soon to solve them. These grips seem to me to have been met with understanding, and at least with mastery recognition, if not always with standing applause. The government's commitment to transport is a commitment to increased value creation, greater freedom and opportunities for more people, said the Prime Minister when we presented the plan. In 2013, the transport budget was 40.2 billion. kr. In 2021, it's over 80 billion. kr. In total, the NTP-frame now amounts to over 1,200 billion. kr. But it's not all about money. Comprehensive reforms have given rise to more competition and increased efficiency. The result is shorter travel time, more train departures, increased traffic safety and green urban development. It's open over 800 kilometers of road. 200 kilometres are under construction or ready for construction, and we have had significant reductions in travel time on important road sections. The railway operation has given 100 new train departures only in Oslo, and in 2019 there were over 13 million train passengers more than in 2013. The economic space becomes, as we know, less in the future. Transport will continue to be at a high level, with real growth in the future budget. Money spent on transportation can easily be used to create more and to get more people to work. With a new NTP, over 80 new projects are coming across the country in the first period. Many calculations and analyses underpin the priorities of this plan. Afterwards I have been informed that there has been a regrettable technical error in some of the projects. I have informed Stortinget about the reason and consequences of this in a letter dated 10 June 2021. Many do not mention concrete projects in other periods. As I said, we have made an important change in NTP: To better manage after challenges and not bind us to solutions that go out of date, we have not prioritised concrete projects in the last part of the planning period. The new Vegar model is an important step in this new plan. I am sure that this formula will work throughout the transport sector. We see that the state road system has already achieved promising results using parts of this method. New Vegar will be responsible for eleven new sections, with a greater geographical spread, and the company will have to try something completely new with responsibility for the Ringeriksbahn. A new transport plan will give us the transport country needs, but also help us reach our climate targets. With the reductions outlined in the climate plan, we are expected to halve emissions in the transport sector in 2030 compared to 2005. New NTP facilitates efficient and environmentally friendly transport. It makes it easier for people to choose public transport, bike or walk. The zero vision of a transport system where no one is killed or seriously injured applies to all modes of transport and is a specific objective of the NTP. The progress of the road has been good. In 2020, under 100 people died in road traffic for the first time since 1947. We have an ambition that no one will be killed in road traffic in 2050. The government has pointed out the efficient use of new technology as a new goal in NTP. This will allow us to achieve the objectives for the transport sector more quickly and efficiently. With portfolio management, the development of new technologies will also be more likely to contribute to the ongoing optimisation of investments and thus provide us with more money. The government will continue to contribute strongly to the split layer around the urban growth agreements. We now implement the arrangements for Kristiansand, Buskerudbyen, Grenland, Lower Glomma and Tromsø and come with a new addition that will strengthen public transport, cycling and walking in Bodø, Ålesund, Haugesund, Arendal/Grimstad and Vestfoldbyen. The government is also adding up to a historic state road operation with a new 775-million highway in mind. kr annually during the first scheduled period. In the second planning period, this will increase to 1775 million. kr annually. Because we're strengthening the work on tunnel safety, we're increasing the frame rate to the state by 225 million. kr annually. All of us have given priority to 16 billion. kr more for the NTP road. This is also a plan that contains a dedicated Barna's transport plan, as the Christian People's Party was an important driver to get in place for the first time in the previous NTP. This time there are also means. The children's transport plan contains recordings from the children themselves. Safe schooling is something a lot of children are busy about, and they want to handle themselves as much as possible and not always have to be run where they should. In other words, children and young people want what transport planners call mobility – greater freedom of movement. The government will give children good opportunities to be active and self-employed road users, and we will take care of the needs of children and young people when we plan. I'm summing up with this very important perspective and I'm going to say that new NTP is an ambitious and realistic plan that goes beyond the high level and comes up with a grip that gives us more money, and that allows us to create opportunities too far, far more.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2297	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2302	Thanks to the Minister of Transport for a good – and long – work on the national transport plan, which is now completed, or rather tomorrow after the vote. Now we are in the situation that there is no majority in the National Transport Plan. This has been the first time since 2005, and I would like to hear the Minister for Transport's assessment of it. At the same time, therefore, there are 372 individual proposals, i.e. proposals for individual projects. Most of them relate to concrete development projects. It's a signal, a sign that there's no majority in the Stortinge behind the plan. What does the Minister for Transport do after voting tomorrow, when he comes to the office on Wednesday and will plan on the basis of the agreed national transport plan? And what does the Minister for Transport do if a lot of the proposals for individual projects now being promoted are adopted during tomorrow's vote?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2311	I think the transport sector has been very lucky because we have had a national transport plan. This is the fifth plan. I think it has made us think more long-term and better than many other sectors, because we have been able to see from a 10-year perspective – and with this plan also from a 12-year perspective. I feel that with the plan we have submitted, as I read the setting, there is nothing of what we have submitted, for which there are not really quite wide multiples for. It's on the road, it's on the railways, it's on the coast, and it's on aviation. It may be a major concern to me whether there will be many plural decisions on individual proposals, because it will actually devalue the plan as a whole, but for the time being it seems that the Stortinge is also wise in this area, and then we will have a national transport plan that stands well ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2318	I think it's actually the sixth national transport plan that's now under consideration. One of the major challenges facing the transport sector is the high pressure on wages and working conditions, both in the truck industry, in aviation, in taxis and in several other areas. Unfortunately, it is a major feature of unprofessional actors, and it is simply a major challenge of social dumping. Now I've read the big message carefully. I do not think the term ‘social dumping’ is mentioned at all. The Labour Party has launched several measures to intensify the fight against social dumping, to ensure that we get less work-life crime and simply clean up the transport industry and the construction industry. Among other things, we have has launched a so-called ‘serity model’ in which the enterprises to build public projects, such as: roads, railways, airports and ports are subject to certain serious requirements. What does the Minister of Transport think about creating such a model?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2327	I see the representative Sverre Myrli was on the first NTP, and I think he's right that this is the sixth – that it's five before. It is an important theme that has been edited. I also believe the representative is right when he says that he has read the entire NTP, and that the words ‘social dumping’ have not been used, but we have taken up what is going on in work crime. It is important that our units, our underlying agencies, work on this, and it is important that we from the public authorities cooperate – that is control and building units to achieve it. I am also open to the kind of proposal that the representative Myrli made on his question, and to look at this. I think we have to get rid of the unprofessional actors. It's a common goal for us. I believe that the state road authority, Bane NOR, must work on this, and they must also work across and share experiences.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2336	The Minister had a wise opinion instead of the pulpit in his speech by saying that the benefits must be raised and the costs must be reduced. Then I expect Hareide to think that New Roads and the reforms we have started there for the transport sector must be continued and should be intensified. That's wise. We have adjusted the limits before in the projects that Nye Veger has received. We have moved, among other things: the limit from Ensby to Hafjell to increase the benefits of society and obtain a more rational E6 project above the Gudbrand valley. The government has now put forward a lot of it itself, as for example: Biri-Hunndalen, so I hope the minister is willing to keep looking at it a little bit with adjusting borders. At E6 Steinkjer, Nye Vejer is responsible before and after Steinkjer, but not in Steinkjer. In the case of rv. 3/25 Elverum, part of the way is given to New Roads. On E16, rv. 2 Kongswinger, you might get traffic through Kongswinger. I wonder if the minister is willing to engage in dialogue with New Roads in order to optimise the portfolio, to use that term, and perhaps also consider giving us a little more money, so we will benefit even more from the money we spend on New Roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2346	As the representative Johnsen brings up here: New Roads have been a formidable success, I would say. They have added 35 billion. kr on its portfolio. They have reduced costs by 25 billion. kr. There's a lot of money that we're going to get together again. It is also right, as the representative Johnsen says, that we have adjusted some of the projects. We are now submitting a new portfolio, and I will not reject the fact that we can also adjust a part of the portfolio in the future. There is no suggestion for that, but if seeing health can make the projects better, I am not in the foreground to do it. It's done before, and it seems I have our wise decisions. The most important thing for me is to point out that the way New Vegar works, I would like the State Road Service to work more towards. When we also look at the changes on the railway, this idea is based on how we're going to get improvements there.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2355	Thank you to the Minister for a wise answer. Unfortunately, we do not today get the bulk of the population to optimize the portfolio of New Roads and ensure that they get the most wise and comprehensive overview of what they are responsible for. I then interpret the minister as he is willing to look at it, and then I also hope that in the same sling he focuses on the New Roads being a success, and that it must continue to be a success. From this point of view, I wonder whether the Minister himself will take the initiative in such a dialogue with Nye Veier, or whether he will sit passively and watch the government starve New Veiger so long and so much that it simply begins to go beyond the reputation, efficiency and credibility of the company.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2362	The government has no intention of feeding New Roads. They've got a big new portfolio that we're presenting now, and having extended the ignition has a big impact on a company like New Vegar. So we also look at the joint project, which we have wanted to give, and which we have decided to go to New Roads. We have a good dialogue with New Vegar also about it. Of course, there will be enough funds that will have to come to the top of the funding underpinned by the NTP. I am concerned that we should further develop New Roads, and when I read the setting, I also feel that there is actually a quite wide majority in Stortinget that wants to do so. I thought that was very good. My point is that New Vegar has gone ahead and shown some ways to work on. The state road service has already got the kind of possibilities that they have good results, and I want us to work the same way on the railway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2373	Of the Minister's introduction, I realized he's threatened Norwegian engineers. But now we are going to look at the situation for the Norwegian plant industry from 2017 onwards. In 2017, 9 pst went. of the large contracts to non-resident companies, while the number has increased to 43 pst. in 2020. So far this year has 52 pst. of the major road projects in this country went to non-resident companies, a review from Road Deck. This means that if this government is not replaced, with a decrease in the number of foreign actors, the number of Norwegian actors in large projects will be down to zero in five new years. We can't have it like that. The minister says he wants to do something about it, but the result shows it the other way around. There is a great difference between word and action.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2380	The representative Mossleth will go back to 2017. I want to go a little further back. In 2012, a Central Party Council set up to work with a new NTP. The NTP pointed out that one would want more providers from abroad. How many foreign suppliers, contractors, were part of the State Road Service’s contracts in 2012? 43 pst. Oh, my God! In 2020, the first year that I was in charge of the State Road Service, the number of foreign suppliers, contractors, on the major projects was zero. Yes, we know that two out of four contracts to New Vegar have been awarded to foreigners, but in their first year, 2016–2017, there was no such one to foreign. So Marit Arnstad went abroad to get more foreign entrepreneurs. She also pointed to it in her NTP. I am concerned about balance and would like to look at opportunities to ensure more Norwegians, but I still think there is a balance in the market today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2389	It costs to build a road. I got some answers from the Council of State to some questions: NOK 175 000 per metre on average for a two-/three-way. 300000 kr per metre on average for a four-field road. In 2019, the State Road Administration carried out an investigation into road sizes and traffic management capabilities, and they considered that a two-/three-way road could easily fix traffic up to 15 000-18 000 ADT. But before that, it is also true that the State Road Service will extend the use of two-/three-way to ÅDT 15 000 instead of four-field roads when revising the Manual N100 Road and street design? That's a question to the Council of State. Obviously, they were not allowed by then political leadership in the department to send this to the hearing, but we have had another government council after that, and nothing has happened. Everything goes on like before. Why has the Council of State not listened to technical advice from the State Road Administration?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2396	That's exactly what I've done. When we have now presented new road standards, I have said, "Propose a proposal that is the Technical Recommendation of the Directorate of Road – we will agree on that." It happened. So it was entirely up to the Directorate of Roads to make a professional recommendation. The road normals give more flexibility, and I think that's good. I also noticed the question that the representative Arve Nävra had to Hans Fredrik Gruvan. I think something of the nucleus is right there. Take part in Norway, which we have built before: We have built a new road, then 10–15 years have passed, and then we actually have to build a new road. It is not optimal, either for environment, climate or land use. I think that's important. When we are building, we must build for future, with new technology, new innovation. That's what we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2403	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2408	Transport is the tool that binds the country together. Roads, railways, airports, and the seaway together will make this country connect for us as individuals, for business and for society as a whole. The Workers' Party is concerned with the whole country, that city and country are going to be connected, and that as a nation we are going to take advantage of our natural advantage, our long-range coast. The Workers' Party wants a boost to the coast, and unfortunately, after eight years, we can conclude that the government has not ensured that the coast and coastal needs have had the same increase as other transport areas. Sitting government has not prioritised the coast. They have transferred the major fishing ports to the county municipalities, and the four most northern counties have not yet taken over this area. It did not provide sufficient resources to take over this responsibility. As a result, the development of fishing ports in Norway has been delayed by several years. It's tragic, but the responsibility lies with the Solberg government alone. Then it's sad reading when you see the comments from the Right and the Left, where it's called: ‘However, the members of the Committee on the Right and the Left are concerned that several county municipalities have so far chosen not to take over the fishing port facilities and that this is a contributing factor in the progress of major projects that would otherwise have been worse.’ The government has made havoc and is quite free enough to blame the county councils – it is the representatives of the government parties in the hall who have done so. They owe the county councils, the same county municipalities that they transferred minimally with money to in the previous state budget to take over responsibility. I wonder how this remark is read out among our state politicians. We can't have it that way. It's unsustainable, and the situation has to be resolved. The working party has added 1.8 billion. kr in our NTP proposal as a one-off pot on which the county councils can apply to speed up the development of fishing ports in Norway. You can make a lot of money out of this $1.8 billion loan. kr. The working party opposed the transfer of fishing ports, but will not propose that it be reversed, for the simple reason that we would then contribute to further delays in the rate of development. A government shift will strengthen the development of fishing ports in Norway. It is important for Norwegian fishing industry, important for value creation, and it is forward-looking. The size has decided that more goods will be transferred from road to sea. The government has made use of funds in the government budgets, funds that have been disbursed each year in the revised national budget because they have not been used for that purpose. The working party will give priority to the decision of the Storting and contribute to the move of more goods from road to sea. We have seen that the coast needs a predictable freight infrastructure during the corona epidemic. The reduction in capacity of the cyst led to problems in sending fish from Finland. Again, it meant that restrictions were imposed on the supply of fish. All infrastructure has to be connected, it has to work, and it is quite clear that there is a need for freight routes along the coast. In June 2019, the Stortinge adopted a new port and water law, which specifies that the State of the Coastal Agency is responsible for the fairways all the way into the dock. This Decision has been followed up by Minister for Transport Hareide with proposals for fairway measures such as the Raftsundet, the entrance to the port of Borg, the entrance to Værøy and Røst, and that the port of fishing in the Andes must be muddy. The Workers' Party supports all the fairway measures presented to the National Transport Plan, but is aware that county municipalities are not satisfied with the scope of the fairway measures for which the State is responsible. This is an unresolved problem that must find its solution. We have come to a point where we have to take a power cap and bet on the coast, and that can only happen if we get a government shift to the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2434	National Transport Plan 2022-2033, Report. St. 20 for 2020-2021, is a document that many people are concerned about, because transportation is something that affects most of us in everyday life, and an area that few are indifferent to. To get to work, school, leisure activities or travel is probably within a form of transport such as a passenger car, plane, train, tram, bus, bicycle, or maybe a walk. This is where an infrastructure and transport system meet that needs to function in order for one to travel safely and efficiently. That's why the government over eight years has prioritised commerce high. The initiative has led to shorter travel times both on the road and on the road, increased road safety and positive urban development. In addition, the transport sector has been modernised through several reforms that have led to increased competition, innovation and efficiency. It is therefore good that this work is followed up with an ambitious but realistic transport plan. The overarching objective of NTP 2022-2033 is an efficient, environmentally friendly and safe transport system by 2050. Work on the national transport plan has been ongoing for a long time. For the Right section, work started in 2019 with the Rechts county and local teams and stakeholder organisations. There have been many good recordings that have been important in the work on NTP. So we also recognize that the need is greater than the frame we have to stick to. Therefore, it is so important to base portfolio management on investments that projects that are most successful in optimising can be implemented first. With portfolio management, a dynamic in the transport sector changes away from being a battle for a place in the NTP to be a competition to develop the best projects. The Storing Message is based on 1,200 billion. kr as a comprehensive financial framework, and after the deliberation, the proposal from the Government Party is to increase the framework by 5 billion. kr. Of all the measures contained in the national transport plan for national roads, railways, coasts, urban areas and aviation, there is one new area that is prioritised in the national transport plan, and that is the back-up system for county roads. In the recording session we had in the Right, and during the hearing the committee had on the Stortinget, the maintenance run on the county roads was a theme that went on again. The maintenance ramp on the county road network is large. The latest up-to-date data are back in 2012, but the estimate is in the range of 60 to 70 billion. kr. When the county got responsibility for 17 000 kilometres of road in the context of the regional reform in 2010, it did not follow with enough means to take the maintenance run. Today's county road network is 45,000 kilometers. It's four times more than the national road network. Right has been a driving force to find schemes where the state can help to bring down the aftermath, but where the state still has the primary responsibility as wardens. The solution is a 50-50 scheme in which bead bead bead bead bead with the corresponding means of the state. For us in the Right, it was important that this was a back-up scheme and not an application-based scheme, and we are pleased that this scheme is now coming under Table C, special distribution in the frame during upgrading and renewal. The county road network is referred to as the arteries in our road system. The county road network is often important nutrient routes, and whether there is source water from the municipality of Fv. 355 or fish from the municipality of Frøya, fv. 714, the transport is often done on very bad highways. Therefore, it is positive that this is one of the two criteria underlying the new incentive scheme, as well as the criterion of enlargement of the construction and labour market regions. A project that Right has highlighted specifically in the setting is the Bamble municipality's gas path, e.g. Thirty-three. This is an important nutrient route that one has tried for many years to find solutions in terms of road safety and ensuring good contact with E18. Right looks at this path as an example of an important nutrient path that may come under the tilling scheme. In the first place, a survey of the state of the county road network is needed, and we are pleased that the state road system has been set up to engage in this work in dialogue with county authorities, and that the state road system is to manage the system. We look forward to the rapid start of this work, and we note that all parties support this historic setting of prioritising the road network in their national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2457	The centre party will operate the whole of Norway. The centre party will have a national transport plan that facilitates investment in infrastructure, in order to generate growth and value creation across the country. We want people to live, live their lives and create jobs everywhere. Our job as politicians is to facilitate it. We do that by increasing the investment in racial protection and building and maintaining highways and county roads, so that people and goods get safe, fast and efficient. In this plan, we are making strategic investments on the railways, so that important values created throughout the country can safely reach their domestic and foreign markets. In addition, the centre party maintains that the objective of developing external intercity must be established. Until it is implemented, the national transport plan must be used to implement significant improvements in supply. 2.7 million socks for the intercity triangle. Significant improvements in supply could thus have an impact on half of Norway’s population. Development is essential for mobility and industrial development in the East. Most of the traffic will continue to be on the road network in the future. We have prioritised upgrading the continuous routes north-south and east-west, and we will also reduce bottlenecks on national, county and municipal roads. The centre lot will develop new assessment criteria for the appropriate road standard on new and old roads. There are major differences in infrastructure around the country. In parts of the country, the road network is so poor that goods transport is struggling to get there, and passenger transport is suffering from low speeds, poor ferry services and high racial risk. Some places there's a four-field road, some places there's no yellow stripe on the road. These differences must be balanced as soon as possible. For the Central Party, it is important to ensure that everyone has safe and secure roads wherever they live in the country. The centre party believes that a national overview of the total scaffolding needs of county roads and highways is needed, which is continuously updated, and we believe that national standards and criteria for recording steps on the road are needed. The Central Party believes that the Ministry of Transport must take a coordinating responsibility to establish a level playing field and to provide reports on the need for tailoring every four years for the national and county roads. The centre will create an attractive and modern train offer for passengers and freight and will work on a long-term objective of being able to compete with aircraft and road traffic to be an attractive transport offer between parts of the country. The railway lines must be upgraded in order to enable them to link regions in the long term in a climate-friendly, operationally safe and faster train provision. In order to strengthen freight traffic and regularity of passenger traffic, the Centre Party will work to build several crossing tracks, freight terminals and new signalling systems. We will also maintain the track sections so that regularity on the network can improve. The centre party believes that the organisation of the railway sector needs to be reviewed with a view to clarifying responsibilities. The centre party will have a well-developed collective network across the country, making it easy and reasonable both to travel to and from work and to travel quickly and climate-smartly between parts of the country. The center part will make sure that driving a cab still has to be a living, that is, a full-time job. Road is not the answer to transport challenges in and around major cities. Transport growth here must be solved by public transport, bicycles and corridors. Good flows in public transport in and around the major cities are positive, also for the emergence between the parts of the country. The centre party proposes to increase the framework for bets on the county roads by a further 4 billion. kr in the NTP period. Through concrete proposals and comments, the Centre Party describes our road and rail efforts. We prioritise concrete road projects and concrete actions on the railways. There we have also promoted solutions on the occasion of the case. In this way, the voters can clearly see what our main priorities are, and not least our proposals will be clear on what to prioritise in our future budget. In the Central Party's alternative national transport plan, we will give priority to important roads in order to improve the country-wide accessibility. The centre lot considers that it is necessary to take full account of the decision on the standard roads to be built on. In such assessments, the lot also considers that greater account should be taken of freight traffic, while large infrastructure investments in and around the largest cities have facilitated further growth in these areas. So lack of investment in districts has led to poorer infrastructure, and it facilitates decline and negative population development. The centre party is satisfied with the continuation of the system of national tourist routes and supports the objective of including all 18 selected tourist road sections in an overall attraction from 2024. It is absolutely necessary that funds be made available for the renewal and further development of the routes and that an agreement be concluded with the county if necessary for the operation, maintenance and racial protection of the tourist road sections which are state roads. It will be crucial for the projects coming in the first period of the NTP that there are projects that will have little impact on the uncertainty about the pandemic, not least changing patterns of work and travel. In addition, it will be essential to stimulate increased construction throughout Norway in order to get people working. Large tenders must be split and the criteria changed in order to allow Norwegian contractors to compete. Finally, I would like to point out that the difference between the Progress Party and the Centre and the other parties is that the Progress Party has a completely unrealistic plan, where they have made NTP a long wish list. It should disappoint the voters of the Progress Party that the party is unable to present a credible plan. When the Progress Party assumes that the framework will be increased by 400 billion. kr, it is not realistic. Thus, there is reason to believe that they are unable to realise their projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2488	It was a tradition in Norway that one agreed on the big lines in a cross-political way, so that an independent government gave predictability to both those who are planning, those who are going to develop, and those who are going to build our country. Policies shall also be used to counteract undesirable developments in society. One has to know where one is before one knows where one should. Then there must also be consistency between plan and actual budgets. The commitments made in the 2017 version of the National Transport Plan will not be met. The money just doesn't go to it. The projects that were promised were too many, and several of them have become more expensive along the way. Ketil Solvik-Olsen from the Progress Party was Minister for Transport when the 2017 plan was presented. There was a collective unrealistic overdraft, and after that, government budgets have been far from fulfilling their national transport plan. We now see that the Progress Party is involved in this plan. When expectations turn up, the disappointments naturally get even bigger when reality comes for a day. I guess there's been a lot of cake pissing and broken promises. National transport plan is no longer the tool for transport modes which are badly needed for projects. It is unpredictable, and there have become less political priorities and more competition between projects. We're not talking about a 12-year plan anymore, but we're talking about a 20-year plan. New roads have now received projects that go far beyond what they have in the context of the period, and we do not know which projects will be implemented first. In addition, there are two major OPS projects that will significantly reduce the government’s operating space in time. We also see that expenditure growth is high and the reforms are many, but there is no evaluation of the impact of these reforms. We want to do something about this in the Workers' Party. We need knowledge, and we need not least evaluation of what has already been done. That is why we have our own proposal. For us in the Workers' Party, the National Transport Plan is not only a plan of priorities between projects, but so much for how we want to build our country. The transport sector accounts for one third of emissions. It is essential that the climate plan, energy plan and national transport plan are linked. Unfortunately, these plans have been presented and dealt with separately. We'll make it easy and fair to make climate-friendly choices, no matter where you live. Different policies provide a fair climate policy. We in the opposition are constantly hearing that the government, through its major reforms in the transport sector, saves billions because they make things smarter. There is not a single file of this nature submitted. And the feedback we get out there is that people are desperate and shaking their heads. What we see is that there are increasing conflicts and large cost gaps. The NTP submitted has five transport objectives: more for the money efficient use of new technologies; contribute to the achievement of Norway’s climate and environmental objectives; zero vision for dead and hard damage easier travel and increased competitiveness for business. We wholeheartedly support this. It is gratifying that the value of our nature, our food soil and our cultural landscape should be given greater importance in transport projects. For the Workers' Party, a serious working life with solid, competitive enterprises is most important. We are now seeing a development in which an increasing share of our transport contracts goes to foreign entrepreneurs. In 2017 it was 9 pst., and this year it is 52 pst. who have gone to foreign entrepreneurs. The Labour Party has warned against the far too large transport projects that exclude the Norwegian entrepreneurial sector. Socio-economic accounts become fatal when a policy is more concerned with building a road rather than building a country and our skills. Local and regional value creation is significantly reduced. Norwegian contractors tolerate competition, but not the solid contracts based only on price. We need climate requirements, innovation and requirements for apprentices in calls for tenders. We want to strengthen Norwegian companies with Norwegian wage and working conditions and make them competitive, and we need to recruit skilled workers. Most of our road network consists of county roads. Our businesses are mainly located by a county road. The risk of traffic damage is now 62 pst. higher on a country road than on a national road. So this is going to increase by 2 billion. kr annually on these county roads. There is no consistency between the administrative room and the responsibility they have. Now the government says they want to do something about this, and a is going to spend 52 billion. kr on the county roads for the next 12 years. It would have been nice if this had been right. Tomorrow the municipal bill will be dealt with, and it will tell us something completely different. Only in order to meet the requirements The size has changed the tunnel safety regulations for the county councils by 2025, there is a missing 6.6 billion. kr. For racial protection, there's even more. We are therefore pleased that a unanimous committee now decides to draw up a national tailor-made implementation plan. We want to increase efforts for racial protection, and we want to give priority to operations and maintenance in order to take care of our road capital and improve its accessibility. For operating and maintenance contracts on both national and county roads, costs have increased following road reform. Up to 72 pst. increase is a lot of money. So we want one to develop a better interaction between the various road owners, based on geography and not on who owns the road. In the case of urban growth agreements, we believe that government priorities are positive. We believe the state should contribute up to 70 pst. in the major collective projects. The zero vision for dead and hard damage is a goal for the Workers' Party as well. Safe traffic says that there are large numbers of darkness, and that there is a need to change the way of reporting, especially for vulnerable road users. In the end, for the Workers' Party, it is crucial to have a fair distribution where the city and country go hand in hand – overall links from where the natural resources are, to simple choices to improve the accessibility of our cities and a fair distribution of costs where we will halve the price of ferry tickets, so that people can afford to live on the coast, where our natural resources and what we will live on in the future are. We have all the prerequisites for success if we are able to cope with the interaction between research and the technology environments, the entrepreneurs and the planners, and if we are predictable about the priorities on the part of Stortinget. It's the annual budgets that decide, and in the last four years we've seen that there's a lot missing from the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2542	When the government of Solberg was formed after the election in 2013, there was a sharp increase in the appropriations for transportation. The Right Party and the Advance Party continued to invest in both road and rail. It could be done because the government had solid support from the Christian People's Party and the Left in the Biggest. Without these two supporting parties, we wouldn't have gotten to where we are today. From 2014 onwards, appropriations for transport have doubled. This majority has also cooperated well in the current ageing period, although the composition of the government has changed. Not everything was better before. It's about most of your life. You push the negative sides fast and have easy to glorify the good ones. This is also the case in the field of transport policy. When one listens to the opposition, one should think that everything was perfect when they crashed, while now everything is just miserable. But after careful consideration, even the opposition must be able to realize that there is much that has changed because the world has changed. Technological development has given us new challenges and opportunities. When we came to power, everyone agreed that the railway was out of date and crashed. Nearly daily, a hearing about signal failures and unsafe operation with cancelled trains could be heard as a result. The bus for trains became a concept we have gradually become familiar with. Something had to be done. This job was started already under Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, but it is a long canvas to bleach. The last budget of the Stoltenberg government in the autumn of 2013, gave no indication that a power cap for transportation was on the move. That roof came with today's floodgates. Not only did the appropriations increase, but the time for reforms was over-ripe. New Weier AS gave the Swedish Road Administration a competitor who has both given us more money back and built faster. It has provided useful lessons that are transferable to both road and track. It has contributed to a stronger and more competitive state road service. The railway reform has laid the foundation for a more professional organisation in which the individual elements can cultivate their tasks, with the Directorate of Railways as the strategic superstructure and the Bane NOR that builds and takes care of the railway. The goal now is to provide the necessary space for action, both economically and strategically. Railway expansion has become expensive. It must have implications for where, how and how much railway development we are going to be able to implement in the coming years. The level of ambition is still high, but we cannot ignore diet-benefit assessments that we have to make. It also applies to intercity projects. The purpose of these projects is to provide passengers with a better train offer. If long pass-by tracks are sufficient to achieve the short-term objectives of the timetable, a reduction in the ambition for the number of kilometres of double tracks will be of less importance to the passengers. None of the three legs in intercity have an end station on Lillehammer, in Skien or Halden. They are all part of a wider context – Oslo – Trondheim, Oslo – Stavanger, Oslo – Gothenburg. Increased customer base on the long distances will in the longer term force more measures on these tracks, including in the intercity triangle. Cost-cutting is a well-known word in railway terms and, to a large extent, on the road side. Finding the reasons for the increase in costs is important. It's not just on the Eastfold course it's happening, and mercury is not the only reason. It's announced an evaluation of the Follobane project, and it's going to be interesting to see what comes out of it. I think there are several factors that affect cost. One is that the costs are sub-communicated in order to obtain the desired projects into the NTP. The second is that the projects are changed along the way in planning. In this NTP, important steps are taken to change this. Power packages and portfolio management are examples of this. The railway has many tasks: connecting regions, transporting goods over medium and long distances and transporting many people into and out of the big cities. The railways are also important for the Oslo region, where they are the backbone of public transport. Going back 15 years in time, Oslo was in the process of being choked by buses from surrounding municipalities and counties. The formation of Router AS has made major changes in this image. While the Storting Street was previously full of buses in the rush hour, there is today relatively calm and controlled. This had to change the attitude of both politicians and passengers. While a former passenger could sit on the bus in one of the 22 Akershus municipalities and end up in Oslo Centre, most passengers are today being transported to a collective hub where they can cross the train or the T-Bahn to be transported to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2565	Last night I ordered as a regular taxi to the airport. I ordered through what the government thinks is an immature app called Taxifix. The dross came – as always – to my address, and I was taken to the terminal at Stavanger Airport. Fortunately, taxis and aeroplanes are now beginning to be refilled with passengers. For a period of time, I felt very alone as a traveler, and I was almost all alone in the terminals – with mouthbands – and those who did the work for us, wondered like many others and knew of an uncertainty they had not known before: How long should this be? How long can I feed myself? Can I feed myself and mine? How long do I have a job? How will the corona pandemic change my future? This has been everyday for a long time now. Almost all the taxi drivers who have carried me have told me that they are looking after other work. In the middle of it, the government has implemented a new framework for the taxi industry. Almost anyone can be granted permission, and no one is obliged by the authorities to be on the road. This has many negative aspects. One of them is the country's preparedness, and that's why I'm talking about it in the debate on NTP. I have thought a lot about whether the government has assessed this aspect when they have forced through the taxi reform. It doesn't work that way. In the past, there was dross everywhere, always. Someone was always on the road and took care of society. It was a commitment that was given when the permission was granted. This is over now. We are also still hearing about taxi stations that have closed around the country at night. How do we get transport if we have a medical need, or if someone in the village is going home or out to go at night? This effect has been greatly underestimated in the government's blind race to liberalize taxi legislation and open up to companies that do not carry out passenger transport, but only pass it on through apps that are in what we call the cloud today. The Labour Party has been working towards this development in the industry for many reasons, but the preparedness aspect has been one of them. Nor has the government submitted to the industry, which has been hit twice in the last year by both liberalisation and customer withdrawal. So to the other means of transport I used, namely planes. In the case of the aviation industry, which carries me across the mountain, it is also hard hit by the pandemic. Customers disappeared overnight, and the companies had to leave and subsequently cancel many of the employees. Most of the planes were parked at airports all over the country. A minimal offer was maintained through the purchase of flights. What do we want on the other side of the pandemic? The government has been incredibly reluctant to help this industry through the pandemic and the lockdown that the government agreed with the Storting. The purchase of a few important air routes was for a long time one of the few measures. Other countries have used a lot to support their important airlines, while what we have done is to ensure a minimum of air routes — while the Norwegian government has been waiting for things to go over or take care of themselves. The Labour Party sees that there were also challenges in this industry before the pandemic, but the arrangements for which the government provided were either impossible for companies to use or had minimal impact. Cutting the passenger fee was not very helpful when the passengers were away. Offering loans to companies in distress was not what the companies needed – they had to be paid back. These industries had a lot of employees before the pandemic. Now, luckily, the activity is on its way up again, and we're only going to hope that unemployment now sinks, and that the people behind these unemployment rates get through this without lasting but with a wage to live on.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2584	For us in the transport committee, the NTP is the big deal in the bulk period. Transport and development of new and better infrastructure build the country, and good transport solutions are important both for central and rural areas, for urban and rural areas. It is important that transport systems are linked. They must facilitate the proper functioning of housing and labour market regions. They've got to make sure they're safe. We are making arrangements to cut emissions – and that is a lot, much more this transport plan is about. This is a good transport plan. The government continues the formidable increase in the area of transport and has really taken hold. As a representative from Northern Ireland, I am particularly pleased that our county has had a great impact both in the previous NTP and in this submitted NTP. No one passing through the Nordic countries can avoid noticing the large-scale expansion of E6 through the Nordic region. The development of E6 further north, the E10 Hålogalandswegen and two new large airports in Northernland – in Bodø and in Mo in Rana. It's the first major aerodrome expansion since 1994 nationally. Several major port extensions will be carried out in our state – in Andøy, Værøy and Røst, in the industrial town of Mo i Rana, to name a few. Large investments will be made on Ofotbanen and Narvik on the Nordlandsbanen, and a new rail signalling system will be rolled out throughout the Nordic region. For an export party like Nordland, from which I am proud to come, this huge movement effort is incredibly important. It reduces the distance discomfort. It improves business profitability. It creates housing for people who are going to live in our state. It creates jobs. It creates development. Yes, it creates short and good optimism. It is therefore essential that the transport systems in our country are well connected. It may be even more important in the districts. Road, track, sea and air are important bets in each of their areas of this NTP. It is also the case that the representatives in this Chamber are well aware that technological developments are very fast in the transport sector, and it has also been experienced by the Committee when we have been on many of our journeys. There's a lot going on in that sector. It will affect how we think in the future, how we think transport solutions also in terms of the environment, climate, emissions and not least safety. I am also very pleased that this government has put aside money to work out comprehensive transport solutions for North Norway, a kind of complete KVU. It will be important to have knowledge of what is important to give priority to future transport solutions for the country, but also for the country as a whole. It will facilitate development and growth throughout the country, throughout the part of the country I come from, and for the future of our children and grandchildren. The NTP is to be considered as the most important document for the development of the future of this grossing-up period.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2597	When I sit and listen to this debate, I have to say that it feels quite strange, almost a bit surrealistic. Had I been a picker out there who had been sitting and coming with me now, I would have been very confused, and if I had tried to see what the proposals the parties have, what they really mean, what they actually suggest -- and what they really, really, inside, maybe want to implement -- I would have become even more confused. It's no wonder it's going to be political contempt. The party of progress is presented here as unprofessional, because building the country is unprofessional. There's a lot of the rhetoric that goes on here, that it's "realistic" and "unusual", what we in the Progress Party are doing. I strongly react to that angle and really to the suspicion and ridicule of the ambition of the Advance Party. If we go back to the NTP in 2013, like the Workers' Party, the Center Party, and the SV, it was 508 billion. NOK, a little over 500 billion. kr. Then we had our NTP, in 2017, when the Progress Party came into government. Then it was empty gas, then we had 1064 billion. kr, which was a double. And what's now sitting there is a little adjustment, from 1,064 to 1,200. It's not necessarily an emergency brake, but at least it's not very ambitious in relation to what was there. It's -- what should we call it -- a normal, normal adjustment. Of course, we in the Progress Party are not satisfied with such an adjustment when we know that there is also a reduction on the road. The NTP now presented, in 2021, four years after our NTP, involves cutbacks, there is a reduction on the road. Of course, there is no invitation for good cooperation with the Progress Party. But the fact that we're adding 400 billion. kr more and get funded our projects, it is so-called unrealistic and absolutely incredible, while the other parties have submitted comments – and I see that the Centre Party has promoted many proposals today – without having funding. This is so-called serious and responsible. It's totally illogical for me, and I get quite confused, and I realize that most people get confused – and then I wonder what we're really doing here at Stortinget. So I want to say that I feel that in particular the Workers' Party and the Center Party are very co-ordinated in their strategy of producing the Progress Party's NTP as unrealistic and unrealistic. They had more questions for Helge Orten, among other things, about it with the consensus and the majority, and that this could have been a consensus, and that there was no consensus – and they pretend it is the Progress Party that is the problem because we have demanded 400 billion. kr, which is unrealistic. First of all, I'd like to say, once again, that 400 billion. kr is not unrealistic; it is a normal adjustment. It's just to look at how much the oil fund has increased just the four to five first months of this year, it increased by more than 400 billion. kr, or one can look at how the bulk of the population prioritizes: they give priority to buying handicrafts in New York, London and Paris instead of building Rv. 4, E134, E16, E6 and other important national highways. So it's clearly more responsible to gamble with taxpayers' money on all kinds of projects around the world, whether it's infrastructure projects or other projects – it's responsible, but to be part of and build the country, so that Norwegian business can get better framework conditions, it's irresponsible and irresponsible. It's amazing that it's possible to have such an angle. Our NTP is set up after business recordings, NHO recordings and input from county rapporteurs, from municipalities, from communities, from fishermen, from farmers, from people most out there – and it's so-called unaccountable and irresponsible. It's just amazing. It's about priority. It's that simple. We give priority to building the country, giving priority to taking care of Norway, while the bulk of the population, including the Center Party, prioritises gambling with tax money on all sorts of other projects. So handlers in New York are obviously more important than rv. 4th@item: inlistbox We think that's incredible, I really have to say that's very special. Another thing I'm particularly responding to is this angle around the negotiations on possible settlements, which in particular Myrli and the Center Party were in on earlier today. I don't know what kind of strategy Myrli has in negotiations, but if a doubter at his primary position, it's hard to reach agreement. But I think most people understand that of course, the Progress Party has not held up to 400 billion. NOK in order to reach agreement with the government – now I am not going to go into the details of the rounds we had with the government, but we were willing to meet them significantly – but of course we have some elementary requirements and some elementary leadership that are very predictable. It's about more money going on, and as I said, the NTP means cut to go. Taking structural action so that the State Road Service gets some projects with the same framework conditions as the New Roads, it's also not unrealistic, and that's natural, and that's something that the government itself is working on. Of course, we also had some ambitions on tolls, which were not unrealistic, but perhaps more a continuation of the level that we have managed to agree on. There was no willingness to agree. And when it comes to making it like it's the fault of the Progress Party, or the government's fault, or what it is now: I want to say that it's more the government's fault than the Progress Party's fault, at least.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2614	The national transport plan is probably one of the issues that there are great expectations for the country around it. Everyone has a road, a route or other infrastructure with which they want to do something – and preferably as soon as possible. So today some are satisfied, while others are probably very dissatisfied. Even if it's worth over 1,200 billion. For the next 12 years, there is no room for all good projects, and even if the projects are in the first six years, it is long until 2027 if you come last in the first period. And before that, the plan will be rerolled in this hall in four years. Transport policy is particularly important for building the country, not least for building strong housing and labour regions and for strengthening the framework conditions for Norwegian business. Where and how we build out is important to reach the vision of zero killed and hard damaged in traffic. I want to talk a little bit about the coast, because there's too few that do. The NTP is a Communication and a Roadmap for the next 12 years, but it is also essential that this is followed up in the annual budgets. Looking back on the latest NTP or current NTP and treatment, coastal purposes were deprioritised, and especially in the first six-year period. So when the Council of State indicates that today's NTP is unrealistic, it probably doesn't apply to the coastal effort — in that case it was unrealistically low. In addition, the government has not monitored the annual allocations for coastal purposes during this four-year period. There is a significantly lower follow-up rate for coastal purposes than for example: road, rail and specific transport measures during the period. The lack of investment for coastal purposes has implications for local business. One of the examples of this is a project I know well: dredging measures in Mo in Rana Harbour. If the municipality and the business community are to build a new deep water lake in Rana and facilitate new establishments, such as Freyr's battery cell plant, this must be done in place. Some measures are in the first period, and it is good, but it is still unclear whether the funds are coming in 2022 or whether they are coming in 2027. I record that a joint committee in its comments prioritises this and says that it must come earlier in the period, so we put our trust in that. Lack of coastal investment is also dramatic for the fishing ports. The previous decision of the four right-wing parties on state fishing ports – that they should be transferred to county municipalities, a transfer that the Workers' Party was otherwise opposed – shows that we have led to a clear weakening of the fishing ports. It may well be further confirmed that four county councils have so far chosen not to sign this agreement – it is probably a confirmation. The Workers' Party believes that a scheme should be established whereby the county may apply for funds for upgrading fishing ports through a one-off pool of 1,8 million. kr. These funds must be available both in the counties which have taken over the fisheries and in the counties which have not yet agreed to this. For the Workers' Party it is important to bet on the coast and sea, and in this context fishing ports are also very important. So a little bit about racial protection: the working party believes there is a great need for racial protection of our road network. The Workers' Party believes that a national racial protection plan for both county roads and national roads must be drawn up in cooperation with the County Municipality and has included 3 billion in its proposal. kr more during the 12-year period. I note that a majority in the Committee is in favour of a proposal for a national racial protection plan which will cover both national roads and county roads, and I welcome it. So a local case for Helgeland: Last week I was so lucky to be part of the debate and the decision on a major expansion in Rana – a new, large airport. I expected then that an overall committee now went in to set up a concept selection investigation for the road link to and through Rana. It has been waiting for today's Department of Transport to await the airport, deep-water skis and food establishments. These things are now adopted; they are determined and on the go, and I had then expected a collective committee to go in for such a KVU. So finally, I was in the last treatment. I have looked at the setting today. I think the document is three times as thick as last time, and I'm sitting with a feeling that this is delivered many good wishes, and then maybe you haven't taken responsibility for having a plan that you're going to run after the next twelve years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2631	The state of public infrastructure often shows the extent to which the nation is in prosperity and growth, and how the public makes it possible to be part of an efficient value chain, for example. on roads, which provide shorter, safer and faster travel times for goods and persons. Norway is a society in transition. The oil-smelted economy will slow down, and Norway will have an economy that is more like other economies that we are competing with today. Then it's important that we also manage to lift public infrastructure, especially on the road, when we're going to compete under different conditions than before. We all know examples of road sections that are hardly built for motorised traffic, examples of road sections where two vehicles are unable to pass each other, which are dangerous to the traffic and to the lives of vulnerable road users. Then I'm not talking about local whiskers who haven't been upgraded, I'm talking about European roads and main trunk roads between big cities and regions that far from having that standard you could expect. That's why we need a priority that gives important roads a boost, which is part of the transition that gives us a more efficient road network and that gives business value a boost. Then we can take care of and maintain the business that has established itself in the districts, ensure that they get the goods safely, ensure that our fish arrive quickly, and ensure that important equipment reaches its destinations on a fast and efficient way that prevents industry from selecting other locations due to a lack of standards on the roads. We have socio-economic calculations of our investments, so we leave many of our most socio-economically profitable projects in a drawer and get pushed out in time. Norway might have been able to afford it in the past, with an oil smeared economy, but if we're going to make a good transition to other industries, we can't afford to keep these projects in the drawer. This is why the Progress Party wants to give priority to raising our roads and getting a more efficient and traffic-proof road network. Let's think about what's going on in the socio-economic calculations we have on building new road projects. It is, of course, the use of the project and the time savings. The more vehicles that use the project, the greater the socio-economic gain. Why then do we introduce tolls on the same roads — tolls so high that they are traffic-repellent, giving rise to increased costs that result in the use of the project by neither private individuals, business nor sports? Had we been a poor nation without money, I might have understood that, but I don't have the impression that we're poor when the same little nation spends 1,500 billion. kr on a government budget. We're building a system that shows the order in which we're going to build the projects, by building the most trafficked first because they have the greatest gain, and then we're introducing traffic-reducing tolls, and the social benefits are either absent or at best pushed forward in time. Then we can have a policy that can be implemented with the oil policy we have today, which does not require that efficiency and profitability, but in a transformation this can not be a good store. Finally, just a few words about the West, about E39 and E134, because there are consequences when we say yes to some projects. We now have a fantastic ferry-free connection between Stavanger and Bergen by the fact that both Hordfast and Rogfast are inside. It will give the whole of the West a boost. It's going to give Sunnhordland a big boost, it's going to give Haugaland a big boost, but it's also giving rise to traffic. Then we can't forget E134, which has a terrible standard on parts of its distances. Bakka–Solheim was a project that nobody wants when this NTP was presented by the government. Now it's a project that everyone wants. I'm very happy about that. It will be of great importance to us. And the Progress Party has presented its own proposal today, no. 364, where all those supporting the project may be given the opportunity to secure it by supporting the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2650	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2655	Over the last eight years, there has been a historical commitment to transport. Transport budgets have almost doubled since 2013. That's good, but what's best is that there are very long-term projects that we see finally coming into place. Let's take the example of "Trundellag" under the red-green government, one planned the two-to-three-field E6. Now it is clear that E6 through Tøndelag will be built, first from Ulsberg to Åsen, and there with four-field standard and 110 km/h. Now there is also money to solve the bottleneck on the release. A new Release Bridge, Nydalsbrua, will also be in place. It is important for road safety, it is important for business, and it is also important because it is E6 that binds Nordland together with Trøndelag and Trøndelag together with Europe. The vast majority of goods destined for Europe are to be transported via E6, but they also start on a country road. I am proud that this national transport plan will finally address the maintenance maintenance run that has also been carried out on the county road network after many national roads were transferred to the county councils of the red-green government. Now, finally, we have an obliging escalation on the part of the state, and then it's just to expect that the county councils will also follow up with appropriations to ensure that we get a much better county road standard, which is important both for people's road safety and for business. There are an incredible number of things in this national transport plan that I could have pulled out and been happy about, but I'd like to draw out something that's probably been a headache in Trøndelag in the last 40 years. Finally, the government has come to want a new freight terminal and that it should be on the Heggstadmoen. It's a realistic alternative, it can be released faster, it's cheaper, and it's also wanted by many of the heavy nutritionists to use the area. It also means that we can finally get what is one of the most important things for urban development in Trondheim, Brattöra, for nutrition, housing and cultural purposes. I believe that it will be a great responsibility for those parties who may choose to reject a proposal that could lead to us finally stopping a matter that has been a long-standing group – for 40 years. I see that the Workers' Party in the case has not added money to a fully-fledged solution at Torgård. This will mean that the Labour Party's option is to send this matter out in new years of investigations. I don't think that's good for either the business community or the people of the city – nor for the climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2668	Climate and nature must be the framework for all policies below. We also make this clear in the new programme of the Workers' Party, and we therefore believe, of course, that this also applies to transport policy. As has been said several times today, the transport sector accounts for almost one third of all Norwegian emissions, so success with our rather radical climate targets is impossible if the transport sector does not contribute significantly to it. This is also important from a nature perspective because transport development is also about land. The good news is that this isn't just something we mean here. The rest of the world – all leading industrialised countries – is now thinking in the same direction. That is why there is a fantastic technology development in this whole field, but today, especially in the transport sector. We're only eight and a half years away from 2030, eight and a half years – that's exactly two big choices – and only twenty-eight and a half years away from 2050. The future is now being built. Everything we decide, build and acquire today will certainly be there in 2030 – well, notice if it is built – and after all, also in 2050, so the future is being created right now. Then it is important that we have a stress test against future technology even when talking about transport. I believe this applies to all sectors, but the transport sector is particularly well suited because it is a sector in which very much changes quickly. I want to use an example: the rapid introduction of electrified air traffic in Norway, not least in North Norway and the West, is extremely good at being in front of the world for short-haul electric air transport. I was recently visiting Onkøe in Bodø, which in close cooperation with other companies and with Avinor now sees that today's main model, Dash 8, will be replaced by electric aircraft, and they can start with the very first already in 2026 if everything goes well and according to plan. Then we'll eventually get an electrified short-haul network. The fascinating thing about it is that the infrastructure is already there. After all, we have a world record in the runway per capita. The infrastructure is complete, the aeroplanes become emission-free, you avoid driving land and beach around with petrol tankers, and that means you have consequences for the whole transport sector. Then it's incredibly important not just to say that you're doing what you've always done, but with new technology. It will have consequences for what we think otherwise in all other sectors, that aircraft in that part of the country that needs many short flights with few people will be the most emission-free option. Then I think that when you create transport plans, you have to think through the overall consequences before you agree on what the future looks like – for the future we build now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2681	The management of the national transport plan is like a holiday, and I am happy to be here and even say a few words. At the beginning of the 21st century, Hordfast was very enthusiastic about the West – and that is what it is. The Western Council adopted Rogfast and Hordfast as its top priority road link, and we worked systematically with the Road Administrations, such as the Ministry of Transport, the West Bank and the Transport Committee at Stortinget. The industry was excited. It has taken a long time, but now the projects are ready, and we are slipping to start in 2022. It strengthens the project that Hordfast has positive socio-economic benefits. The project is already in good progress. The regulatory plan is in progress. The Norwegian aluminium industry is embarking on an intriguing, innovative approach to brewing, which can provide large export revenues in the future for the region and country. The government has prioritised Hordfast as one of two projects at national level to involve entrepreneurs in a much earlier phase of planning. Therefore, we expect a project's project to expand – something we're looking forward to. The West is in transition. Good communications are the key. In this region, one million Westerners are ready for the future. Oil and gas are phased down in time. All the knowledge and expertise that the oil industry has given to the West comes well into the new era, which is to give work to people, bus people and maintain and further develop services to our inhabitants. The Christian People's Party has worked for Hordfast to be realized. As in most parties, there is a discussion of trasé options. I didn't get the line I thought was the best. But now we have to "belita" ourselves, and the time for rematches is definitely over. With Hordfast it will be a fantastic development in Stord, Tysnes, Björnefjorden and Bergen, and we must not forget Bømlo. Tordis Hareide was a trade politician in Hordaland County at the beginning of the 1990s, and she knew what was going to happen, namely coffee and freshly fried wafers to the Prime Minister and son Knut Arild, our Minister for Trade – not only in one election fight, but more. And the whole press basket was there. Congratulations to Westland and to Norway! The Christian People's Party is lifting the flag of Tordis and all those who have been on for Hordfast in different ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2701	One of my first actions as an environmental activist was in 1988 when the trick in Trondheim was dropped. Thanks to firesseller it was started again two years later. And along with other activists from Nature and Youth, I was on the first trip up to Lian. My first hive as a youngster was also right at the tram stop in St. Olav's Gate, and I'm sure I'll admit that there were some Sunday mornings I thought the trike was rattling a lot. Trondheim is a city in growth, and it's time again for a lift for the railing public transport in the city. Therefore SV now proposes to start work on building a city railway in Trondheim. The city is growing, and we need a city road to transport people environmentally friendly and safe in everyday life. In addition, we propose more money for public transport, the railways and a bet on pedestrian and bicycle routes. We get the money by stopping the motorways, which only add up to more motorism and more pollution, like the extensive expansion of the E6 north of Trondheim. This road will not only add up to more car traffic and make it difficult for Trondheim to achieve the goal of zero growth in car traffic, it will also pave large areas of cultivated land. For me, it's a mystery that there are some parties that talk hot about soil protection one day, and the next one goes in to pave the cultivated land with highways. In addition, SV wants to use tolls to build urban railways and railways. We must build the public transport of the future for Trondheim and for Trøndelag. We also need to upgrade the railway internally in Trondheim, so that we can get block routes on the trains between Melhus and Stjørdal. SV wants cities for people. That's why we believe that the zero growth target is now too weak. We want to reduce car traffic into the big cities by 40 pst. by 2030. No one else has set such ambitious goals to get cleaner urban air and more pleasant cities where people are going to live. This will be achieved by extending the urban growth agreement system, which is essential for cities to achieve these objectives and which will help finance public transport in many more cities in the years to come. Then we can get cities with clean air and that are safe for our children to grow up in.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2716	The party of progress will build the country. It means to bet on the road. It means investing in infrastructure. It is fully possible to increase the national transport plan by 400 billion. in addition to the Government's proposals. So that's just the sum that the oil fund has grown with since New Year's. What the Progress Party will do is to stop wasting as much money as we do today – on aid, on immigration and integration and on symbolic climate action – and rather build Norway. More and Romesdal are bomb-free. Tolls removed for 1.4 billion. kr. Carlister saves almost 200 kr turn-return Ålesund–Åndalsnes. But now, right, the Workers' Party, the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left Pepre Sunnmare with tolls. First you have to have a wall around Ålesund and skin the motorists with 3.2 billion. kr, and it almost without getting better roads. It's almost impossible to believe when you see the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Right stand and flag – stand and flag – to send a bill of 3.2 billion. kr for the drivers. But that wasn't enough. At the top of it, the sunmers will now also pay in expensive judges for the realization of the Moorax, which hardly anyone in More and Romesdal will have. Only 24 pst. This is supported by the population, and yet the sun-moments have to pay 45 kroner in two toll cuts to realize this, almost without improving the routes that are important between Ålesund and Sjöholt. The Advance Party will give priority to Blindheim-Breivika. It's not in a penny. It is the most trafficked route in the whole of Mora and Romesdal – 30,000 cars a day. There are three ferries that come into this bit. The crossroads, one of the most unfortunate places in More and Romesdal, is also not a very high priority. We want to scrape the Møreaksen and rather have the Romsdal Saxon. We want to bet on rv. 15, Otta–Målø–Strynfjellet, with his arm to Geiranger, which makes it all year round there. It's a stretch that's so important to large parts of the business in More and Romesdal. Then it's the most important thing: to rust up the export route number. one out of the county, namely E136 Dombås-Westnes, which we want to transfer to New Roads, a stretch that brings enormous values out of the county and out of the country. The drivers have one party to vote on in More and Romesdal, and that is the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2739	For the left, it has been a pleasure to work together for eight years, and there will be agreement on major additions in the NTP, the national transport plan, for rail and collective. Road today represents 50 pst., and for the first time we have raised railway and collective, bicycle and times to half of the national transport plan. This is also absolutely necessary, because we have offensive climate targets by 2030, and the transport sector is going to cut 50 pst. of the emissions. Norway is facing a green shift. The electric car bet is an important part of it, but the emissions have been cut a lot by putting biofuels on the tank as well, in a large monn. In addition, there are collective, bicycle and foot cuts, and with increased railway investment there will be further cuts. I have to say that I actually enjoyed taking the train on the Gjøvik train from Gjøvik station yesterday in new train sets. We've spent over 1 billion. kr on the old Gjøvik track from the 1800s during these eight years, and more so. When I came to Reinsvoll, it was a crossroads under construction. When I arrived at the Jaren station, there was a new station under construction and a new station for train sets. Still, the Gjøvik is the only distance that only has two-timer departures, so there's a lot left to do, but it's going to go the right way. And for the first time there's an NTP where there's full agreement that you should build double tracks up to Roa. I hope to be realized in a few years. Then I also have to say that establishing New Veier AS has been important. That's the majority here that's done it. I think as a politician that having something to compare with is absolutely essential. When you have only one road builder, one road planner, it's not that easy to do it. With Nye Veier we have got something to compare with, and they have challenged and done it in a good way. Especially in my geographical area, the Inland, they are now soon on tour across Mjösa – to start from the north in Øyer and build down to the new dairy bridge. We've also spent a lot of money on the yellow middle stripe in this NTP, and county roads are also an important part of it. The representative Tor André Johnsen was concerned that no one has heard of Hunndalen, but I can promise you, Johnsen: I am from Gjøvik, and I take the credit that Hunndalen is in the National Transport Plan. Tunnel and quadruple rv. 4 from Mjøsbrua to Hunndalen is important. It's important for the Inland. It's a new region that's growing up with a new big hospital. It is also important to get the traffic under Gjøvik city. It's been a debate all my life, and I'm over 50 years old.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2758	I promise that this is my last post from Stortinget's pulpit on transportation. And then I can't let the opportunity go from me to take a very small look back – but at the same time look at the continuation. With the Right in government, it's just for me it's been the best thing to face the Right and our drive through these eight years as big-time politicians from Northern Ireland. It's been about having a government that has prioritised what has been important for people and business in the north. In my posts at the national meetings of the Right and here at Stortinget, I have had a clear message about what is important to us in the North. It's been transportation, transportation, and transportation. Yes, we have a rich business life, but business also needs good framework conditions to develop, and one of the important framework conditions — yes, in addition to what we have done in the tax field, then — is transportation. And there's no doubt that the movement with the Right in government is historic. Infrastructure has been developed at a pace that never before, and appropriations have doubled over these years. We, as the elected trustees of the Right Party from the North, have traveled a lot and received many good recordings from the people and businesses of the North. We've been listened to, and the government delivers. Now the Norway holiday is at the door, and many of you will then take the holiday trip northward. Then you can enjoy driving on a fantastic great E6 through Helgeland. And then I'm glad that in the transport plan now presented, we have made a clear observation that it is important to complete the remaining route on the E6 Helgeland South. With the Right in Government, I'm sure that will happen during the coming NTP period. There are many good projects we have managed to work into this transport plan, which are important for business and for us who live in Northern Ireland. The importance of improving the fishing ports of Værøy, Røst and Andenes during the first part of the planning period, as well as the Narvik terminal and Narvik station – and not least the E6 tunnel in Narvik. It should also be noted that the construction of two new airports in Nordland — in Bodø and in Mo i Rana — through this transport plan is also a priority. Then I am very pleased with the job done here in Stortinget, now that there is a clear signal that a comprehensive planning of E10 in Lofoten will be carried out, and that the joint airport of Lofoten will be assessed when the progress of E10 is completed. Much more could have been said, but at least one thing is clear: a good transport plan has become even better after the treatment in Stortinget. And with the Right in Government, you can be sure of the continued priority of transportation forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2777	The time to look forward is usually at the end of each four-year period. The perspective message is pointing forward with a not always too optimistic view, while the national transport plan usually tends to have a much more positive starting point. In any case, the NTP that I've been with and treated before, in 2017, that. Then there was great optimism in my constituency, the South Dream Team. Then Nye Veier had just been established, and the new E6 both south and north of Trondheim was planned. Now the construction of both of these important sections is in progress. Unfortunately, we do not see the same optimism in the South-Tronde Team today, and it is not because the trophies in general have become less optimistic than before, but the NTP we are dealing with today does not provide a basis for great optimism, at least not on the road in my home country. The government now had the opportunity to see ten to twelve years ahead, but they have not found a single new national road project that is important enough in the South-Tronde Team. There might be two reasons for that. Either all roads, crossings and sections are completely tipped up and in radiant condition, or this government and the bulk of the population are now ignoring the transport challenges we have in Trøndelag. When I talk to voters at my home, there's little doubt about what might be right. We have a government and an opposition, with the Workers' Party and the Center Party at the head, who don't see the challenges south of the Trondelag. In 2013, four representatives of the city council in Trondheim voted that the Klettkärkte should be built as a full-scale two-plan crossing, so that the county might be the main crossroads linking E6, E39 and several county roads should handle the traffic that is there in a way that ensures road safety. The four representatives were all representatives of the Progressive Party. The other 63 representatives of the City Council, from all the other parties, voted against. After that, this has evolved into a real farce. The lot by lot has departed from what they themselves voted in the City Council, and rather asked the State to take the bill and the decision through the NTP. But what's happening here today? The government parties state in their comments that the cross is not optimal, that it is dangerous and that it is not good enough. The Working Party and the Center Party say the same thing. But there are no promises of money. It's completely blue when we can get a new roadside crossing for thousands of drivers every day. Gunn Iversen Stokke, rapporteur of the Central Party, was in the media before NTP was presented, demanding both money and a complaint. I hope now that she gets a complaint from her own at Stortinget, who had the opportunity to set aside money, but who allowed it to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2792	E18 Retvet-Vinterbro, the last part of the project E18 Riksgrensen-Vinterbro, is within the NTP. It should be a joyous day for all those who live along the road and use it as a local road, all those who commute from and to Inner Eastfold, and not least utility traffic in and out of Norway, but it may seem that several bumps remain before the road is ready. In August 2012, all the rapporteurs along the route, including myself, together with the county rapporteur in Østfold and the transport minister Magnhild Meltvej Kleppa from the Senterpartiet, were invited to take the first walk in the first couple, Momarken-Melleby. Fortunately, a lot has happened when it comes to planning new roads on these ten years. It is now time to complete the project in the last 4 km through Nordre Follo and Ås. Tracing and regulatory plan adopted a long time ago. That's the funding that's left. Once the NTP has been adopted, the Storting has committed the State to take almost 70 pst. of the cost. In addition, 100 million is proposed. to cross-road measures to prevent traffic leakage to local roads through agglomerations and communities. So this should be a happy day, but unfortunately it's a partial joy. The two rapporteurs in Nordre Follo and Ås have said a preliminary no to the proposals of the State Road Administration and the Department of Bomb Sections and Lateral Measures. All those using this route of accidents deserve a safer route — to school and leisure activities, to get milk from the farm to the dairies quickly, and to get salmon from the West into Europe safely and quickly. I agree with the representative Myrli in his description of NTP as a planning tool. That is why I hope he will have a talk with the rapporteurs in Nordre Follo and Ås, so we will avoid another speed bump in this project, because I have really tried. It's sad when it's the municipal self-government that's perceived as screwing in the wheel. Inhabitants, commuters and businesses deserve a solution to deal with as quickly as possible, so that we can lift the flag and eat cake when the road opens, as the representative Myrli said in his post earlier today. We have no more lives to lose, and we don't want any more hard damage to this route, Retvet-Vinterbro. That is why I wish this was an unspeakable day of joy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2807	The national transport plan is about building the country, and we see clearly that there are different levels of ambition from batch to batch. I'm happy to belong to the party that really wants to build the country, saying that spending money on the road has a self-esteem because it secures jobs, it makes people get to school, kindergarten and leisure activities, and it simply makes everyday life easier for most people and business. Hordaland needs a new route, as the President also knows. We have great racial challenges. Those who run between Bergen and Voss daily know that there is a heart in their throats. It's a big challenge. Therefore, it is important for us to build K5 and that we continue to plan all the way to Voss, with a new road on E16. Then it's important to connect the West by building Hordfast. For the Progress Party, Hordfast has always been important. It's a socio-economic profitable project, and it's important. I'll start to fool you a little bit when I see what the parts that are well suited to the gallop mean about Hordfast. The center party will have a new seminar and a new trasé discussion, SV will not have the project, and the Labour Party will not talk about the project and hope that there is no room for mention. This means that even if there is a multiple today for Hordfast, the option can change it. All those who are concerned about building the West and building the West together must make sure that after the election it actually becomes a multiple that does not consist of a red-green party, because then a project was put at great risk. I want to praise the government because they have been very clear on both of the two major projects in the West, but there is also a stop to the rose. It would have been logical that one had joined E16 and E39 and removed the bottlenecks one looks at Åsane – as people who are going to travel to Northern Hordeland, wear it every day – by building the ring road east through the Bergen. The government chose not to deposit it, but fortunately, after very much involvement from the local population and the Progress Party, the government party has at least put in a review and ambition to meet us in that area. I hope that they are still a few in it and vote for the proposal we have tabled. We're forced to complete the entire chain and not just start, but it's at least a movement that I'm happy for, from the government party. Racial protection is important. Tokagælet has its own comment about it; it's an important project in Hardanger. Then it's important for us to complete the project on Rv. 13, which we got into the state budget, between Kinsarvik and Hardangerbrua. It's very important that a person builds ambitiously, and that New Roads, who have been assigned, make a full recovery of the area, so that the unworthy situation that persists every summer does not remain. So it's very important that the Vikaberg is finally done with. There's a multiple in the room that wants it, and then there's a need to vote for the proposal that's leading, so that the Vikaberg not only gets fine words from a multiple, but actually a mandatory decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2824	There are over 330,000 people living in the Grorud Valley and Lower Rome. It's almost Bergen and Tromsø together. It is very important for the climate and the environment to have climate-friendly transport that uses little space. Then the T-Bahn is the best solution there. The extension of the T-Bahn from Ellingsrudåsen to Lørenskog and Lillestrøm will provide rapid transport for those working and living in Lower Romerike and Groruddalen. The T-Bahn will provide more space on the road for those who need to use it, when more people can take the road, and it will reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The national transport plan from 2018 had a T-Bahn for Lower Romerike. This government has forgotten the path. SV proposes to take a T-track solution for Lower Romerike into the national transport plan, from the Ellingsrudåsen to Lørenskog and with further extension to Lillestrøm and Kjeller. I think it's good that parties have different policies, so that people have real choices. What I don't like is that some parties talk to two tongues. For several years SV has worked for the T-Bahn for Lower Romerike. When the Workers' Party talks to voters and journalists, they have also said that they are for the Lørenskogban. But at Stortinget they have countered the plans with the T-Bahn and have not prioritised enough money in the budget for this project. Today the voters will know whether the Workers' Party is lying, or whether they are voting for what they say they are for: a T-Bahn from Ellingsrudåsen to Lower Romerike. The result of the vote will show whether the Workers' Party is telling the truth or not. I expect the Workers' Party to vote in favour of the SV's proposal, as several other parties will do. If not, electors in Rome and east of Oslo know that, and then the Workers' Party must stop promising projects that they vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2837	Today, students and parents from Høyenhall met school and residents at Manglerud up in front of the Stortinget and told them that traffic was choking them. It's quite serious. This problem can be solved by building a new Manglerut tunnel. It'll get the traffic away from the living environment where people live, and below the ground. With almost 100,000 vehicles thundering through the living area every day, I understand the frustration very well. Unfortunately, the City Council in this city, with the Workers' Party and the Green Party at its head, wants to pursue a policy based on generating queues, corks, chaos and noise – so much that the drivers will finally stop driving. It's not going to work. It's keeping the people of Manglerud hostage for a policy that won't work. What is perhaps even more disappointing is that the Right, Left, and Christian People's Party on the Biggest let them be allowed. They allow the Labour Party and the Green Party to continue with their kings in the City Council, even if they could stop it. Heidi Nordby Lunde from the Right said that they met outside the Stortinget today that the Right supports building the Manglerud tunnel, but that it is the city council's fault that it is not being built. I think that's nice. For in 2016, the then social figure from the Right said that it is no longer possible to allow large transport projects to be split up and delayed because there is disagreement in a municipality. It can no longer take 20-30 years for road projects to be realised, said the head of the Stortinget Transport Committee, Nikolai Astrup. In March this year, the government went in to introduce a government plan for E134 Daylight E18. That's exactly what the Progress Party is proposing today to build the Mangler Out Tunnel, to overrun the Environmental Party of the Greens and the Workers' Party in Oslo, which wants to keep the inhabitants hostage. The parties supporting the construction of the Mangleut Tunnel must vote in favour of that proposal. If it's not true, what you go around and tell the residents. I find it alarming that this will take so long. I find it alarming that parties support a policy based on making queues, corks, chaos and noise for the residents, to plague and whip them to stop driving a car. We're gonna have to end this. This could be achieved if the proposals of the Progress Party had been supported today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2850	The fasitator is that Finnmark has not been a winner in commerce in the last eight years. We now have only one project in progress: Skarvbergtunnel. Four years ago, the contractors in Alta had to quit their employees because of a job dryer, and despite the fact that the then Minister of Transport, Solvik-Olsen, boasted of the journey of time. The Labour Party has had the E45 divide within its priorities for the last eight years. The same applies to the completion of rv. 94 from Hammerfest to Skaidi. The government hasn't done anything about these projects in eight years. This year, too, we are giving priority to these projects in the first period and will ensure that they are launched quickly. If there is a change of government, the projects will be realised, not postponed, as we have experienced with the Progress Party in the driving seat of the Ministry of Transport. It is interesting to note that the Progress Party when they are not in government and run the Ministry of Transport, suddenly has 400 billion. kr more than the rest of the Stortinget. It's not credible and far above the limit of being unprofessional. The working party has set up a large pot for planning products. In this way, we will improve the winter regulation of the E6 Sennaland. Winter roads, which we often experience in Sennaland, prevent passengers, freight and sick transport to Hammerfest Hospital. The working party has an overall thinking linked to the entire corridor from Hammerfest to the Finnish border at Kivilompolo. This government has been depriving the development of fishing ports for eight years. They have transferred responsibility to the county councils, but it has not followed the money. The working party puts off a $1.8 billion pot. kr which counties may apply for in order to enable them to build up the ports of fishing and remunerate loans. This means that there is hope for the activity and expansion of many fishing ports in Finnmark: in South Weather, in Havøysund, in Mehamn, in Berlevåg and in other active fishing waters. But there's one prerequisite for solving this, and that's that we get a government shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2866	As the representative Myrli said before today, there is a lot that is good in NTP, also seen from the stand of Buskerud. Something has even improved through the treatment of the Storting. Where the government provided partial toll financing for the new Holmenbru in the Drammen, an overall committee now supports the State's full financing of the new bridge. It should really just be missing. Holmenbrua is the connection to the tribal networks of the Drammen, and the bridge lives on dispensation and borrowed time, with great doubts about road safety. The working party now assumes that investment in Holmenbrua is a priority, so that a new bridge can be realized quickly, and that this is followed up by the government in the state budget for 2022. That after a round of postponements and broken promises from the Solberg administration, it is now finally ready to start working with the Ringeriksbanen, is another positive case. It will have an enormous impact on business and further development in the Ringerix region. The municipality is well prepared and has invested considerable resources from its own pocket to exploit these opportunities. Therefore, it is absolutely essential that construction starts now not be delayed further, and that the transfer of responsibility to New Roads does not rock it. The working party has therefore provided additional funds for intercity, of which the Ringeriksbane is part. We also point to the possibilities on the Randsfjord Railway, with new passenger traffic. I could also say some positive things about E134, which I know the president is also concerned about, but what's not good is that the government is not able to rely on when it comes to agreements with local authorities. I am thinking about Gulskogen station in Drammen. Together with Bane NOR, the municipality of Drammen has saved the state for over 100 million. kr. in the context of new Vestfoldbane, according to the rapporteur, and contributed to practical solutions for setting up trains. In return, Bane NOR was to contribute to the collective hub of Gulskogen, with several public travellers, smaller queues, better urban air and new housing. The Gulskogen Centre was to contribute direct access from the station to the mall. So, when all is done, the state suddenly withdraws from the whole setup. Everything is exposed in an indefinite time. The plans of the local drama must be put on ice. At the same time, the government has also stepped into the wheels to achieve its own national targets for environmentally friendly and sustainable urban development. It's not acceptable. We are facing a formidable task with the green shift in business and in the development of future climate-friendly cities. Then it has to be completely new. I don't think we're going to achieve our climate goals if it's the NTP and the transport authorities alone that are going to control these processes in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2877	It is only the Progress Party that will clearly build a country-wide transport that takes seriously the challenges facing business and that takes seriously the distance between peoples, especially in my part of the country. Especially in Troms, where people live scattered, we have to build a road, and we can't rely on all sorts of climate solutions you have to think about in the capital. We have to build a road. It does the most with its alternative NTP. We take seriously the challenges facing business. We want the state to take back the roads on Senja. These are important ways of feeding, essential for fisheries. We want the state to take responsibility for building the Håkøy connection in Tromsø. It is absolutely necessary and important to develop the capital in North Norway. And we are clear that we must continue the Hålogaland road without tolls and build into Harstad – not stop right after Tjeldsundbrua, but build all the way into Harstad. If you want to connect the region, if you want to connect business, you have to build all the way, not just piecely and divided. I'm glad that we've got a majority, at least in notes, that we're going to realize and build the important Evenes cross. It is essential to put it in place, both for defence purposes, for business reasons and for further development of the region. But one of the things I have to say is that I'm very, very happy, is that we've got a very clear agreement, not only with the red-green parties, but also with the government parties, it looks like gradually, which at least in the form of comments is clear that we want to realise the improvement of traffic safety measures for the E8 – the main road into the capital of the county, Tromsø – secure it with middle parts, get in place traffic safety there and continue it, because it has cost lives. But then I also hope that the same parties will support the clear proposal of the Progress Party on the exact same thing – to set aside half a billion and realize the traffic safety measures projects that are absolutely necessary on the E8 in Lavangsdalen – that you not only stand for it in notes, but also do so in decisions. Then there's a little thing that's at the end of the case list today, about extending the toll package to Harstad. That is what the Progress Party is against. It's not because we don't want to realize the projects, we're going to do that, but we're going to do that with government funds, not bother people with even more tolls.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2890	E134 goes from Karmøy to Frogn and is prioritised to start six projects in the first period. This is the most important connection between east and west south of Hardangervidda. When one listened to my colleague from the Progress Party, Bård Hoksrud, earlier today, it did not seem that E134 is a priority throughout the national transport plan. That's not true. There has been a lot of E134 in recent years, with road projects on Kongsberg, a tunnel between Hjartdal and Seljord and repairs from Seljord to Åmot in the municipality of Vinje. That one now adds a passage from Saggrenda in Kongsberg to Elgsjö in the municipality of Notodden, a new tunnel in the Oslofjord link and the extension of the road project, even for Arne Nävra, Dagslett-Linnes in the first six-year period and two important projects on the west side, Röldal-Seljestad and Bakka-Solheim, will contribute to a safe and secure road that binds east and west even closer together. These are projects that start for the first six-year period, and with good comments on the road further to ensure winter safe road over Haukeli with the projects Seljestad–Vågsli as construction steps further in the second period. The creation of New Roads AS, according to most people's perceptions, has been a success. Since its inception, the company has opened a 81 km new four-field road and has a holistic approach when prioritizing which road to build. The majority has given New Vegar AS a mandate to give priority to monitoring the projects on the basis of socio-economic profitability. In the event of a change of government, there are now many who are concerned about the future of New Vegar AS, for the Socialist Left Party will shut down the company, and the Central Party will go away from the New Vegar AS Board of Directors taking decisions to prioritize the follow-up. They want political governance of the decisions. And the Labour Party replied a little wretchedly in the replication today early on on what the future New Vegar has. The leadership of a limited liability company such as New Vegar is incredibly important, and of course, the Right's view is that this is one of the success factors of New Vegar AS, and they must continue this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2905	Front page of the Official Journal of Bergen now: ‘Digree blocks may crash into the road. E39 through North Hordland is likely to have to be closed for a whole week.’ There shall be cracks up to half a metre in the mountain area. The largest blocks on the mountain side are estimated to be 150-200 tonnes. Welcome to Hordaland! Few policy areas create more local involvement than transport policy. This year we will deal with the national transport plan while the country is in the middle of a pandemic. This should lead to greater priority of preparedness, safe roads, improved maintenance and not least racial protection. In December of last year, the state road service produced the latest updated figures, which showed that 71 billion were needed. to race the Norwegian road network in nearly 1200 different locations. In the West alone, 40 billion is needed. kr. The centre party now believes that there is a need for a national implementation plan for the tailoring of all highways and highways with a high or medium step factor. It's time – life and health first. So something more joyous. It is the eastern ring road, the E39 Vågsbotn–Klauvaneset, which the centre party prioritizes, the eternal second-period road. I'm proud of Åsabu; this is my way. He has not been much to be able to reach now, but with a development with strong population growth and industrial development both in North Hordland and in Bergen, the road standard today is far below demand. Åsane's been waiting for years for this tunnel. People have our patience and disappointment. Already in 1995 Bergen's magazine wrote that it was against agreement on the new Åsane tunnel and that he would be ready in 2005. Neighbors feel that they've been fighting for a long time for nothing. On the road between Vågsbotn and Klauvaneset, 15 people have lost their lives since the North Hordlandsbrua opened in 1994. The daily traffic has increased from 7,000 cars to over 20,000 cars on a road that is less than six metres wide. At 3 km in length, there are 25 unregulated discharges that daily create dangerous situations. Without a tunnel past the area, more than one person will be severely damaged or die every year, according to the state's own calculations. Tunnel past the site is one of the most socio-economically profitable projects in the state road transport portfolio. Nevertheless, the government had rejected the route in the proposal for a new national transport plan. The government's lack of prioritization of this route upset people who live in and travel through this area north of Åsane. People from the Haukås and Hordvik line have shown a dissatisfaction by going over the transition field every day between 12 and 13 for two months, from 19 April until now. I was there talking to them, and they don't do it for themselves, but for their children and grandchildren, so that maybe they can experience a safe environment. Finally, there is a terrible error in the setting on page 157. The centre party should not have been in the last part of the comment, because of course we support state resources to the Åsane urban runway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2925	This proposal for a national transport plan was a betrayal of the 300,000 inhabitants of Eastfold. For over 20 years we have been promised a new and modern railway in our district – with double tracks. But we've been kept too fooled. The promises made by the representatives of the civil parties before the elections to complete double-track deployment more quickly have been broken. Now the government has tracked down the entire project. It gets too expensive, says the Minister for Transport. But it's nothing more expensive to extend the railway to Eastfold than anywhere else, like the Ringerix Railway, to mention an example. Then it becomes clear that the government is depriving Eastfold of building other things elsewhere, such as new, polluting motorways, for example. Several take-offs by faster trains and fewer delays and new and modern railways with double tracks all the way – it is the most important project for both climate and value creation in Eastfold. Then we should no longer find ourselves in being forgotten. But it also affects more and more than just Eastfold, because this is the gateway to Europe. E6 will be full soon. There are thousands of trailers going over the Svinesund every single day. The whole east country, yes, the whole country suffers from the fact that intercity is being down-prioritized. Therefore, SV proposes to continue the construction of the Eastfold Railway all the way to the Swedish border and complete the entire intercity, including the outer part – first to Fredrikstad during this period, and then the goal is throughout the 12-year period. Now all the parties have the opportunity to show whether they keep their promises or not during voting. And it will be noticed in Eastfold who votes for what. We also want to connect all of the former state to the railway. Today it is almost impossible to travel collectively between inner and outer Eastern folds. It doesn't have to be like that. There is a flowing new, fine and state-of-the-art railway line between Rakkestad, which is the end stop for the east line, and Sarpsborg, which is used for nothing but testing today. It has fought for a number of years to open up both freight and passenger transport. Only from Rakkestad, it now commutes almost 2,000 people out of the municipality every day to work. With a train offer here you'll be able to travel collectively between the two parts of the county, and we can move goods from road to track. It is important for example: for important holdings in the counties such as Borregaard and Saugbruks. Now SV proposes this in the national transport plan, and it goes against the majority in favour of the proposal. It's very joyful and a great breakthrough for Eastfold. Finally, SV has money for what we prioritise, such as building the double track further through Østfold – 8 billion. kr more to railway a year than the government proposal, a total of almost 100 billion. kr more to railway during the 12-year period. When you re-prioritize from large, new motorways and increased air traffic to the railways, that's possible. It shows SV's configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2940	The center part saw life and health first. Racial protection and safe appearance must then be prioritised. The national racial protection group has done a thorough job and delivered clear priorities, and it must follow up. The follow-up to the maintenance of the county roads is dramatic in many counties, and the centre part prioritizes the county roads. E16 Arna–Voss is headed to Norway's most dangerous road. The Arna–Stanghelle K5 option must now be activated. We need to get started at the same time. The joint project must leave the project leader free to plan for optimal progress for faster implementation, and one must continue the planning between Stanghelle and Voss. The government has decided that New Vegar AS will take over the Ringerix Railway and E16. They're going to get a more holistic expansion, they say. But then the K5 joint project has to have the same conditions. There is a lot of talk about New Roads making things more effective, but if we are to get a real comparison here, one must at least expect the different actors to have equal opportunities. Then one can consider who does the best work. Bakka-Solheim is a part of E134 with a lot of traffic without a yellow middle stripe. So we've given priority to this distance. We talk a lot about the follow-up to the maintenance of county roads. But what about rv. 13, Fjordvegen? So it's a highway that's not being upgraded. The government has transferred this part of the route to New Roads without increasing the annual budgets. If we are to have an upgrade of this road, it must be for means. We have added funds to the Vika mountain in addition to Kinsarvik-Bu. A stretch like the Vika mountain is so much connected that you can't have a bus route there in the winter, so we can't have it. Nor can it be that New Roads should be set when Rv. 13 shall be rusted up. We must have political control over this. There is a lot of talk about a lot of expansion with this government. I would like to remind you that this government has not started a new project in Hordaland since NTP in 2017. One project was in Hordaland at the time – it was the Sotra connection, but it is not yet going on. So it's time for Hordaland to get its fair share of these expansions. We also have to make the siesta to build well enough. One doesn't need four-field road at 110 km/h for all places. One must be built according to what one has. I would like to remind you that the K5 option between Voss and Bergen is a two-field road. The most important thing for us is that it is a safe way, and that it is safe running for all parties. I'll come back with the rest.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2957	Modern and efficient road, rail, collective and broadband transport solutions are the main means of regional policy. It is essential to support the growth potential of District Norway, which has the important industries that pay for well-being. This applies, inter alia, to: the shipbuilding, forestry, forestry and aquaculture industries. The latter exports 37 million salmon meals every day, and most of it carries cars to markets in Europe. Since 2013, the traffic appropriations have almost doubled, and Trøndelag is one of the traffic gains with the investment of around 60 billion. kr, including bonds in this NTP. E6 is the main artery through the Trendelag, and that's why I'm very happy with this NTP. It's historic when we finally build coherent, modern and secure E6 throughout the county. We have already realized the E6 south of Trondheim, and Ranheim–Værnes is under the control of the success of Nye Veier. The same applies to E6 Whitehammar-Åsen. The planters are in full swing, and it smells asphalt all over the Trendelag. There's a lot of activity in the contractor and supplier industries. In this NTP, we also ensure that the Åsen–Steinkjer and Selli–Asp sections are included in the New Vee portfolio. In addition, the State Road Service shall build the E6 Grung-Nordlands border for approximately 3 billion. kr. The tread is modernised and electrified, initially until Stjørdal, and the Meråkerbahn is electrified. In addition, we get new train sets and half-hour departures on the entire Trunder Railway by 2027. If not enough, we have also used approx. 500 million. kr on the expansion of broadband in Trøndelag. I would also like to mention the county road, where the state will now take an even greater share in important economic and commuting routes. A good NTP has become even better through the streamlining of the message. For Trøndelag, this means that the E14, which we provided for planning funds at the current NTP, is now starting in the first period of the new plan. E14 is an important transport corridor for Sweden, with significant freight and timber transport and high accident loads. The right also recommends that the E14 section be included in the New Wegener portfolio. This means that the barrel can travel safer and faster along the main road network, either on the way to or from work or on other occasions. Modern transport solutions provide more housing and labour market regions and create greater mobility and attractiveness in the region with the most optimistic and innovative business. Dream layers are part of the solution when we're going to speed Norway up again and get people back to work, when we're going to create more and include more.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e2974	Bad roads cost business an enormous amount of money because it takes longer to get the goods out to the market. It threatens Norwegian jobs and is negative for the environment. Therefore, better roads will secure people's jobs, and we will be able to create more jobs for people. It can be clearly seen that the level of ambition of the government of Solberg has fallen dramatically since the Progress Party left the government corridors, and they reduce the investment for road purposes by nearly 30 billion. kr in relation to our last NTP. For Finnmark, which has mainly road as its only means of transport, this will have enormously negative significance. Unfortunately, Finnmark does not find it worth mentioning that considerable efforts should be made on trains and tracks. The Progress Party has ambitions for a real trade promise, also in Finnmark, and I record that it is being duly criticised, especially by the Workers' Party. Then the situation is as normal as it can be, because the Workers' Party has never had such ambitions, and unfortunately they don't seem to have it in the future either. The Labour Party uses words such as ‘populism’ and ‘realistic’ about the progress of the Party on trade in Finnmark, not unlike the arguments they used when the Progress Party targeted the job in order to remove the toll collection on E6 west of Alta. But we removed the bomb! Nor is it different from the arguments they used when the Progress Party increased the cost framework of the last red-green NTP in 2013, from 606 billion. NOK 1064 billion. kr, but the Progress Party also implemented it. The list is a long list of projects The Progress Party has set out to achieve a transport lift for Finnmark. Here, the Workers' Party and the Centre can largely choose and choose projects to improve the transport solutions in Finnmark, but they choose instead of voting against these projects. The concrete proposals that the Labour Party and the Centre will vote against are: accelerate E45 Split, starting in 2022 co-operation E45 Split with project E45 Eiby, a road-safe solution for better accessibility of E45 past Eiby, which will bring good socio-economic benefits E6 Upper bay west – Hesseng with current bridge, start and finish in the first period E6 Brilliant transparencies, means of completion in 2022 E6 Tana bru – Skippagurra, walk and cycle path along existing E6 E6 parsell 1, new E6, start-up and completion in the first period E6 Alta Brussel Parsell 2, Brussel Solution South-west port, port-basin extension Mehamn, expanse of fairway accelerated entry of Vardø to the first period new cruise and multipurpose skis in Alta Banak airport, civil aircraft production site and turning circles in both lane ends Now it should be mentioned that the Workers' Party supports some of our comments on these projects, but when there are concrete proposals for implementation, they jump off. Unfortunately, there is no money with the comments of the Workers' Party and the Centre's party, nothing but greetings at home without obligations.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3025	I'm not going to say that it's completely black with the NTP that is somehow going to be adopted today or tomorrow morning, but to say that it's a little ambitious, at least I have coverage for. It tempts me to claim that the government is failing. It is failing large parts of the country, and unfortunately it is also causing the Workers' Party and the Centre's party. But there is one party that stands out positively – and now I'm not going to brag about the Progress Party, there's no doubt that we have the most ambitious and the best NTP – and now it's a shame that the representative Nävra isn't here, because I want to praise Nävra and SV a little because they're at least betting and having an ambition. They're on the railroad. The error is that they are going to finance the development of the railways by actually slaughtering the road construction. They should not only shave, but cut significantly in the road construction – almost 100 billion. kr or above – to finance railway construction. Otherwise I have to say it's impressive that at least they have some credibility, because they're funding their railway projects. What is a little disappointing about both the Workers' Party and the Government – perhaps the most opposition, especially the Workers' Party and the Centre Party – is that they have put in a lot of projects that they have not funded. I think it is nice that we have had a cooperation between the Center Party and SV in the case of Hamar Airport. I think that is very positive. There's a common comment. After the signals I received from the Hamar Workers' Party, there is an agreement in the Workers' Party, at least in Hamar, to take care of the Hamar Airport. I look forward to the Workers' Party's representatives contributing a little. Now I see the representative Myrli coming into the hall, so maybe he'll come up with some wise words afterwards. At least it is gratifying to see that there are more people in this room who see the importance of taking care of local airports, especially if you think forward-looking about the investment that comes on electric aircraft gradually, and how important airports are for emergency reasons. Among other things, there was a fire in the interior at the latest yesterday and it is important to be able to have fire protection with flight readiness. We got a lot of criticism from the Workers' Party that there was a lot of cake pissing and broken promises. I'm sorry, but I don't understand if it was really criticism by the government, the Progress Party or maybe both. I have to say that those who have broken lifts and eaten a lot of cake, and who have pretended that they should open a lot of way and cut many strings, are the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV. They're probably Norwegian masters at planning things that are never realized. That's exactly what we cleaned up in, when we came into government, together with the Right, Left and Christian People's Party. Then we made sure to establish New Roads, which does not plan any things that are not being built. That we're being accused of pie pissing and broken promises, I just don't fully understand. This applies to the evaluation of the reforms. To the Workers' Party, I want to say that you really just have to get out on the road network and see what it looks like. There is no doubt that New Veger is a success. There's no doubt that it works.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3036	The most important thing in this case is to have transport years that are safe, open 24 hours, predictable and up-to-date for today's traffic, for people who travel, will come from a to b quickly. The same applies to freight traffic. I come from a beautiful village called Valsøyfjord. There we have E39 without the possibility to put a yellow stripe on the road once. The road was more like a cultural memory after narrow herb paths earlier. Finally, fortunately, the Stoltenberg government took hold of it and began to repair the road. The ladies there knitted yellow stripe to improve the road further, and now luckily big things happen there. If we see More and Romesdal as a whole, I can comfort you that we are not exactly spoiled by getting development funds in terms of the infrastructure. We have one 90-zone. It's at 5 km – wow! We have 17 ferry routes, and many of them close at 5 p.m. 12th@item: inlistbox In view of the 24-hour opening, it will be closed early. We have Rv. 15, which has challenges with winter conditions, and we have 20 km/h on a stretch of E136 where it now runs trailers with 24 meter trailers. It's a traffic pattern that's changed a lot since the roads were built, and it's important to do something about it now. We have waited a long time for the E136 to be given priority, but we see that New Roads should have the opportunity to build it, and we are again uncertain whether this is being done now. The working party has been working on improving the road between Molde and Ålesund for a long time, and we have three ferry-free routes that we want to build in the long term. We are pleased that this NTP approves the Møreax and that it is a majority in favour of it. It is not right, as Mr Listhaug said in the Chair, that no one is in favour of the Moorax. It's completely wrong. It's flying home today. Many are relieved and happy that we are finally approaching construction. The party of progress is out to mislead the people. First they supported the Moorax until 2019, then they went against it because they were against the tunnel, and then they went for the Romsdal shaft. Now the Romsdal Saxon wants to unload the tunnel, so they're probably going to go against it too. They claim that if we do not have the Moorax, we can get that money to distribute to local measures. That's not the world, and I don't think there are very many people who can trust and feel safe in a party that has such a policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3047	On 23 April I attended a digital meeting with several rapporteurs at Nord-Jären and the Food Association at Stavanger. The main message was clear and clear. The rapporteurs in Gjesdal, Sandnes and Bjerkreim wanted New Veier to take over the main responsibility for Hove-Ålgård. The advantages of having New Wegener take over are obvious, said the three rapporteurs. They said that the continuous four-field road from Sandnes, Ålgård and beyond can be realized much faster, to the joy of business, municipalities and residents alike. Planning and development can be seen in the context of the further construction of New Veiger south of Ålgård, as they are also responsible for Ålgård-Lwigal, and the road project is being lifted out of the urban package, where there is already a need between projects. This is in full agreement with the Progress Party. That is why we have today tabled proposal No. 61: ‘The Government asks the Government to assign the E39 Ålgård–Hove to the portfolio of New Veger.’ Then I wonder, who is in the Workers' Party and the Center Party having a lack of impact? Is it the local rapporteurs in Sandnes, Gésdal and Bjerkreim who do not win in their own party, or do they win in the hands of their local elected representatives, but then stops the breakthrough of Myrli and the representative Mossleth, and Hadia Tajik and Geir Pollestad do not win? The consequence of today's decision is in any case that we see the rapporteurs running around in the local media, saying what they are fighting for, while the parties at Stortinget are doing the opposite and voting down exactly what their own rapporteurs are asking for. We were able to read in the Gäsdalbogen that New Roads are ready this morning and that the route is at the top of the wish list. The Progress Party also believes that the best thing to do is to plan and build the entire stretch between Lwagal and Sandnes. It gets cheaper, and one avoids that Ålgård becomes an unacceptable bottleneck. Unfortunately, only the Progress Party is clear on this today. So on another theme: The Storting will today adopt projects for 2.97 billion. SEK to Finnmark in the next 12 years, of a total of 1205 billion. kr. It is 0.25 pst., and it is supported by the Right, the Labour Party, the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The Labour Party is talking about that now is the common people's turn, the Center Party believes in the whole country, Right builds the country, but Finnmark is apparently neither part of the whole country nor populated with ordinary people. In contrast to the other parties, the Progress Party has a big-time representative from Finnmark who fights for the county and wins out in his own party. Due to Bengt Rune Strifeldt's representative, the Progress Party proposes twelve specific projects, which he has duly mentioned. But the same parties are going to vote them down and thus show that, unfortunately, the election campaign word consists only of empty words.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3060	The centre party believes that this is essential for the development of rv. 4 that you get a clarification of what is referred to as the Fossil Diagonal, out of Oslo and northward. This is going to be a solution that makes sure to connect rv. 4 with rv. 163, East Aker road and E6. The centre party believes that the Reinsvoll-Jaren route is an important route for the Raufoss industry. The section has an annual traffic of 5,600, with a heavy-duty car share of 15 pst. Riksveg 4 over Lygna can be very challenging in winter, and the distance past Eina and Eina is the oldest part of Rv. 4th@item: inlistbox Work should be started to ensure the repair or construction of a new road as a substitute for the current route. The centre party has been clear about this all along, and we want the portfolio of New Veger up until the year, and not least until the Hagan tunnel is expanded in the second period, and we are promoting a proposal for that portfolio to be expanded. In addition, it is Ferens-Hande. It's a nutritional path that needs better promotion. It's the last big bottle of E6 through Valdres. The conversion of E16 outside the centre of the Ferne will be important for commercial and other transit traffic, for local traffic and for road safety. The centre party suggests a start of 1 billion. kr in the first period and SEK 1,2 billion. kr in the second period, so that this project is fully financed. We are also promoting a proposal on this. Route 15 over Strynefellet is an important east-west corridor for passenger and commercial transport. An important part of the transport of food is fish and furniture. In total, this represents an annual valuation of 70 billion. kr. Kurvatur, bering and width are not up-to-date on most of the distance. This affects accessibility, road safety and preparedness. The three tunnels from the Stryn Mountain in the direction of Stryn are disassembled. They lack their height and width and pose a safety risk to accident and fire. The center part will add 1 billion. kr in the first period and SEK 3,4 billion. kr in the second period for the implementation of this project. Finally, there are still allegations that the projects submitted by the Centre Party are not funded. I believe that the representative of the Advance Party in particular must go in and read the document. It's not 50 cents of what we've proposed, which is not inside and is part of the financing plan with an increased framework of 5 billion. kr and a redispatch of money from the first to the second planning period. So maybe it's not as much as the Progress Party has put in, 400 billion. kr, but what is there is at least funded. There should be no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3075	It is good that there has been a lot of focus on Rv. 4 here today. This indicates that there are many parties that see that there is a need to do something about rv. 4th@item: inlistbox There has been a period of changing Progress Party-transport ministers where nothing has happened to Rv. 4th@item: inlistbox Fortunately, there was a change, and I want to praise Hareide for getting him back on track again. The 4th extension on Hadeland from Gran border to Roa. That was absolutely necessary. There were many demolished houses there, people had moved from their houses, but nothing happened on the Guard of the Advance Party in the Ministry of Transport. Gjøvik–Moelv has now been introduced as a project in this NTP. That's absolutely necessary. But we have to move on. Therefore, the Workers' Party has put funds into its alternative to NTP to initiate design and possible start-up both on Rv. 4 and on other roads in Uppland that it's important that we get started. What surprises me a lot about this matter is that the Progress Party has now suddenly begun to give priority to Rv. 4, after they've been sitting with the Minister of Transport for so many years, and they're running around and telling us how to get this in place with a financing arrangement that no one else in this room joins. It must be quite demanding to see that you do not have any friends when you are going to provide an NTP that contains much more money. And it's not just the money used here, which is quite demanding, because as I understand it, you're going to use the entire investment fund to remove parts of the toll debt. The rest will probably also have to be removed, and then a good part of the 400 billion will have to be used to eliminate tolls, and then, in the future, the return of the investment fund will be missing. It is not in the budgets of the Progress Party. I could imagine challenging the Progress Party to tell which of the projects under New Roads to start up first and last. It is not that you can just start up all the projects that New Veger is responsible for, sail with the budget of the Progress Party, and we who sit on the Stortinget are still challenged on which roads are to be built first and last. But there's one thing that's certain: if the New Roads are going to expand the individual sections, we don't have to discuss this at Stortinget, because then we leave it to the board of New Roads, and then there will be someone quite different from us to decide which roads to build. That's why we have a good proposal, a good setup for our NTP, which I hope we'll be able to implement when we get into government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3088	There is a large industrial effort in Agder in wood-based industry and battery production. Morrow Batteries shall be established in Arendal and a new biozin plant on its way in Åmli. To get these goods safely to the market, a better way is needed. The Progress Party considers that the highway linking the E18 with the Arendal port and the industrial operation in the area provides the basis for defining the road as an important economic pathway and thus reclassifying the road to the national road and assigning financial responsibility to the State. The Progress Party has therefore proposed 500 million. kr for construction of this road during the first planning period of NTP. It is also an important nutrient route in the Lindesnes region. New Wegener has agreed to build a new route from E39 if Spangereidwegen enters the NTP with funding during 2021. As is currently the case, there are no obligatory proposals which have a majority in the Grand Duchy. The Progress Party primarily wanted these two road sections and the expansion of the Arendal fairway to enter the NTP with state funding. It does not get a majority, and that is why we are today promoting a compromise to which we are asking the Labour Party and the Centre to listen carefully. By the end of 2021, we are asking the government together with Agder County Municipality and the two municipalities Arendal and Lindesnes to find solutions to realise the project. This project is essential to ensure further industrial development and is fully in line with the priorities and projects set up by the NHO, the actors involved, the county council and the municipality. I record that the Christian People's Party is very pleased with its own grant scheme from the government to the county roads, but for every single constituency and old county municipality it amounts to 39 million. kr per year. For $39 million. kr this year it will not be possible for Agder County to realize these two very important export routes in our region, unfortunately. That is why it is absolutely essential for us to bring the Workers' Party and the Centre to this proposal. Finally, I would like to say that I do not understand why the government parties and the Workers' Party would definitely have Arendal municipality into a reward scheme if they established a bombing. Is there a state pressure on local bombings we see the contours of here? Grimstad, Arendal and Tvedestrand have voted this down, no later than 2019. I have not met a single person in central roles here who will acknowledge that they are working to start a new treatment of it. Who in the world is the one who's been pressured by today's Stortingen to allocate 120 million. kr in reward funds for municipalities that do not want the money? Rather, this money should have been used to invest in important economic pathways in the region and speeded up economic development. I would like, on behalf of the Progress Party, to address the resolved proposals I have made on the matter, and I hope that the Labour Party and the Central Party will support them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3101	The representative of Åshild Bruun-Gundersen has drawn up the proposal No. 354, 355 and 356.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3106	This is going to be my last post on Stortinget. It's okay that the matter is NTP. Over almost 40 years of popular choice, this has been a major concern for me, seen from Karmøy and Rogaland. Viewed from there, I believe today's setting means a crossroads. This part of Norway is located in the middle of the big cities of Bergen and Stavanger/Sandnes. Rail is a foreign resort between Boknafjorden and Björnafjorden, but the region is unique with the shortest road east-west as the national transport corridor E134 to the central eastern region, including Grenland. Nord-Rogaland and Sunnhordland are very important industrial areas for the Norwegian economy with the highest levels of data competence, maritime services, shipbuilding, breeding facilities, energy production and the petroleum industry. I will point to significant clusters of nutrition at Bømlo, Stord and Tysnes, within Windfjord, in Haugesund, at Tysvær and on Karmøy. I would like to mention someone: Westcon, Fatland Group, Granberg Garveri, Omega, Hatterland, Stord Verft, Wärtsilä, Aibel, Hydro, Karmøy factories, Gassco, Kårstø, Solstad Offshore and the shipping companies in Haugesund. This is best for the Western world, as well as for fisheries and agriculture: high value creation, entrepreneurial spirit and willingness to take action — everything with a central location by the sea, between major cities and the shortest road to the east. All of these establishments are completely dependent on the 24-hour cycle of E134 with hundreds of daytime trailers. They depend entirely on full operation at Haugesund Airport, a project together with Haugaland Kraft that itself shows the stand-on will in the region. E134 and Karmøy Airport are the main channels today, and together with Karmsund Port IKS this constitutes a transport structure with a significant international perspective with high value for the coastal region. I would strongly argue that the national importance of the region is unfortunately under-communicated. Today, I can see that today’s NTP decision means joyous new conditions for the region: the restoration of E134 s, a new tunnel at Røldal, the start of the Bakka–Solheim project and a new road to Karmsund Port. When we also wait for the E39 Rogfast and Hordfast against Bergen to be realized, I would like to thank those parties who have understood and supported the setting. The region is ready for new challenges over land, through air and with more cargo over sea. Just think of Haugaland Food Park Gismarvik, with Norway's largest pre-regulated industrial area. At the same time, I would like to thank and praise the truck industry, the drivers, the municipalities and the voters who have pressed and shown confidence. Thanks to business associations, businesses and organisations that have contributed materially and seriously to producing needs and facts over many years. I would particularly like to highlight and thank Minister of Transport Knut Arild Hareide and his competent staff. The region has thought that we had a legitimate wish, and we now experience that the region has been heard, also in a demanding coronary age. I would like to thank you for all the measures relating to Rogaland in other areas, subsidies to county roads, etc. Something will always remain, such as Karmsund bridge. Finally, I would like to thank the presidency, the staff and elected colleagues in the United Kingdom for their good cooperation over seven years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3125	Then the President would like to have his thanks back!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3130	The national transport plan is a fairly comprehensive document, both in the version submitted by the government and in the configuration of the Committee. Nevertheless, I think it is important to stress that this is a plan. If it is to be put into practice, we need binding decisions and money in this room. This applies both to the whole plan and to individual projects that you want to prioritise. It is sad to read that last week the Workers' Party decided that they will vote against all the proposals of the Advance Party, even though they are in some comments. Notes are beautiful words, decisions are action. So the working party is a member of beautiful words, but it's an opponent of action. This includes, inter alia: in the case of Northern Ireland, that the Workers' Party will vote against the completion of the last two E6 Helgeland South Parcels. The working party will vote against the deployment of the E6 Narvik tunnel and crossing tracks on the Ofot track. The working party will vote against improvements to ensure better winter conditions on Salt Mountain and Bjørn Mountain. The Labour Party will also vote against the extension of Brønnøilden and Ballstad Hafen, E10 Fiskebøl-Nappstraumen and the extension of Leknes Airport Lofoten. And maybe the biggest lifting break: the Workers' Party will vote against free ferries from 2025. The Progress Party wants to strengthen the whole of Northern Ireland, and we are therefore asking the government to award Rv. 80 and E6 Fauske-Bodø to Nye Veier. But really, we're not that big in the north, we only have a couple of superior desires: we in North Norway want yellow stripe in the middle of the road, as most of the rest of the country has, and we want people who live and work in the districts, who live along the coast and on the islands out in the sea, to have a ferry and boat offer that makes it possible to continue living and working there. The county has 25 pst. Of Norway's coastline, and we have dozens of ferry and boat routes, so we want people to live there, I guess, is no surprise. The progress party takes the people seriously, we put the money on the table. Roads are built with money, and ferry and boat routes are operated with money. And the 400 billion we're not going to cash out tomorrow, we're going to distribute them over twelve years, and then there's not much money. Action and binding decisions are the ones that apply – not beautiful words, which are, in effect, leading the people behind the light.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3143	First of all, I would like to refer to what the representative Toppe said. It is true that there is an error in the setting on page 157 about the Åsane urban path. The centre lot is contained in the note that it is planned to place an environmental lid in the area but is not included in the last nine lines of that note. Before I start my post, I would like to comment on some of what the representative Finstad and the representative Ebbesen have said. They're very pleased with what's happening in the north, but it seems like they've completely forgotten that everything that's happening in Helgeland North and Helgeland South was out there in the transport plan that the red-green ones put forward. So there are some bets that have come, and it should just be missing, it's important bets, but when you look directly at the priority of tied funds with start-up by 2022, is just 2.3 pst. in North Norway. The representative Johnsen has not realized that we have funding for all our road projects, but we have. It is quite remarkable that the Progress Party has promoted solutions that are directly angled at our alternative NTP, with Rv. 13 The Vikaberg Tunnel and Rv. 15 The Stryne Mountain Tunnel, where they've put in exactly the amounts that we have in our alternative. But they could have saved themselves, because the Central Party has put forward proposals on this without referring directly to the amounts in the proposals. They're in our table, and we had hoped that more people could join in and vote for the proposals when we didn't have quite concrete amounts. As far as the many proposals of the Progress Party are concerned, there are two missing. Where are the E6 Wolfswagskaret and the winter road E6 Sennaland?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3154	As a mountain, and not least as a representative of the Stortinget from the region, I think this is a good thing, which clearly shows how the Progress Party prioritises business and people most in the mountain area. Then, of course, I'm talking about the E39 and the Ringweg East. When I was elected to Hordaland, I especially promised the mountain people that I would continue the fight we have fought locally for a long time. Today, I would like to extend a great thank you to Bård Hoksrud and our transport fraction, to Marte Monstad in our urban government group, to the business community, and not least to all the residents on both sides of the bridge, who, in close cooperation with us in the Progress Party, have fought that the Progress Party should give priority to Bergen's main transport project. Erna Solberg and the Minister for Transport forgot, unfortunately, Ringweg East, so this is a clear message from the Progress Party that we believe this is a project that must be in place in the first period. This is also 19 billion good reasons why the people of the region should vote for the Progress Party at the elections in September. I saw with my own eyes the disappointment in Bergen and North-Hordaland when the government presented the National Transport Plan. Today in this room you actually have an opportunity to do something about it, and I really hope that will happen. This is a road that is vital for the population and industry, and which has been waiting for a long time. Not least, it is important to see the whole of this project now when you also need to take Hordfast and a new road to Voss. In fact, you have to deliver to Bergen. That is why the Progress Party has today presented a proposal that enables all politicians in this Chamber who have held speeches on this beautiful project to actually commit themselves. We want to challenge the other parties on Stortinget to participate in a decision to prioritize appropriations for this project. Without binding decisions by the Storting to set aside money and to suggest when projects are to be launched, their comments in the National Transport Plan are simply empty promises. So my heartfelt prayer to them today is: End the celebrations, and vote for proposal no. 365 from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3165	I have been so lucky to be able to discuss the last five–six national transport plans that have been discussed here so far. I was also with and discussed road and rail plans before that, and I have become painfully aware that this is not a matter of allocation – it is a big message, and the money may come later. In that period, there have been many small and big things. It has been road number, it has almost been down on turns to be fixed, and there has at least been a cross that should do something about it. For us in Westfold, the whole time I've been there has been two big things. One is the main roadway E18 through Westfold. There I am very pleased that it was first Kjell Opseth that made it possible to think four fields through Westfold by having two tunnels north of Westfold, and not least Terje Moe Gustavsen who in the National Transport Plan 2001 decided that there would be four-field motorway throughout Westfold. It's now 20 years ago. It takes time for transportation, but it's important to have clear, long-term plans. The second major project for us in Vestfold and for Telemark has been the railway – first with appropriations in 2009 to build double tracks partially downwards, and then finally with the 2013 decision on external intercity, among others. to Skien. It's a national project of real format, because it's a project that's going to put the whole Eastern region in a better communication situation than it's been in the past. That is precisely why I was so incredibly disappointed when this national transport plan came – also through individual projects, but above all that the great idea of a good collective network far away from Oslo was not to be completed. That the government chooses to put it away, I thought almost was not true. In fact, we're going to fight for a lot of individual projects, but we're actually going to have to do some national construction. Continuing intercity will be such a national construction. That's why it's almost so I don't believe it when I see that proposal no. 5 from the minority in the setting only has support from the Center Party, SV and the Workers Party. I hope it will be a majority in Stortinget that will continue the great idea of having a real collective offer all the way to Skien, Lillehammer and Halden. If not, there is a new opportunity for the harvest. I'm afraid that the great idea of the red-greens from 2013 about intercity all the way out, requires a government shift to the harvest to be realized.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3178	In my first post, I talked a little bit about how the right-wing government, the Right-dominant government, has put its mark on the lack of environmental considerations in the NTP. Now I'm going to say a little bit about how, with their ideology, they have put their mark on the reforms in the transport sector. A great deal has happened both in the rail sector, in the road sector and in the taxi industry. The right-wing government has been active everywhere, and it's set its tracks. Everyone understands what I'm thinking when we're talking about this famous tube. To take the railway reform first: a lot has happened, and what has happened is something that worries the whole opposition, really. Liability has been hacked into many sectors, which then have to buy and sell services to each other – all these state agencies. That's to make it more economic, it's said; we save money on it. Is that right? It's New Public Management, as I've said sometimes here from the pulpit. I wonder if it does? Is there so much 'new' anymore? I think this is an old thought. Among other things, many larger companies go back on the ideas that were in a couple of decades ago. I doubt the economic benefits of it. I've done that many times, including in dialogue with the Council of State. Truths are being served I don't think keep the goal. Yes, this reform has cost a billion, but they make 11 billion. Let's go. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's Those numbers I would like to think that objective scientists had prepared some minced meat. I don't trust it. They compare apples and pears. It is now that if companies that want to enter the market contribute an expected passenger growth that is large enough, it is clear that this pays off. Then you compare one to previous support for Vy, i.e. to NSB. It's got to get out of here. As you call in the woods, you get answers – so I doubt that very much. The second is the tragic fact that the word ‘employees’ or ‘employees’ is never mentioned by this right-wing government. That consideration is, like, gone. It's just that if you apply for that word in the documents, it's gone. So it's the road sector. The worst thing about the road sector is that responsibility is also divided there, so that it's taboo of brain capacity, we can say. The professionals are divided into so many environments – both the State Road Administration, New Roads and the consultants. All of this competes for brain power, and then the environment is decimated enormously.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3194	I take areas that I did not have time to mention in my main post. Our coast is a very important form of transport for people and goods. Yes, we are totally dependent on a good infrastructure also at sea. Moreover, value creation and growth associated with this mode of transport are not becoming less important in the future. We are therefore facilitating significant investments and maintenance in proposed NTPs, with maritime measures worth 12 billion. kr, with restoration of entrances and markings and with equipment acquisitions, such as navigation devices, maritime safety services and digital services in the order of nearly 18 billion. kr during the 12 year period. This contributes to a competitive, efficient and safe mode of transport, but not least to an environmentally friendly mode of transport. All 90 pst. of the goods we export measured in tonnes are carried out at sea. It is also stated that goods on the road are increasingly going across the sea and the track. Coastal action will benefit maritime transport and, in particular, the fishing industry along the whole coast, especially in North Norway. Since this is one of my last posts from this pulpit, I have to comment on the bet in my own part of the country. I am pleased that this NTP also contributes with many major efforts in Agder. After a long time as the neglected part of the country, the NTPs have adopted in 2017 and now this year have taken advantage of this part of the country with a continuous expansion of the road infrastructure – from Kristiansand to Oslo and westwards from Kristiansand to Stavanger. In addition, the extension of Rv is completed. 9 up the whole of Setesdal and Gartnerleukka in Kristiansand, helping to solve major traffic challenges in the Great Christian sand. In this way, the South is linked to the regions of residence and work, both east and west. The border line is described as a great opportunity ahead, which I fully support. However, with the major challenges facing rail on the east side, it has not been possible to give a clear signal to start this development in this plan. This does not mean that the project has been scrapped, but in order to have the effect of such a large effort it must be linked to the pace of the rest of the railway development in Westfold and Telemark. There is no doubt that the Genist estimate has a high potential for connecting new housing and labour markets in an environmentally friendly and time-saving way, but things have to happen in the right order. We can be proud of the fact that billions of people are once again inundating in the country. Developments have provided a whole new opportunity for South Africa to become a viable and attractive region. There's no doubt about it. I'm proud to have been part of a majority on the Stortinget that over two periods have got this done.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3215	To the range of home greetings: I'm also there, except that I'm so lucky that the Progress Party is alone in a project that's very important. So the others who are going to greet home have to think of something else. Or they can choose to point their noses. In proposal No 358 it says: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to the development of the E6 Oslo East in the first six-year period and to starting work on the State plan for the project.’ Yes, now you have all the options. On the E6 Oslo east, 75 000 cars pass every day. Is there anywhere else in Norway that can say that they don't get a project where there are 75 000 cars passing every day? Nope. Today, early on, engaged adults and children stood outside the Storting and asked politicians to prioritize the construction of the Manglerud Tunnel. The Mangle Tunnel will reduce noise and emissions, remove the queues and improve the quality of life of thousands of people. The Mangle Tunnel will also contribute to faster transport of goods, both into Oslo and through Oslo. Today they stood up early, party by party, and competed over who was most likely to build the Mangleut Tunnel. Left's appellant, Ola Elvestuen, claimed to have fought for the tunnel for 22 years, but that something had always gotten in the way – yes, for example. willingness to vote for the project. The Christian People's Party's appeal was also for the Manglerud tunnel, just not now – and actually not earlier either. The right was also for, but the appellant Heidi Nordby Lunde thought it was impossible to support the project because it would undermine local democracy. That's how you get tears in the eyes of such touching commitment to local democracy. But the government is ready, continued Nordby Lunde, there were open doors. Well, then you can vote in favour of the motion for a resolution, No. 371, which requires local or municipal access. The Labour Party's appellant, City Council representative Halse, was for the project in the 2019 election campaign, but unfortunately could not vote for it because his party would start from another end, as he said. The Labour Party will have an overall urban plan and first find a solution for the whole city. Selverlärt representative of the Groruddalen, Jan Bøhler, was absent. Bøhler, who still highlights that he is fighting for the Groruddalen, did not want to tell them that his party is against the most important transportation projects in the Groruddalen in the next ten years. He also did not have the opportunity to remind them that he represented a party that was opposed to alleged centralization and would move thousands of jobs out of Oslo. It is clear that Bøhler's commitment to the Groruddalen is, in effect, an commitment to his own candidacy to the Storting to the harvest. The seasense outside the Storting today was an embarrassing affair. It was a demonstration in double communication and an invitation to increased political contempt. After all that negative is said, I want everyone a really good summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3237	I have been at Stortinget for a few years, and I have been involved in handling all the transport plans. I remember February 15, 2002. Then Sverre Myrli said that now it's going well towards the end of the debate, but that's what speakers have said before me for two hours, so we're getting closer. Then I think we were done between three and a half hours at night – so that's a good thing today. I want to highlight some projects, and of course I have to start with the famous horse trade in 1992 between Kjell Opseth and SV about the Ringeriksbanen. There was a speaker before me here, Dag Terje Andersen, who talked about major projects that had not been realized. That horse trade made us a new desert hike for the Ringeriks course. Now we're in the vicinity of getting started. I managed the work myself, as a state politician, with the district plan for the Ringeriksbanen. It was submitted in 1994. So I've worked a long time for this project, but the first thought was sown in 1858. Then it was the first time the Ringeriksbanen was up for debate. It was then put away. It was also presented in 1885 – and rejected. But now it's a broad majority, and it's a broad majority that supports New Veier taking over the development of new E16 from Hole to Hønefoss and the expansion of the Ringeriksbanen. And I expect that the next time we discuss the NTP and the Ringerix Railway, the expansion is well under way, which will mean enormous amounts to Ringerike, Hallingdal, Voss and Bergen and the rest of the country. If we take the promise that K5 is going to be west of the watershed, this is going to be very good. In a country where many transport routes go north-south, as a Busherud representative, I feel a special responsibility for the East-West connections, and there is a great deal of positive about E134. Now, finally, a new parcel comes from Dagslett to what leads to Linnes, which now goes on to the E18 with a double Oslofjord tunnel, and it ends at the traffic junction past Lahell in Lier. A broad majority also points to the division of functions between rvs. 7 and Rv. 52, where commercial traffic crosses Hemsedal and passenger traffic across Hardangervidda. This is where environmental tunnels need to be further worked. Rv. 7 through Hallingdal is heavily busy, and it is very positive that the municipalities of Hallingdal, on the initiative of Hallingdal Right, have said yes to partial user funding, so that one gets started a proper upgrading of the road from Ørgenvika to Gol. That's what's needed. Then, of course, I am very pleased that we got Holmenbrua in the Drammen to be fully financed, so that one does not have a bomb on one of the four bridges in the Drammen. It would be stupid, and therefore the state takes responsibility for building a road to the port of Drammen. It'll be an important project. When we took over the government offices, we spent 600 billion. kr in NTP. Now I'm going to spend $12 billion. It's a double, and we're proud of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3254	It is good first to be able to praise the parliamentary leader in the Right for good words about the Ringeriksbanen and the Bergensbanen. He'll heal some of us. It's also us when it's related to rv. 7 and Rv. 52, and these are important things. It's probably some of us who think one should have started. There is no doubt that the Ringerix Railway and the K5 will actually make the railway a real alternative to aeroplanes. It should also bring with it. I would like to make a little comment to the representative Hemdal from the Progress Party, who was very busy that they were for the Vågsbotn–Klauvaneset: It may not be so impressive that one is for it when one has chosen to deposit everything, and when it looks like one in all states is for what is inside. But the Central Party has actually managed to prioritise that area, even within reasonable frameworks. I want to say a little bit about the railway reform. A lot of attention is focused on its decision to get the railway going. What she's done so far is more than 20 different companies and etatars, and she's costing 1 billion. kr. The National Audit Office has evaluated it and has not been able to see that it has given the railway more money or better regularity. The railway reform would provide billions of revenue and more cooks and less waste, but there is still no measured effect. We are pleased that the Minister for Transport, after the Evening Post wrote about this on 2 June, clearly stated that the reform should be evaluated. We look forward to that evaluation, so that a real basis can be given to say if it is so effective to do so. There's a lot of discussion about New Roads and the State Roads Agency when it comes to development. What I'm a little concerned about is the way we do it now, is that a company gets so much power. Many municipalities have given feedback that it is as far as they dare to impose requirements on soil protection and others in the course of development. We have to be careful not to become the soil protection that becomes the big loser in the future. I also think we should be much more prepared to build big enough. One may not need a four-field road at all locations 110 km/h. What we need is a safe appearance, a clear indication of how long a user is running the road, that one is safe for race, and that one knows that one is coming. If we're going to be able to fulfill all our desires in the future, we're totally dependent on getting a little bit more content.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3267	I register representatives from the right-hand side today who have a very high level of vibrancy when it comes to the promotion. Well, for my county, More and Romesdal, there's been little reason to rejoice these eight years. As Sunnmørsposten wrote in the fall: the road plans of the right part have played down. The status for eight years of claimed record road construction bets may, for the county, end up in two crab fields. It is with respect to report not all the worlds to write home. More and Romesdal is a particularly demanding state when it comes to communication and infrastructure. It's bad for a bus, a track and a broadband. Fjords and mountains make the county a transportable Swiss cheese, and we have many district roads with traces in maintenance and need for racial protection. In order to improve the daily lives of ordinary workers, families, commuters and businesses, we need to upgrade the road network in the districts. The working party suggests several means to the county councils for an increased bet on the county roads. We're betting on racial protection in the districts, and I'm glad that our proposal for a national racial protection plan is about to get multiples. The coast has these eight years been systematically down-prioritized by the bulk of the population. The decision to move the fishing ports to the county councils without proper funding is a clear example of this disclaimer. We therefore propose a pot to bet on fishing ports. The working party has fought hard for a halving of the ferry prices, and we're recording that several other parties are coming after it. For More and Romsdal's part, which is ferries with large F, this is quite central. It is unacceptable that ferry prices should prevent establishment, recruitment and construction. For one who's been dependent on a ferry all his life, it's very happy to see that an increasingly large part of the National Assembly is behind the coast and fjords here. Finally, a few words about these big national road projects that are going to bind us together. More and Romsdal have not been in favour of us here in recent years, and we have important fjord crossing projects and export routes both in the North-Møre, in the valley of Rome and on the Sunnmøre which must be given priority. I'd like to make a special move on rv. 15 on the Stryne Mountain. This road is of crucial importance for passenger transport and freight transport from Nordfjord and Sunnmøre to Austland and opposite road. I ran through the stryne mountain tunnels last night, glad I didn't get a bus or a trailer. There is no doubt that today's tunnels are out of order and dangerous. There's a hurry to rust up the rv. 15th The project must be further planned and started in the first scheduled period, with completion in the second scheduled period, as proposed by the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3282	Today, only the Progress Party wants to step up the transport campaign in Norway. Unfortunately, neither the Labour Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party nor the Center Party want the same thing. They say they're in favour, but yet only the Progress Party has 400 billion. kr extra in funding for the national transport plan. Putting the whole country into service is obviously just a slogan for the Center Party. The last thing that red-greens did in 2013 was to adopt a national transport plan of about a quarter. 500 B.C.E. kr. In my constituency, West Agder, they had only 25 km of new roads. And we know that the distance from Kristiansand to Stavanger is over 200 kilometers long. But it may not be so strange, because we have had a motorway plan for this country that has been in a drawer since the 1960s, until a shift in Norwegian transport policy came, and that was when the Progress Party came into government. Then we doubled the national transport plan to about 1000 billion. kr, we established the company Nye Veier AS and motorway projects were started at record speed. But now it's time for another lift. We added about 500 billion to the previous national transport plan. kr. Now we want to add 400 billion to this national transport plan. kr. The other parties say it's unrealistic. But at the same time, we have 11,000 billion. kr on book, jammed into unit trust and handled in London. When the Progress Party wants to use 3.6 pst. The Labour Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Centre say it is unrealistic. There is nothing unrealistic about giving proper funding to new roads, keeping pressure on the E39 from Kristiansand to Stavanger, racially securing the Haukom mountain in Sirdal with new tunnels, which the Progress Party will, or building a new road from E39 to Spangereid in the South. After all, it must be almost embarrassing for the representatives of the Right and Christian People's Party from Agder when they are going to vote against what they publicly say they are really in favour of. Parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party even says that locals have to pay for the road and refer to the Progress Party's road proposal as unrealistic; that they live in their own world. The government parties therefore believe that it is unrealistic for the state to reach 11 000 billion. NOK on the book pays for a road in the South that costs 500 million. kr. How, then, can it be thought realistic that little Agder County should pay the same amount? It's not on your fingertips. The Progress Party will build more road and infrastructure and believes that the State must take greater responsibility. We can afford that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3295	One might think that I could not use speaking time because most representatives from the Progress Party have been up here and described the Labour Party's policies and solutions, but the fact is that I should have had four-fold speaking time to clear up some of the misunderstandings that have been tried to create. But transport is important no matter where in the country you live. The wishes, needs and challenges vary. So it's no wonder that NTP engages, and there's a lot of input. After all, this is where we put all the leads for the next twelve years. The working party wants more for, among other things: racial protection, planning, highways, fishing ports and road safety. The Labour Party has ambitious plans for the districts, including for Finnmark. A number of road sections shall be raced and upgraded. After eight years of different right-wing governments, very little has been done to promote larger transport projects in Finnmark. It's just a dry job. The creativity shown in the debate and in proposals and text in the NTP over the last eight years should have been put into practice. The working party therefore wants to increase the funds for planning and launching important road projects. Finnland entrepreneurs must be given the opportunity to compete for jobs on equal terms. The working party wants to break up contracts, so that it is not just the biggest contractors who can compete for the contracts. We must combat social dumping. We will bet on a serious working life and bet on Norwegian companies, with Norwegian pay and working conditions. The Labour Party supports molo in Vardø, we support the fishing port in Kjøllefjord, we support measures in Gamvik and Komagvær. The working party has set aside $1.8 billion. kr for the development of fishing ports. The government transferred responsibility for the fishing ports to the county councils without accompanying economic instruments. It is not a good treatment of our fishing industry, of our fisheries-dependent communities and of those who are engaged in aquaculture. The working party wants an NTP that allows the districts to take advantage of their natural advantages while developing and strengthening local communities and local businesses and ensuring housing and housing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3312	The reason why people can live in the whole country is that they have a job to go to and an opportunity to get there. I am proud of the effort that has been made to build infrastructure and to strengthen road and track after the government change in 2013. Cooperation between the current government parties and the Progress Party has resulted in a doubling of the transport budget and new innovative solutions to speed up and extend the budgets. It's impressive, and it helps to build the country together in an efficient and good way. The big cities have their own challenges, but there's no doubt that even District Norway needs good, safe roads. It's important for both people and business. We remember roads with more holes and gravel than asphalt, low road standards and low speed limits. Now we've seen road construction at a pace that lacks parallel. It's noticed when 2020 is history, and we can see that 800 kilometers of road is opened under this government. It's marked from north to south. E6 between Narvik and Alta, which was opened in 2018, cut the travel distance by 40 km. It gave way more wide and safer, and it's good district policy. In my part of the country, South Africa, we see the results of the road operations every day. Soon the E39 from Kristiansand to Lvgal is ready, and when we finish the road to Stavanger, it opens up a completely new housing and labour market. On Friday the new Varoddbrua will open, and soon the Gartnerleukka work will start. I can promise you that our part of the country will be marked by the movement effort. Transport policy is among the most powerful means of creating growth and development across the country. That's why the new plan is 18 billion. kr to bet on the county roads of the NTP also groundbreaking. We're reducing the aftermath on the county roads. I am pleased that the Committee in its position points to the need for a new road linking GE Healthcare in Lindesnes and surrounding areas to the new E39, and that our comments state that the route could be relevant to the new grant scheme for county roads. I would also like to stress that the Sørlanden have clear expectations that the government will follow up the call from the Workers' Party, the Right, the Center Party, the Socialist Left and the Left to find solutions for a new route to the Arendal port of Eydehavn and to the new battery factory and the timber industry that is under construction there.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3325	In the case of roads, there are the county roads, the municipal roads and some of the highways, which even lack yellow stripe, we have to bet on. It's more important than the big performance projects that the government and the Progress Party push here, where the dream is also to run at 120 km/h. That's not what business in my county needs, at least. They need county roads that they can drive on, which are affordable all year round, and that can withstand the cars. The cars have to get to the railway. If there is something missing in this country, there is a national plan for goods on the road. Everyone has talked about it for as long as I've been at Stortinget, but it goes that way the chicken kicks. It's getting smaller and smaller. In my county there is a track that is excellent for carrying large quantities of goods from North Norway along the whole Swedish border and out to Sweden over Kongsvinger. I'm talking about the Røros and the Solørbahn. It should have had power many years ago. It should be put on. It also has a lower mountain crossing than you have on the Dovrebahn, and the Dovrebahn needs more space, because there are more people there, and there is potential to expand more passenger traffic. SV has suggested now because I don't know which time we have to put in place such a plan for goods on the track, and that we have to get power on the Røros and Solørbahnen, so that we can drive the same trains from north to south, over Kongswinger and out of the country. Then we also need some terminals. We need Freight Package Inland, we need a timber terminal on Kongsvinger, and we need a terminal on Sørli. There are large quantities, and a lot of these are also timber transport. Trailer traffic on these routes is raging on the roads. It's pretty scary to drive there. I must admit that I am not running rv. 3 longer, sail if it's improved. I drive a lot up the Østerdalen, but then I drive Rendalen. Why do I do that? Yes, because trailer traffic on RV. 3 is so big that it simply feels risky to drive there. There is, therefore, a parallel route which, with modernisation in practice, could provide this country with a double track between the Middle Norway and the Central East. Then you can have one road in the Gudbrand valley and the other road in the Østerdalen. I assume that the Labour Party and the Central Party are voting in favour of this proposal today, because they have promised it locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3336	The centre party is concerned that people should be able to live, work and live a good life throughout Norway. If we're going to be able to do that, we have to have good and well-functioning roads. We must have a well-functioning train service for both passenger and freight services, and we must also have a strong coastal effort on both port and fairway measures. In some important areas, the national transport plan being dealt with today is not good enough at all. One of the main challenges facing us is to facilitate the re-establishment and strengthening of the mainland Norway industry to deal with a trade deficit that has been record high in recent years, and to do something about industrial investment that has been too low over time, and among other things. facilitate more investment in the Norwegian woodworking industry. What was the wood industry's comment when the national transport plan had arrived? Indeed, the Managing Director of the Treindustrie, Heidi Finstad, said in an article that NTP undermines green industrial plans and climate targets, and indicated that concrete plans that were within existing NTP, linked to both Brandval, freight terminal there, and Hauerseter, were not contained in the new national transport plan. It is very important in such areas that we make sure that we have progress, provide predictability and provide framework conditions for making investments that can facilitate the use of the rich natural resources we have in Norway to build jobs, create industry – value creation – instead of sending them out of the country as a commodity. I have registered that several speakers, including by the Progress Party, has become high and dark in the course of the debate today linked to Rv. 4th@item: inlistbox Well, that's one of the most important measures on RV. 4, a new one ran in the Hagan tunnel, so it was the Progress Party, when they put in government with both the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Finance, who made sure to withdraw from the National Transport Plan. It was prioritised by the red-green parties when they were in government. It was withdrawn from the national transport plan by the Progress Party, and the Progress Party has not contributed to its re-entry by a majority. That is very disappointing. It is one of the important measures one could have taken to ensure road safety for people living in the municipality of Nitdal, and all those who use the road to daily.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3352	Almost 6.5 hours into the debate, I am pleased to note that there is broad agreement on the projects that the government has put into the national transport plan. And even more joyous is the underlying idea, with a portfolio management – that we should get the most back for the funds, there is also a broad consensus about. What got the blood to shower at my house was when I heard the representative Bears Moxnes – right enough to 20 in the style of performance, but the content! He mentioned the project Hordfast, Rogfast and Møreaksen, and then he said there was no local anchoring. I stopped the Rogfast project for a year. I almost had a bodyguard if I met a giant representative from Rogaland in that period. We know how well these projects are anchored, what they mean, that business points to them as one of the most important things, and then the representative shows Moxnes that the Mangleud project should have us. Yeah, that's what the Oslo project told us not to join the NTP. We have received a clear message from Oslo about this. And this kind of project is a toll project. If you want the Missing Project and you don't want to get tolls, then you have to say that this project doesn't want one. If there's realism in that project, one has to have tolls to get it done. I also noticed the representative Sylvi Listhaug, who said that with this NTP, I am skinning the car list. I want to remember what we've done with this NTP up against the previous one. We've increased the state share, and we've brought down the toll percentage. So if Sylvi Listhaug came up with the characterization of this NTP, which I've presented, I wonder what she says to her nest leader, Ketil Solvik-Olsen, who put out the previous one. We're going to have a realistic and ambitious NTP, and I understand the criticism Dag Terje Andersen is coming with a link to intercity. Because we have to be honest about what we're saying right now, that's not the same thing as we said before. But what's realistic when we've seen the increase in rail costs is an optimised intercity between 2021 and 2033. – Then I’m glad that we can be some people that we should have the vision of double tracks, but within this NTP we have to be some about what’s realistic.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3363	The point of transport investment is to give people greater freedom of choice for work and residence and to strengthen their business life, i.e. to reduce distance costs. The most important thing is to get fiber to all households. Then we have to move from demand-driven expansion to supply-driven expansion. That's what's called digital universal rights. It is a system change that is necessary. The county roads are the second main priority — with fixed deck, 10 tonnes axle load and no telecommunications restrictions. We have to get a plan for upgrading. Deep stabilisation is a word that Storting should notice. It's an amazing method, to refresh the road body and put it back on. Cost: Estimated NOK 2000 per metre. So one gets a mile for 20 million. kr – there will be a new road that is built in a completely different way from that of asphalting old, rot-fired track body. We have to give priority to the county roads in front of new four-field roads in Buskerud, and that brings me to the railway. The Dramens Valley must not be given four-field roads that destroy cultural landscapes, food and other natural values. We must therefore upgrade Gulskogen station, we must get two trains an hour to Kongsberg, and we must not least upgrade the stations at Randsfjordbanen – Skotselv, Åmot, Geithus and Vikersund. We have to come up with planning means so that we can realize the railway operation, so we can avoid four-field roads through the beautiful Eikerbygda. As for Bergensbanen's abbreviation, there's one thing I have especially on my heart, and it's Hole Municipality. It's no coincidence that they have four crowns in their municipal weapons. It is because it is an incredibly fertile municipality, and the passage through through through Hole and Ringerijk must be done by taking special environmental considerations, environmental tunnels, or otherwise the resistance to that project will be strong. The centre party shall be at the forefront in order to safeguard the environmental interests in that matter. In the case of national roads, the exit to Sigdal from rv. 350 is really a rare overripe case with which something has to be done. To complete the E16 around the Chicken Fox, and the new Holmen Bridge, without tolls is essential. E134, the Viking alternative through Lier, is absolutely necessary, the Svelvik road in the Drammen, which connects Svelvik and Drammen, and finally the Road Package Hallingdal. Hallingdal's road package has funds inside. The centre party will really be on guard for the Road Package Hallingdal and continue it, so that we can get a modern communication through Hallingdal and on to the West.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3376	In the debate here today, I have heard many accusations against the Progress Party that it is an almost irresponsible, indeed almost unaccountable, NTP Progress Party. Yes, if it is irresponsible or irresponsible to give priority to transportation, because politics is about prioritizing. Only in the first quarter of this year was it 382 billion. kr extra in the oil fund, or the State pension fund abroad, as it is also called. I have a great sense of and know many from the Center Party who are farmers and farmers in my home municipality. They always say, "We're going to deliver the farm in a slightly better condition than when we got it." That means accountability. It's to facilitate the next generation. It's about road safety. SV says that we cannot drive and asphalt over arable land. No, we're going to try to avoid that. You say it's so bad. Is there anyone who's asked, "What does a traffic victim mean?" Talk to them. This is what the Progress Party is engaged in – building safe, secure traffic trails to carry people, goods and goods. In the case of Vestfold – I would like to talk a little bit about this – and the railway, the Vestfold railway, I am a little disappointed when the government parties do not focus more on freight terminal. It's been talking about for years. I would like to thank the Workers' Party and the SV, who are at least involved in making a majority comment that says something important, that when you first built a track, it would be possible to get a separation to that freight terminal wise. But when it comes to going down the Vestfold track, I'm a little disappointed. Thanks to the Progress Party, which received planning materials for Stokke-Torp-Sandefjord, it is possible, as the government itself writes in its document, to take two trains an hour from the Ski outside of rush time. This means that you have downgraded – not just an effect package. So it's very uncertain, and you put it on hold. I wish that there could be a majority who could speed up that process – not just have a start-up grant in the first period and push everything out for an uncertain period – and put in $8.5 billion. DKr of the dried 10 billion. kr. That would mean something. We can't expect too much for the autumn either. The chairman of the Central Party in Westfold and Telemark, Terje Riis-Johansen, has said that they should speed up intercity, that is the most important thing for the county, and the first candidate from the Central Party, Kathrine Kleveland, said that we must relieve the government so that we can speed up intercity. Obviously, they don't have hearing. It's possible Siv Mossleth can answer that more. At least they don't give priority to that. The Progress Party shall give priority to combined mobility. It's not about using coercion, but freedom of choice in everyday life, what works best for the individual. That means that we are also betting on the railways in the area of the East. The car is important because it provides a combined mobility. Not everyone lives where the train goes. Train is good, but it takes you from a place you're not, to a place you're not going to. Then you also have to make provision for a car.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3389	Hordfast, as part of a ferry-free connection along our coast, has two purposes: to strengthen business and secure jobs and to get people and stay safe. This is a project for which the industry along the coast has been working for 30 years, followed by a natural extension of Rogfast, which is now under way, and Svegatjørn–Rådal, which is soon completed. The project has followed all democratic processes and socio-economic analyses, and the middle trasé has been pointed out as the best. As soon as the committee was set up, there was a strange press release from the Center Party. They will build the one bridge to Hordfast, then they will evaluate and reconsider the trasé. This is a suggestion that actually sends the project directly to the desktop drawer, and that appears to be of little thought. I refuse to believe that the committee members have looked into the geography and the issues they will address. In addition, the Center Party has withdrawn 7 billion. kr from the project, a grep that prevents the project from being started. We have recorded that the whole road has our drag fights in the Center Party around Hordfast. A lot of this debate has been linked to E16 and fears that Hordfast would push a safer road to Voss. National transport plan, submitted by the government, clears this insecurity from the road – both projects have been included in the plan. And with this in place, there should be time for the Center Party to "belt" – but no. This testifies to the lack of understanding of the needs of the districts as they sit at the Central Party. If one thing business has been clear in the last few years, it's just Hordfast and fast and safe along our coast. One might wonder if there is a replay on the forthcoming negotiations with SV, or if it is simply a desire to use the money elsewhere in the country behind it. I fear both, because this is certain: A rematch about Hordfast now, with the assessment of new trasés and strong underfinancing, as one here puts up, is to shoot a white stick after a project that has been at the top of the business list for decades – and the best way to ensure that the West has to put the last line in the queue for fast and safe roads for the inhabitants along the west coast. This cannot be seen as anything other than the failure of the Centre Party in the West, and with this they set the basis for jobs and construction along the West Coast in play. It doesn't help with nice party speeches when a tear the carpet away from the foundation for it to bu people throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3404	First of all, I would like to say that I understand the reaction of the Council of State to Moxnes’ statement about the fjord crossings in the West. The trade and business movement has been indebted to debt in the priority of these fjord crossings. What I was going to say about was aviation. Aviation is ahead of exciting times. Low and zero emission aeroplanes are closer to realization than ever. Large aeroplanes will soon receive biofuels on relatively short distances and interfere with the same on long routes. On the short-haul network and on very short flights in Norway, electric aircraft will take over in a little bit of visibility. This will provide great opportunities both for passengers and for innovation and testing. There are several exciting projects in the take-off pit, and SV and the Centre have in a loose proposal, No. 314, proposed a long-term project in climate-neutral aviation. Unfortunately, this proposal also contains the location of a test centre in North Norway. Unfortunately, the working party is not ready to decide that such a test centre should be located in North Norway. This may be the right place, but it would be unthinkable to adopt such a location on the kick, at a 24-hour notice. There are also other places working on such plans. The Labour Party agrees with the intentions, but will therefore vote against the proposal, which was promoted today early. I also show that we elaborate in a comment in the setting. So to the representative Sundbø Abrahamsen, who claims that the representative Myrli answered the question of New Vee's future in the exchange of lines earlier today. What the Labour Party believes about this is that we have two proposals in the vote. They contain an independent review and an evaluation of the way we build roads in this country. Now we have the State Road Service, we have New Roads, we have eleven county municipalities and at least three OPS projects. We propose that an investigation be carried out to check whether this is effective and appropriate. As far as Hove-Ålgård is concerned, it was claimed that we from the Rogaland bench had no impact on our people in the parties. What I can say about it is that we ask the government to find solutions on that route, along with local authorities. What that means, I dare not express myself now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3415	Of a total cost framework of 1205 billion. Finnmark in the government's proposal for the NTP is equivalent to 2.97 billion. kr, barely 0,25 pst. of the total NTP framework over the next 12 years. Of these, Skarvbergtunnelen, Gamvik and Kamøyvær fishing port and Inseiling Leirpollen are projects that the Progress Party started when we were in government. There are projects in progress that will end during the current year or next year. In reality, the projects planned in Finnmark for the next 12 years are just under 2.5 billion. kr. My ambition and the ambition of the Advancement Party has been that Finnmark's share of just under 3 billion. kr was to be increased by several projects, so that the total was at 6 billion. kr. Unfortunately, the red-greens were not on it, and produced me as a populist – although I believe I am a realist with clear ambitions on behalf of my homeland, Finnmark. With the Advance Party in government, the budget for transport was nearly twice as large as with the red-greens in the government, and we managed for the first time in many decades to reduce the maintenance of the national road network. Now the government has reduced the level of ambition, and it is fully supported by the Workers' Party and the Center's Party. I am very disappointed that the Workers' Party and the Centre almost failed to add anything extra to the treatment of the NTP, but rather chooses to agree with the government's proposal. Now, the Workers' Party and the Centre have good opportunities for a common journey lift for Finnmark, but they prefer to vote down important projects. It may seem as if the Center Party is trying to correct that impression with its proposals in the hall, and then creativity becomes great. I would like to know more about what the Senterpartiet has to say in proposal No. 372, which was delivered by Siv Mossleth: ‘The government asks the government to keep Alta airport open and functional.’ It’s probably strictly Avinor’s task, not government, and I know it’s the airport – which I use twice a week – both open and very functional, so we don’t see any purpose in voting for it. Now it's worth mentioning that the Center Party wants to increase the funding for county roads by 5 billion. kr, and the Workers' Party wants to increase by 2,4 billion. kr. What's the big deal? With 2.4 bn. kr over the 12-year NTP period, the share of Finnmark will be around 10 million. kr per year. It will hardly keep changing bulbs in the street lights along the county roads of Finnmark. It shows the low level of ambition of the Centre Party and the Workers' Party for the promotion of Finnish mark – and even lower if the ambition level of the Workers' Party and the Centre for the rest of the NTP is based on 0,25 pst. to Finnmark. Then it will only amount to approx. 500 000 kroner a year and will not keep to light bulb change once.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3428	I'm going to spend a little bit of time, just a little bit of time, on the other things we're dealing with here. The Progress Party has also made many proposals in this context, and there are five proposals I would like to talk about. In the context of Document 8:253 S for 2020-2021, the Progress Party proposes to facilitate the provision of information signs along the road. The majority of the Committee has agreed on the proposal to amend today’s plate legislation to make it easier for road network operators to inform road users about their activities and where they are located. In Document 8:247 S, the Progress Party proposes simpler and cheaper bike and walking routes. Here the majority of the Committee draws attention to the fact that this is a proposal which has been made in the past. However, two important clarifications have been made: firstly, road standards must be flexible, and secondly, it has been established that the road owner has the power to deviate from the normal requirements of his own road network. It is important that the Ministry informs the weigher of this flexibility and contributes to its use at all levels. Then there is Document 8:212 S: Here the Progress Party proposes to increase the upper speed limit to 120 km/h on the motorway by 1 July 2021. The majority of the Committee assumes that this must be a testing scheme for a route where this has already been provided for, so that it does not entail an increase in costs. In document 8:204 S, the proposers propose to facilitate the continued sale of petrol cars and diesel cars after 2025. For the right and the rest of the majority of the Committee, it is important that the objective of a zero-emission vehicle should be achieved through an active policy that makes it profitable to choose a zero-emission vehicle, not by prohibiting the sale of petrol cars and diesel vehicles. Finally, in this context: in Document 8:205 S, the Progress Party promotes the proposal to wind up the zero growth target. There is a broad majority in the Committee to stick to the objective. The big debate has so far followed well-known dividing lines, but I have to comment on two points. The Roman Railway is not mentioned in this NTP and the representative Sverre Myrli gave the answer. Fornebubanen, the Major Room Station and the T-Bahn tunnel go ahead, but it's up to the local authorities to change this order. Then there has to be an initiative from there before it enters the NTP. After all, Oslopackak 3 controls that ballet. As regards New Roads, it has been pointed out that there are eleven new road projects within an annual grant of 5.8 billion. kr, excluding tolls. This has been implemented with the usual grant, because Nye Veier believes that they should be able to implement these 11 projects under that scheme. We have experience in the past that Nye Weier has actually had to ask for more projects because the results achieved in the past. They built cheaper and faster and needed to supplement the portfolio. Finally, the missing tunnel is requested. The progress party voted against the E18 West Corridor when it was dealt with in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3449	When the NTP process started, it was clearly said that the states should be heard when it came to what they wanted to prioritise. In Trøndelag they have said ‘railway first’, with clear targets of flights with district departures, the organisation of freight transport on the Dovrebanen and the Rørosbahn, with multiple departures, electrification and crossing tracks. They want E14 completed planned and ready for prioritisation development of the speedboat of the future; prioritisation of county roads; means of investigation, research and interaction to develop future freight solutions In the case of freight terminal in Trøndelag, it is quite incredible to listen to the representative Lønseth, who, after eight years of government power, says that it is the Workers' Party's fault if it does not become a freight terminal there. For eight years her government has pointed to Torgård for railway and Hurricane as the main port, towards better knowledge. Now that they've changed their mind and want a terminal at the Heggstadmoen – again without a complete investigation – that won't solve the challenges for Trondheim and Trundellag, a solution that the state and Trondheim at last say they don't want, the government doesn't listen to Trøndelag. Not one penny has been added to the development of infrastructure around Orkanger port – nor to the wish of Heggstadmoen. But it is therefore the fault of the Workers' Party – it is quite incredible to hear. Such an argument is not just a little constructive. It also damages Trøndelag, and it damages the reputation of our politicians. The representative, Bjørnstad, says that the Workers' Party has not prioritised the Velcro. Yes, we do. We have set aside planning funds and said that the environmental package is given responsibility, and that the state has to take the bill for the investigation for which the state is responsible. There are several people here who have been concerned about what the Workers' Party will do with New Roads. I would just like to refer to our first two proposals, which say that we want an independent review and evaluation of the various reforms and the impact of reorganisations on the professional environments in the road sector. But so, trolls want the development of the railway, and they want the Clutches established.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3477	I could like to get mixed up in the thunder debate, to say it like that, considering what we're giving, and what we're not capable of. The only comment is that the sums of money that the county wanted to raise were unrealistic compared to their value in value. But what I want to use my post here until now is a little bit about the railway reform and the opposition, the red-greens, resistance to and scepticism of it. We get a little bit of different signals. The Labour Party is against all the directors who have been employed in these state companies, SV is against the fact that responsibility has been hacked up, while the Centre Party is talking about the need to go through the railway sector with a view to getting more clear responsibilities. But I guess that's exactly what you've done. Norwegian trains, who buy and hire trains, Entur, who sell train tickets on all sections of the train, Path NOR, have been given a complete traffic system at the disposal of the train companies, Track operation, which is to operate and maintain the country's railway system, and Mantena, which maintains the train sets. It's a clear responsibility. The companies know exactly what their territory is. Yes, it's become a lot of companies, but everyone's state, it's state ownership, and I've seen it so most people think it's very interesting to work in these companies. As far as operations are concerned, it was put off by competition, and it is perhaps in the debate that the red-greens are most annoyed that there are competitive train sections. But the employees received a business transfer. I was on the first trip with Go-Ahead, and they were at least in the fire and flame over how they had been received in the company, and what kind of employer policy they had. So I think you're exaggerating a little bit of the negativity around this. I think you get a lot for this money that's invested in the railway sector. And remember, we've tripled the investment in the railway sector in the last ten years. It's amazing. We've got a lot left, and not least, the number of passengers is increasing all the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3486	Of course, I could use my entire contribution now to criticise the government's transport policy, whether it is fragmentation of the railways, too low ambitions for racial protection or too poor efforts against social dumping in the transport sector. But I won't. First, I'm going to enjoy important projects in Hordaland that are moving towards realization. Vågsbotn – Klauvaneset north of Bergen was not part of the government’s proposal for NTP, but through the landfilling, there is a cross-political, clear signal to keep the pressure on the project. For one who grew up on the Haugaland, but lives in Bergen, it is also a pleasure that one now goes on with the ferry-free E39 Hordfast – not for me to spend shorter time home to mother and father, but for the holiday-free road between Stavanger and Bergen to strengthen and connect a region with an export-oriented business with enough people and jobs to be a real counterweight to the centralization we see today. Not least, K5 Bergen–Voss is inside with start-up in the first period of NTP, right with different start-up for road and track and with no planning at all, but we are now approaching start-up for the K5 project, which many of us have been working on for more than a decade. So I have to mention, as in the line change, that the Center Party wants to reduce the national road allocations in the Hordaland constituency during the NTP period. I don't think there are a lot of hordes of people who think that there's too much investment in our constituency, so the treatment of NTP in the Grand Duchy clearly shows that if you want a government shift, like half of them do, but don't want to cut the national road investments in Hordaland, you have to vote for the Workers' Party. Finally, a heart attack: I'm not in the Transport Committee, but I think it's a very bad thing that the opposition parties minus the Workers' Party are about to turn the treatment of an important big message into a political theater with the Progress Party at the head. Thus, one promotes hundreds of requests in a non-assigned big message, but on issues to be dealt with two or three more times by the Storing in propositions and budgets before they are realised. This is an effective way of undermining the entire planning tool of the national transport plan. It's also dishonest. The representatives give the impression that only today's request is supported, or tomorrow's, the project is in a box. They know it's wrong, lie, but the political theater is more important than a credible long-term infrastructure planning. It is approaching elections, but the voters deserve better than the proposal circle of individual parties, with the Progress Party at the head, being present in the Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3510	The representative Bengt Fasterale has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3515	I just want briefly to say a little bit about what the Central Party will bet on in terms of rail in the Inland. The centre party will prioritize double tracks up to Hamar and a necessary upgrade of the Hamar station in order to ensure good enough frequency and capacity for freight and passenger traffic throughout the Oslo-Trondheim route, as well as to facilitate two trains per hour to Lillehammer and two trains every other hour between Oslo and Trondheim. An optimised extension with pass-by tracks and double-track sections Brumunddal-Moelv and Moelv-Lillehammer, as well as double-track up to and including Hamar station, including an upgrade of the track area, must start in the first period of NTP. The center part will add 1.5 billion. kr in the first period and SEK 9,5 billion. kr in the second period to finance these projects. In addition, continued investment in the Raumaban for tourism is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3526	We've almost passed seven hours, so maybe it's getting closer to the end -- but maybe I should never have said that, because then, according to previous speakers, there's two hours left here. Just like that, I think what I started with today is still standing. We have a fairly broad support for the overall framework of the national transport plan. At least it seems that the bulk of the population – then with the exception of the Advance Party – thinks about 1,200 billion. kr is a reasonable level to invest for the next twelve-year period. I also feel that there is a broad connection to the project portfolio and the main lines of the national transport plan. I have only recorded that SV will re-prioritize massively from road to track. This will partly be done by the Greens and Reds, as far as the Greens and Reds are concerned. At the same time, there is very little disagreement about an individual project, except for the Advance Party, which will clearly scrape the Moorax, and the Center Party, which will cut down on Hordfast. In addition, it appears to be relatively broad consensus related to the project portfolio located in the NTP. What follows the more traditional lines is the disagreement we have about reforms. I see that the railway reform is a rather united agreement, I had almost said, between the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV, that they want to reverse. I think that's a bad idea. I see that the Workers' Party is also spending money on saving little money to reverse the rail reform. That's what I think is relatively creative bookkeeping. In the case of New Roads, I am a little bit more surprised at some of the signals that have come. SV is clearly liberating in the sense that they will wind up the company. Not that I agree with them, but at least it's a clear signal. The central party must have greater political governance, what it must now involve in practice, while the Labour Party and the other two parties want to explore the future of the company more closely. At least it creates some uncertainty, as I see it, as to how these ambitions are. I also record that the intercity ambition has to be established. That's what the Workers' Party, the Center Party and SV say. If we look at NTP and what's being added, I'm going to register that the Workers' Party is adding 2 billion. kr. I challenged Sverre Myrli on that in the debate earlier today. It is not sufficient to make a specific increase in intercity in order to reach the level of ambition of the national transport plan for 2018-2029. What really lies in such a decision and such an ambition becomes very unclear as long as you don't fill up with money.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3541	First of all, thank the Minister for Transport for a solid, modern and predictable NTP. After the treatment in Stortinget, there have been some improvements, I'm going to get back to it. But the most important thing for me to say is that the Right will continue the great commitment to commerce and complete the important reform work we have started, which ensures that we get more traffic out of each crown. So we don't have allergies for new solutions, we see that they work. Transport investment is an important contribution to speeding up Norway, and it is important because of the path out of the pandemic, which will provide high activity in the transport sector and contribute to employment across the country. National transport plan is also good news for Buskerud. In NTP, the joint project Ringeriksbanen and E16 Högcastet-Hønefoss have been transferred from Bane NOR and the Statens vägvesen to Nye Vejer AS. This is a good and forward-looking solution. The Ringerix Railway is the largest railway project we have. When we came into government in 2013, this project had almost fallen asleep far inside a drawer for many, many years. Then the project speeded up. It will provide faster travel times and more frequent frequencies between Oslo and Bergen, strengthen the competitiveness of business between our two cities and not least strengthen the tourism industry in Hallingdal. I am also pleased that the initiative from Hallingdal Right on Road Package Hallingdal has received a positive comment, and not least that there must now also be a solution to Rv. 7 over the range. A good transport plan has improved in the treatment at Stortinget, for government parties have increased the frame by 5 billion. kr. In particular, measures to ensure freight transport and road safety have been given priority. I would like to mention Holmenbrua in the Drammen, former rv. 282, which is in a wretched condition, is mature for replacement and operates on dispensation. It is now fully financed by the state. It's going to be a safe and important bridge, as Drammen Hafen accepts almost 70 pst. of all cars entering the country. It's also electric cars – positive. Even in the 2020 crisis it was a major new car activity with a total of 89,882 unloaded cars. E134 Dagslett – Linnes finally got a solution. We also get a tunnel below Drøbak, which means we get a good path up to Kongsberg and further into Telemark. So thank you for a good plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3554	I have listened with interest to the whole debate today, and I must say that I am very surprised at all the proposals that are now being promoted. It is primarily the Progress Party, but that other opposition parties also throw themselves at that proposal bonus, I must say, am surprised. And from the pulpit it says that if you don't vote for that proposal from us, yes, one is against it and that project. I've heard the speakers of the Progress Party, it's amazing that it's possible to deliver such a message. So I would say, to my dear friends from different opposition parties: what if we get all the 372 proposals adopted – about the opposition is in line with each other's proposals? What kind of NTP did we get then? Had the matter been resolved then, because then we had only automatically realized all those proposals, all those projects? No, no, no. It's not an invasion! The progress party on one side, SV on the other – there is no common impact. And then one vote on each other's proposal. It's unprofessional. Then we will make the national transport plan an airlock that is impossible to realise, because there will be no commitments with the proposals that are being promoted now and that will be voted on tomorrow. We in the Workers' Party are too double tracks, both here and there, and we are in favour of electrification of the Røros Railway. We're for rv. 13 Week Mountain, rv. 15 The Stryn Mountain, rv. 4 Gjøvik–Oslo, E16 except the Payers – and I can continue. But that doesn't mean that we can vote for any proposal from all parties for that reason. I can't. Unfortunately, many in this Chamber are now involved in destroying the NTP as the good planning tool it may be, for it has been, once it has worked, an obligatory plan which has been a political responsibility to follow up financially in the annual budgets. It will not be if all possible proposals – 200, 300, 372 proposals – are adopted. Earlier today, someone said that there has been a party, that the debate could be compared to a party – yes, I do. The party lasts a long time, the atmosphere rises, everyone has ordered everything on the whole menu because one did not agree on what to order. Finally, the restaurant closes, and the bill is to be settled, but no one will pay. That is the reality if all possible proposals are adopted. The party of progress runs away from the bill when it comes, and then the others are left and have to argue and have completely different suggestions on how to cover the bill. It's regrettable, and it's unthinkable if NTP gets like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3565	The representative, Mr Olsen, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3570	It was the representatives Søttar and Strifeldt from the Progress Party that made me take the floor again. They claim that the Labour Party operates with broken electoral promises when we do not vote in favour of all the proposals of the Advance Party and that we are only involved in comments and beautiful words. We don't have 400 billion. kr to absolutely all the good measures we could imagine, and as anyone might wish. Nor does it have the Progress Party. We have to be honest – this is Monopoly money, it is the Advance Party that trickles people. Not one of the projects into which all of these extras have been added is being built. The working party has a realistic and comprehensive plan for the NTP that is feasible. When I hear what the Progress Party says, I think they've been in government for seven years, haven't they learned anything there? No, by the way, they were in prison, and there's no economic training.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3577	I began today, like the representative Tybring-Gjedde, to see a demonstration outside the size of students from the Høyenhall school for the Mangleud tunnel. As mentioned earlier, I did not suggest it, but I wrote the proposal on the Manglerud Tunnel as far back as the City Council in Oslo in 1999. I was not selected yet, but the proposal was promoted that time, and we have been working systematically for the Manglerud Tunnel through Oslopack 3 in the following years. The representative, Igstad, has also been involved. For me, it is incomprehensible that the Workers' Party, SV and the Environmental Party of the Greens in Oslo are moving against the Mangleud Tunnel now. Despite the fact that there is a zero growth target in Oslo and the other big cities that we reach, Manglerud is the place in the city where we have planned for decades to increase traffic. It is planned to increase traffic by downgrading E18 and building up and channelling traffic on E6. Right in this area, the road splits a local environment. You now have traffic of over 75 000 cars a day, it's approaching 100 000, and it's going to be more in the years to come. So we need the Mangleud tunnel. We need it not just to put transport underground, we need it also to get a collective hub on Bryn, to get better cycling solutions and to improve public transport in that road system itself. But tolls are required to build. That's not what the Progress Party says, that just voting for a loose proposal is all right. You have to have it as a toll project, simply because we're going to do so much more in Oslo. And we're doing so much more. The fornebuban is now finally on. We also need to look at the Oslopack 3 funds – where other measures can be taken, whether it is downgrading Trondheimswegen, trams to Tonsenhagen or a new station at Breivoll. It's a discussion, and it has to go with Oslo. So we need the broad majority. Luckily, we have that here. I'm glad the government is behind the Manglerud Tunnel, but we need that majority together in Oslo to implement the project in the years to come. We have to be able to do that. There is also a railway operation in this NTP built up over many years. We get better frequency in the Oslo region towards the mid-2020s. In the end, I'm very happy that we also get an investigation on high-speed between Oslo and Trondheim, which allows us to finally see whether it's economics in the long run as well, while at the same time laying the groundwork for choosing correctly, among other things. when deciding on the Hamar Railway Station.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3590	The representative Siv Mossleth has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3595	Alta airport is operated on a derogation and the Senterpartie will be in advance to ensure that there will be no challenges at that aerodrome. The Short Range Network in North Norway is an arena for the development and testing of zero-emission aeroplanes. It fits very well. The Central Party believes that climate-neutral aviation should be developed on the basis of North Norway and the unique position of the Short-Range Network. When I heard the Labour Party representative Barth Eide tell about his visions on zero-emission aircraft after the visit to Onkøe in Bodø, I think it is weak that the Workers' Party does not support the proposal to get a case on this back to Stortinget and will vote for it. The representative, Barth Eide, thought the bet was a colombia egg. This does not come as a surprise to the Workers' Party, because there are comments on this under the Northern Region Communication. A clear message to people who want to fly climate-neutral on the short-haul network, like onions, and especially in the north, where there are no zero-emission alternatives: vote the centre party to the autumn!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3604	Transportation is more than the smell of new asphalt. Transport is good health through increased road safety, transport is jobs and industrial development, and transport is the possibility of living where one wants to. That's why I'm glad that, through good cross-political work, we've been able to raise the continent in this field for many years. The more disappointing it is to hear the Count from the Christian People's Party commenting. After a long time being a neglected part of the country, it is almost, according to Gruvan, that he and this government have been a transport policy savior for Agder. No, Gruvan, it is good cross-political work that has been the liberator of transport policy, and it should be enough to refer to the E18 Grimstad-Kristiansand, which opened in the middle of the Red-Green Government. But still we're not in the goal. Some of the sections remain rv. 9, E18 and E39. And even though state councils from the blue-blue government have said that a new four-field road will be completed in 2027, it can take forever to reach the goal, because the same government has decided that New Roads themselves will choose where to build new roads. Even the Progress Party has now discovered this. Åshild Bruun-Gundersen stated in Agderposten that she feared that new roads to New Roads could delay E18. But that is exactly what has been the idea of the Progress Party behind the company New Roads. I can't rise above the establishment of New Roads, but I'm most concerned that the roads we need are actually being built. However, when the Progress Party for Agder is concerned about how they have organized New Roads themselves, it also shows that New Roads is not a miracle remedy in Norwegian policy, but at the same time the need for one to actually fulfill the promises given. I initially pointed out that roads are more than the smell of asphalt; they are also the road to jobs and development. In Arendal and Agder we are faced with a huge effort at a battery plant that can provide 2,000 jobs, but that requires infrastructure around, like a new road to those jobs. The government had forgotten that in its proposal for NTP. That's why I'm proud that the Workers' Party has made sure to take a new route from the E18 to the Arendal port through the battery factory in the committee's work, and that a majority have joined this. The fact that the state, in cooperation with the municipality and county council, will now contribute to the deployment of the infrastructure around the battery plant in Arendal is a top-notch industrial policy. It also shows the Labour Party's forward-looking approach to facilitating jobs in the context of the green shift. I hope the voters have noticed that. In that case, it could pave the way for a change of government to the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3618	The representative Arne Nävra has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3623	I actually thought I had three minutes – then I have to talk a little quickly here. I would first like to thank the representative Johnsen for very nice words. That SV is despicable, and that we have coverage for budget and such, is nice to hear. If I'm going to sum up a little bit, there are clear dividing lines in the green sector, we can call it environmental issues, here in the hall, and they go pretty much between the Greens, SV and Reds on the one hand, and then there are the big parties on the other – then I'm going to take a little bit of a rough look. With regard to what we can call the postponement of tenders, privatisation, etc., it is clear that the red-green opposition stands together, shoulder to shoulder – also with the organisations suffering from this. So I want to say -- since this is one of my very last posts here in the Chamber in this period -- that I want to thank the President, and also the Presidency, for a very good meeting management. I have to say that it has been quite a stag to stand here in front of the mariners. It is the largest democratic pulpit we have here in the country. So I've been here with awe.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3636	Thanks – with the nice words, the representative got five more seconds. The representative Tor André Johnsen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3643	I'm also allowed some speaking time to boast of the presidency – it's always very good meeting management. But I have to continue with a colleague who I don't want to brag about, and that's Sverre Myrli. Now I think Swearer Myrli and the Workers' Party have to decide: are we leaving the bill, as it is said here, and which is of course completely wrong, or are we spending too much money and giving too much advice? First, we're criticized for almost wasting our money, spending a lot of money and spending 4 billion. kr extra, that it is completely unprofessional and all that has been repeated sometimes during the day. But now all of a sudden, Sweary Myrli says that we're running away from the bill. I would like to say: then we have not financed our NTP, then we have no coverage for what we have proposed – and that is completely wrong. We've actually done a clear priority. We have given priority to spending the money on investing in Norway. Instead of gambled with the tax money, as the Workers' Party and Sverre Myrli do to buy shares in New York and to handle them in Paris and London, we have chosen to build, for example, rv. 4 and other roads. We have also chosen to spend money building the country instead of symbol politics in the North Sea – only electrification is 50 billion. kr, longship 25 bn. kr. These are clear priorities. We're not going to run away from the bill, we're going to give it a different priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3650	I am very pleased to record that the Committee has taken on board the fact that technological developments in the transport sector should also help to resolve two issues that appear to be our main challenges. The only thing to do is to get a job for everyone – it's job number. One. We will be able to do this on the basis of the green shift, because we also have a climate challenge to address – that is our second main challenge. There are, of course, good and efficient roadways coming in here, where the minimum consumption of energy for the carrier is an important premise. The second is how we build our roads and our bridges. We see that the oil tax package has contributed to exactly what we were asking for – that the supply industry, in parallel with the supply of oil and gas, now shifts its focus to other products and structures, where we see lessons from the oil and gas sectors benefit the transport sector. Good crossover thinking. Aluminium has been used offshore since the 1980s. It's corrosion-resistant, it's produced with water power, and it can be recycled. The weight of the material also gives advantages, and when a now has the broken code for the use of aluminium in usage instructions, the road lies open to significant innovation and technology exports to other countries as well, and we can put in place an exhibition window for aluminium bridges here at home. The main innovation is Norsk Hydro ASA, Leirvik AS, SINTEF, NTNU and Olsen, which on the shoulders of the offshore competence one has built up over decades, now sees opportunities for switching steel with aluminium also in use. This will save the environment, create new green jobs and connect our country in the most sensible way. Hordfast can also be an exhibition window for our peak competence. I am very pleased with all those who have stood by to ensure that a good report, presented by the government, is now even better by bringing in other important projects for the West and the region, which will continue to be too much of the value creation of our country. Here I am thinking in particular of the Vågsbotn–Klauvaneset on the E39 and the Bachka–Solheim on the E134 – both projects that I am very pleased that there is now broad political support and that the Right and the other government parties have participated in securing into the NTP.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3665	The debate in the Chamber today shows a lot of Møller's tears among some of the representatives. One would like to understand that the Progress Party is adding 400 billion. kr, but the serious thing is that a complete national transport plan is a governance tool for us. This reminds us a lot about the 2013 election, where the Progress Party did exactly the same thing, but what was the result of the government? They're just still trying to control the red-green NTP. When you come from Sogn and fjords, it's natural to be busy having a safe path. I am therefore very satisfied that the Workers' Party will be able to take advantage of the proposal for a national racial protection plan which deals with both national and county roads. The working party will increase the bet on race protection by 3 billion. kr during the 12 year period. This gives a safer everyday life for people, for families, for commuters and for business. There are many road projects that the government has not found room for starting up in the first scheduled period. It has been important for us in the Working Party to have the means to plan several of these projects and, if possible, to set up with startup permissions. For this reason, the Labour Party has seen 2.8 billion. kr for such projects. The strenuous mountain is an example I can go forward here. Another project I want to pull out is the Vika Mountain Tunnel. Weeks have actually been waiting for 60 years all year round, and it's the most connected highway in the whole country. This route is actually both racial and national road project in one. In the overall frame of government NTP, they have calculated parts of the permissions allocated to state roads through the frame of state municipalities. The delays in maintaining the roads are reported as weak over many years. Then it's not that easy to get the roads cleaned up. The Labour Party has in all our budgets had extra funds both for the municipalities and for the county, which would actually make a difference. The fishing ports were transferred to the county municipalities against the Labour Party. The ports are also not adequately funded, and there are four municipalities that have not signed the takeover agreement. The Labour Party has ordered the establishment of a search facility, a one-time spot of 1.8 billion. kr, for this purpose. In this way, we would have a strengthened effort on the coast and on the sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3680	I have a prayer and a reflection. The political prayer first: the link of the E134 to the E18 must not destroy Lier's geography. It is a story that goes back to at least 2007, when the municipality, under pressure from Vegvesenet, said that they had to take the road along the fjord if there were not too many delays. It was a completely crazy decision, to put it straight out. It is absolutely impossible to imagine that the traffic would be pushed into the Brakerøy crossing, which was already congested, and which would be completely overloaded if this had been realised in its time. Then came the new tunnel that was to be built after the Vegvesen initiative and after mass back and forth in the Lier municipality, and when the Stortinge had solemnly decided to grant money to the tunnel, the Vegvesen turned around. No, they wouldn't do it like that anyway – after we had adopted it here. Then there have been many processes after this, and now the matter is on the Council of State's table, in many ways, because the state has taken on parts of the planning responsibility. So this part of Lier has the most fertile part of almost all of the food soil in Norway, but the Vegvesen is very concerned that it should be built down because it is too expensive to build a tunnel. It takes too long to explain it. It's not supposed to happen. Here we have to be able to look at this from a long perspective and see what it means for the future that we get that path in the mountains, that we're going to base the so-called Viking alternative. That was the political prayer. So just a short reflection within this timeframe: I've been here for a while, like many, and we've decided over and over again that we're going to build the Ringerix Railway. Now we're closer than ever. I agree with what Trond Helleland said earlier in the debate here. That's good. But is something being done? The point is that I'm wondering what's going on, what leads to that solemn decision in this room actually isn't being realized. There is a lot of political blame, but it's also – and it's going to be a last sentence, because at the moment it's out – an invisible hand that's going out and leading to a lot of solemn decisions in the field of transportation being very delayed or not realized. That's nice.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3691	It is not often Martin Kolberg and I fully agree, but in that post to Martin Kolberg I fully agree with both of the issues he raises. I believe the Ringerix course is important. We've been going crazy for a long time, and now I really hope it gets in place with New Roads. And I agree with the Viking alternative in the case of E134. That's a good solution, and that's why we're also taking note of each other. There are people who are afraid of a proposal bonus. But it's about what you want. There's no one here who thinks there would be a majority of 372 proposals. I can guarantee that the Progress Party would vote against at least 100 of them, because they have been promoted by the Greens, and they are unlikely to support anything particularly. So to the representative Olsen from Finnmark, who was wondering if they would receive financial training in prison. I think it's quite possible to get financial training in prison – just as I think it's a good opportunity to get financial training in many places. It's actually about willingness to give priority, and the Progress Party has that will even if the Workers' Party doesn't have it. It is quite special to sit in this room and hear representatives from the Labour Party go up to the pulpit and talk about proposals. There was someone up there talking about the Stryne Mountain. There was one up there talking about Arendal. So the Labour Party does not have proposals on this. Those are notes. That's the problem. So that means there's good intentions and intentions that can really end up as an adventure that didn't happen. Because you actually have to have suggestions, and you have to decide that this is what you want. That's the problem here, and it's a little bit the same with the government parties as well. The new extra 5 billion. So you won't vote into the Storting to say that we're going to do this. That's the whole problem. Since I'm telemarking, of course, I have to talk a little bit about important projects for Telemark. The gas road is one of the projects that the Progress Party believes is an important nutrient route, with which the state would have done something when the industrial plants in Bamble were established in the 1970s. But the government ran away from that bill, and the industry took its share of the bill. I am very pleased that the Progress Party managed to push the government into 75 million. However, we believe that the State should take the entire bill and not send it over to the drivers, as the majority would like. E134 happens very well, but it should have happened even more. It doesn't just last to come to Lake Elg. In fact, we also have to make sure that we continue to work, so that we can get a solution for the Ilgsjö-Gvammen. So it's tragic that you can't put the tunnels on the Haukeli, which I've been up to in the past. There's the good notes, there's more that's in there, and there's a majority that's behind them. The same applies to Bakka–Solheim, which is also an important project. But we had to make decisions, and the majority should be able to take part in them. That is why we have promoted these proposals – to challenge those who say they are in favour, to actually vote for them as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3710	Solveig Sundbø Abrahamsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3715	This year it's 20 years since the Grand Government passed the zero vision: zero killed and hard injured in road traffic. It is a pleasure to record that last year there were for the first time zero killed children in traffic and for the first time since 1947 fewer than 100 people who lost their lives in road traffic. The national transport plan is based on the ambition that by 2030 there will be a maximum of 350 people killed and seriously injured in traffic, of which a maximum of 50 are killed, and that no one will be killed in road traffic by 2050. Traffic safety work is frequent, and there are a large number of actors involved in the work. Earlier this year, SV’s representative proposal to remove health certificates for older drivers over 80 years of age received multiples, supported by the Labour Party and the Progress Party. Right is with, among other things, Safe Traffic was very concerned about the consequences this decision will have for the work on the zero vision.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3722	The major problem with the proposed national transport plan is that the government continues to crash on motorways and free billions of off-roads, while the roads around the country fall due, fall due and fall due. The country roads to bring the large values into the markets, which are to bring them to industry, and which are to create the values, are due every day that goes. Only since 2014, it is estimated that the follow-up to the county roads has increased by about 20 billion. kr. It's got extra. It collects the limp approaching – dangerously fast – 100 billion. kr. This sounds like paper money, but if one travels from Tromvik to Grøtfjord in Troms, one sees what this lag here means. It's dangerous, it's hollow, it's messed up. Or if a traveler from Hessen to Nyrud in Finnmark – it's a dangerous road that develops on these sections here. You can take a trip all over the country and make a milkshake from every place you move. The developments that are taking place are dangerous. In my county, Troms – my constituency, as it is now called – it is only to travel on the Senja, Kvalöya, Skjervøya or Karlsøy area, where enormous values are created from fisheries and aquaculture, and then it is a miserable road. This is not a government priority. One is just concerned with something new, old infrastructure, old ideas, where one is going to bet on fossil options, and then one forgets what actually creates values in this society, what binds us together as a society, what makes us have a well-being and a national transport plan to fund the head. One is correcting itself incorrectly, one is not serious about the repair of the suspense. One is not rigging for the future either. In my part of the country we have a project that we have fought for for well over 100 years, supported by many parties up through. The remaining ones are the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Progress Party and SV. For the last 20 years, SV has been in the brink of the fight for North Norway, which was adopted over 100 years ago, and for which it is now finally a plurality. Then I will end with a prayer I too: there is a proposal on the table that is signed by SV and the Central Party, about a draft currency arrangement, which the Progress Party and the Labour Party are not behind. My prayer to the party is to support it, for their own part.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3734	As I said in my post, we all want a transport plan to be included and build the country. It is a particularly important document with important leadership in building both stronger housing and work regions, strengthening the framework conditions and not least in gaining a strong business life. A lot of people have done a lot of work to get into this transport plan. It has been two to three years to prepare the plan with recordings and rounds to get in or not to get in, and it has of course been a wish to get into the transport plan early. Then it is incredibly important that this should also be a document like that in the future, and not just a document with lots of good suggestions and good wishes. Then the value of such a transport plan falls. I remember very well the debate four years ago. Then the party representatives stood on this pulpit and tried to claim that the Workers' Party was making unrealistic proposals and would not, in so far, deal with what came from the government. Then suddenly they were very ambitious and serious. Now it looks like the same party hasn't learned from being in government, at least not with regard to the transport plan. There are probably other things that are more important, and that's what's going to happen in 90 days – the big shot. At least that's how it works when you read the proposal. I strongly recommend – although as an alternate, I no longer have the great influence to influence it – that you think carefully about what a transport plan should be in the future. Because it has to be that once you've been so lucky to get in there, you have to feel reasonably confident that there is a realism in it and a desire for it to be realized. That is what we must bring with us when we discuss this, and not let it be a proposal bonus, as others have said here. I am mildly abandoned, both over what is presented by proposals, and over what is said in the debate here today from the same party that presented this plan four years ago. I'm going to take the chance – because this is probably the last time, I don't think I'm going to go to the pulpit anymore today – to thank both the presidency and colleagues for eight years on the Storting, four years as solid and four as being. It's been a pleasure. Let it not be that the last time Juvik went to the pulpit in one case, there was a transport plan that it could not be managed after. Let us agree on a transport plan where those who have been involved and worked and have received the proposals can be sure that they want to be implemented from this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3745	I am always inspired to listen to the Transport Committee debate the National Transport Plan. With four years of experience from the committee, a debate is quick to get under way, even though some people probably thought that we have been on for many hours enough, but Eastfold has not been mentioned much in the debate, and I cannot let that pass. First of all, I want to say that the big challenge that I have heard in the debate today is that the opposition does not gather about anything in common, not about anything else clearly. Some people support the government parties, and we thank them for that – the government parties in Stortinget. Some are alone on their proposals and their own comments. There's no way in the vault. And someone settles down with comments. It's probably no secret, but I hope today's government will continue. To those who would want a North Norway runway: it's probably fine, but it lacks money, priority and what's going to be at the expense of, if it's going to be realistic at all. When that proposal came up, I thought that there was smoke intercity, and there failed both the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party just what lies as the biggest challenge in our area. For business and for travellers in my Grand Election District, Eastfold, the national transport plan is very important. Over the past eight years, there has been a historic commitment on the railways as well as on the road. Of course, it has come as a surprise that after 100-200 years someone discovered that it was mercury. I have to say that it was very good that no one discovered that mercury before, because then we had neither got Bergensbanen nor the railway to Halden at any time before. But now it's lying there, and it costs a lot. Eastfold is the gateway to and from Europe, ergo is both road and rail, sea and aviation important for the whole country in terms of solutions in my country. I'm very happy that in the first period, what's called rv is going to be sorted out. 19 – which is a highway that runs through the middle of Moss and prevents urban development – and also that we get E18 Retvet–Winterbro, from the old Akershus border to Winterbro. I also address that challenge to the Labour Party and the representative of Myrli, so that we get a couple of red-green rapporteurs in the area to agree on the ability to give priority to the location of tolls, so that they do not threaten the development of an entire region, both in that area and in the back. When the National Transport Plan was presented, I got very shut up from the first candidate for the Workers' Party in Eastfold because the railway development failed and was unable to get it in place for intercity, but that's what I'm going to get back to in the next post.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3760	The representative is welcome to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3765	I have listened to the debate today, and now at the end I thought that someone must say a little more about Eastfold than what has been said. I think that ever since the Olympics in Lillehammer, changing governments have been talking about the Eastfold course with double tracks all the way to Halden, and now we are saying that it has become so expensive that it is not certain that it will be anything. The Progress Party has put forward proposals to build it for Seut, who is at Fredrikstad. The municipality of Fredrikstad and the municipality of Sarpsborg have been pursuing a policy of congestion in recent years, based on node policies and continuing in cities, with the hope of getting a new station that will become a hub in the city. It also looks like it takes a long time. But what I've said in some places is that we have to remember that between Fredrikstad and Sarpsborg there are actually four manual railroad crossings with beams like pellets, and the schoolchildren have to stand by and wait until the train has come and gone. That I think should be a much stronger argument for having the double track built. Then we have ports. We have Svinesund and the triangle over there that should be done with, we have Borg port, which has to be done with it, and which is also in a slightly different amount, and we have Moss port. Then we have Rygge Airport, which is standing there waiting for companies that want to fly. I have heard it in debates over the last few days, and I do not understand that the people who are up and about to know, who are sitting in the hall here, continue to talk about the passenger fee of 80 kroner, which was about 80 kroner. 10 kroner cheaper than one baked in the coffee shop at Rygge, meant that an airline would not fly any more. It's deaf, and most people know it, but you use it as some kind of what I call some stupid campaign. I think most people gradually understand that that's not how it relates. Then it's the city suits. I haven't heard so many people say anything about people. We're talking about 13 billion. DKK, 8 billion. kr and 2 br. kr, it's too expensive, it's too much, it costs too much. Some people talk about economic training, etc. in the case of, inter alia: That's the Yeah, it's to remove the load on people, because it's removing the toll part. This is what the Progress Party is working for, both locally and centrally, that most people should get the least burden, and not those 1000, 2000 and 3000 dollars each month in family costs. There should be more thinking about it, and more people should talk about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3776	The representative of Nils T. Bjørke has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3781	The reason for my drawing was, among other things, that representatives Eskeland and Knutsen thought it was so strange that the centre party in Hordaland had reduced on a plant. In Hordaland we have many projects, and in 2017 we tried to equalise everyone – and what happened to today's government? None of the projects started, not even the projects they said they should open. The sotra connection started. So the Center Party has actually chosen to give priority and has said that K5 is the most important thing for us. We want it up and down, and we want to run it over. Unfortunately, no one else dares to give priority to Hordaland. We cannot risk being standing without a project this time too. I would like to remind you that both Bakka-Solheim and Vågsbotn-Klauvaneset, which are state roads, had little resources in the first proposal, so we were only forced to give priority. I think more would have done that. Both the Truck Car Association and a large plurality in Hordaland think this is the most important project.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3788	I took the floor after an article from the Workers' Party's representative, Mr. Mørland, with serious misclaims about me and the Progress Party, and I need to clarify. I'm not worried about how Nye Veier is organized – not at all. I'm proud of how Ketil Solvik-Olsen presented the king's idea and put it into life, but I'm worried about how this government with the Right, Christian People's Party and Left does not complete New Roads. This government has given New Veier eleven new projects without more funding, and I am critical of that, because it could potentially postpone the projects that are within today's portfolio. New roads have also confirmed that this could risk postponing important projects such as E18 Tvedestrand-Dørdal. So new roads need $4 billion. kr more annually to finance the new projects they have received. It has been introduced by the Progress Party into its NTP. It doesn't have the Workers' Party, and I want to claim that it's tensioning under New Roads. To the representative of Mørland: The party of progress is so proud of Nye Veier. They build faster, more holistically, and they save us billions of dollars. That is why, in the Progress Party, we want to give several projects to New Vejer, and we are fully funding them – as opposed to the government and the Workers' Party. All southers who are busy on the road see that it is the Progress Party that has delivered results. Finally, I see that the Workers' Party is very proud of a comment on the new path to Arendal Port in the NTP setting – but it does not help anything without binding decisions. That is why the Progress Party has put forward proposals in the Chamber, which I hope the Labour Party supports. One is to ask the government before the end of 2021 to find solutions together with Agder County Municipality and Lindesne Municipality to realize a new road between E39 and Spangereid. If the Workers' Party believes it is an important project, they need to support this proposal. Another proposal is to ask the government, by the end of 2021, to seek solutions in cooperation with Agder County Municipality and the Arendal Municipality to realise a new route of administration from E18 to Arendal Port and to assess the link via Fv. 415 to the port should be a highway. If the Workers' Party considers these to be important road projects, they need to support the proposals, because only decisions give the government commitments. We are totally dependent on the Workers' Party and the Center Party supporting this. Now it is the end of Christmas and good new year; now in the Advance Party we will see action. These proposals are on the table, and it is time for the Workers' Party to take a position on them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3801	I see that the debate today is so interesting that even former committee leaders are sitting in the gallery. It has to be noted. But I'm going to keep going where I left off. When the national transport plan was presented by the government, there was no lack of adjectives as to where the betrayal was, and that we were unable to get rail to Fredrikstad and not to be erased to Halden. One talks about Halden, but I'm always talking about the Swedish border, because it's like where the continuation of the railway is. And then we see that the government parts of the Stortinget are going to be $3.5 billion. kr – I think that was the last one – for planning materials, 1.5 bn. kr in the first period. What is explicitly mentioned is Fredrikstad-Larvik, and then there is something in Kongsvinger and something in Trondheim, while the Workers' Party comes up for the entire twelve-year period with comments and no commitment to planning. Talk about gastric lavage! With all the adjectives, I really have to say that for the landowners and entrepreneurs who have lived with many decades of bonding of lines in the Fredrikstad area that they are not allowed to develop, there is a cross in the roof if at least we are going to clarify the basic conditions, the trajectory choices and what is going on at the location of a train station. I'd like to mention the pig-sunders. That is the matter I have worked on most, only in 2001. It is about two thresholds located in Ringdalsfjorden and Iddefjorden into Halden, and where the sediments can spread rapidly down to Gothenburg. It doesn't like the Swedes. We tried to negotiate in 2001 that we would trade with the Swedes about Gyrodactylus salaris, and since it has been working a lot to reach an agreement. Within it lies Norway’s largest private enterprise, Nexans, which is entirely dependent on producing cables for a number of projects in the sea and the like. We're going to work on that. I see it's mentioned in the NTP, and that's important. In addition, there is a good start to dredging in the fairway to Borg Hafen – over 200 million. Now kr. We're not done with it, but the start is there. In addition, we have Rygge Air Station, which can be combined with Rygge Airport, which is a small airport, if and when Kjeller is laid down. Then I have to end by mentioning what goes on the Folloban, the Eastern Line. There has been considerable red-green resistance, but there is some reason why 50000 inhabitants and businesses should also be able to make use of connection to Folloban and travel straight to Oslo. It's a large commuter area. It's very important that we look at new methods for getting two trains an hour, more frequent departures and shorter travel time, and that we look at other possibilities that can make us get a better train offer to Halden and Sarpsborg. And then remains old brown in Sarpsborg, of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3820	I thought that I had prepared myself well for the debate today, but was not fully prepared for a party that would be the big reference to NTP. Now, I may not be sure what I have the highest competence on, but if I can be a bit of a damper, we're not going to make any start decisions today. If it is a challenge for Norway, which I would say has been there for over ten years, it is that we have invited too many to a party. We've been planning that party for many, many years, and then we canceled him in the last few years. That's what we want to do, and that's what we're doing. So I'm going to say that it's not hard to add 400 billion. NTP extra. It's not that hard. The hard job is to follow it up. I would like to read what former Minister for Transport Ketil Solvik-Olsen said in this debate four years ago. He said, ‘If everything is equally important, everything is in the blue and nothing really is funded, it doesn’t help to call it a plan, because everything has to be worked on from day to day. Having a wish list has little effect.» ‘Having a wish list has little effect’ — that’s the point. But I am positive about how NTP is like a control tool, because it is true of the treatment that Stortinget is currently doing. So to the representative Torgair Knag Fylkesnes, that's exactly what we're doing right now. Now, when we increase the permissions of the state, it's so that they can resume. But maybe the county also has to take some of its investments on the road and increase maintenance. Maybe the county has to do it. But the 16 billion that we put in here are unique. Now we're reducing the slowdown on the highway – and that's what the Progress Party got to, it was during the Progress Party's time of maintenance on the highways going down – and if we follow this plan, we'll be happy to reduce the slowdown on the highways by a third. So finally, Martin Kolberg comes with a prayer. That's the point of New Vegar. When we add enough to New Roads, we know it's coming. But on the road project, we don't know exactly when it comes. It's part of the thinking. It's part of the freedom of action, the governance, and it's worked. But it's clear that when we commit one railway project to New Vegar, it's natural that we discuss when it comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3838	As ‘Fylkesnes’, it is clear that I am busy on the road. It's natural in such a case! And we in S.B. bet hard on the road, far more than the government. With the rate of government adding up on the highway, we'll have lags for a long time to come. It is necessary to lift the county roads. It's the way of use that brings values from the districts, that carries people around safely, which is now past, past, past, and past. It's a fact. The representative, Ingerd Schou, has on several occasions given knowledge of the views of her party on the North Norway track, and not surprisingly, the projects that are from her own region are of great importance, while the projects that are in other regions are less important. And the longer they're away, the region we're in now, the less important it is. It has been our review tone from that party and that representative for a long time. In fact, the North Norway Railway has a higher socio-economic benefit than the Intercity. This doesn't mean that people like me are against intercity. We think of it as an important infrastructure project to be implemented, but we also want to build and realize the North Norway Railway. If the seafood values that leave the part of the country get only 1 kr or 2 kr in value on the market when they arrive one day earlier in Hamburg, it will only be enough to realize that path. Then we could have started on the possibilities this creates in the North East Passage, what possibilities it creates for other industries and industries, possibilities across and across: in the North Callot, where one can soon take the night train to St. Petersburg, and so on. But that kind of possibility closes an eye, because one doesn't see what we're dealing with today, as a national transport plan. One considers it primarily a transport plan for a limited part of the country. The progress game has now realized that it will not continue. Even they have now wanted to realize the railway northwards. The center party's got it all figured out. They're in, they want to realize the North Norway path. Now the Progress Party has also signaled that they want to support the proposal that is on the table here today, and that means that we have the SV, we have the Centre Party, and we have the Progress Party. Then only the party that is missing here, from this pulpit, just a few months ago, said that they want to realize the North-Norway. Then we're in a classic situation with walk the talk: if one wants to realize the path, a concept currency must apply to him as well, and that's the proposal that's on the table. I do not ask a prayer at last, but that the Labour Party follow its own stand, which is also the people with great plurality in the whole country, in all regions, in all parties: Build the North Norway Railway!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3851	It's late for the evening. There's been a long debate, and I thought I'd say a few words about the Ringerix Railway. Since it is approaching evening, and after every night, you can also tell what you dream of, and I shall say, from this pulpit, that I am actually dreaming of the Ringerix course – and that is not nonsense even! I look forward to the day that the project is realized. It will represent something absolutely amazing, great, new and important – not just for the journey time between Oslo and Bergen, but for municipalities like Ringerike, Hole, Jevnaker, Modum and not least the municipalities of Hallingdal. Therefore, it is so incredibly important that one indicates that this project must follow a planned progress plan and that there must be a clear pre-condition for the transfer from Bane NOR and the State Road Administration to Nye Weger to the project to be financed. There has been a lot of talk about when the Ringerix track can be started. It's been about 2021. Someone's talking about 2022, and there's also someone talking about even further in time. For the Progress Party, it is imperative to say that this project must be started as soon as possible. There should be no room for any further postponements and uncertainties around the Ringerix track. The poor municipality and the business community are well served for growth, and the Ringeriks track will be very important to give the areas growth in the years to come. It's not only about moving people and goods faster, but it also has to do with business development and business start-ups, new housing market that can relieve the pressure on Oslo, Drammen and surrounding municipalities, and get more to move to the fine areas around Ringerijke, Hole and Modum municipalities. This project was adopted at Stortinget in 1992. So next year, it's 30 years ago, and maybe it's time you put a shovel in the ground next year. If that happens, I'll promise the Minister of Transport that it'll be a party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3865	It was interesting to hear the contributions of the Progress Party's Bruun-Gundersen, where she almost drove a knife into the back of her old government comrades in the case of New Roads. It is, therefore, the Progress Party which ensures that this government governs, including in the field of transport policy. I understand that the Progress Party is now concerned about whether what they have contributed to rigging is actually capable of delivering. But when the government is now investing more road sections without funding, they've only learned from the Progress Party, because it was the Progress Party's own transport minister, Jon Georg Dale, who first expanded the portfolio with three new sections in this period, and decided that it would happen with the same sum. Every time I have asked written questions to the Transport Ministers we have had from the Progress Party, about my concern that we actually get the way that is promised, they have repeatedly stressed that there is a time for free competition within the New Vee portfolio. Bruun-Gundersen is very concerned about what the Workers' Party is doing today and does not – because if we do not vote in favour of proposals from the Advance Party, we are against the projects on which the Progress Party has submitted request decisions. I have a slightly different approach, and I think we in Agder will get the longest if we stand together as cross-politically as possible. That's why I'm glad that there's cross-political support for lifting the road between E18 and Arendal port, which we're now doing, but realize that it also needs to be followed up by appropriations. This week we will adopt revised national budget, where the money is actually delivered. What has the Progress Party done in this regard with regard to the road Bruun-Gundersen now lifting so high? Nothing -- they're delivering zero to it. So while Bruun-Gundersen says that if you vote in favour of the proposals of the Progress Party, the roads are being built, my claim is that if you have to vote for something, you have to vote in order for the money to be allocated. Then a more thorough and serious job needs to be done than the Bruun-Gundersen now expresses from this pulpit. It is the money that decides, not hundreds of requests decisions that do not follow the money in this room. The notes from the Working Party are clear. For the first time, we say that the state should be involved in taking responsibility for putting in place the infrastructure around the battery factory in Arendal, which can create 2,000 new jobs. It'll be a huge win both for Agder and for the country, and help us get into the green shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3878	The representative, Kirsti Leirtrø, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3883	We also deal with some issues related to the national transport plan. It might be nice to mention that. With regard to the Urban Package Ålesund, I would just like to say that the new urban climate-friendly urban development subsidy scheme in NTP has to be seen in the context of the measures for walking, cycling and public transport in the Urban Package Ålesund. The working party has doubted to be on – it was not a unanimous committee, but without SV – a trial scheme of 120 km/h. It's important that we go through what's going to be tried, and how. Finally, I would like to mention the state guarantee scheme, which we have a note on with regard to the Urban Package Ålesund, that the decisions in Stortinget also apply to the City Package Ålesund.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3894	The representative Åshild Bruun-Gundersen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3899	I don't know if the representative Tellef Inge Mørland is envious of New Vee's success story or that the Progress Party has actually succeeded so well in government in the campaign, and that's what it says when he chooses to use big words. But I can at least tell you that as long as New Roads are running, they are able to cut the cost of their projects by 20 p.m., and so it frees funds that New Roads have been able to take over three new projects within the cost framework they originally had – precisely because they build cheaper, faster and better. The Workers' Party should be able to admit that soon. In the case of E39 down to Spangereid, we've added 600 million. kr. We've added 500 million. kr for E18 to Arendal Harbour. This is therefore fully financed in the proposal for the NTP of the Progress Party, but the Labour Party did not want to be part of it. When the Workers' Party does not spend more money on the table of an NTP, it is of course difficult to compromise, but I tried at least – to the great frustration of the Workers' Party's representatives – to meet them in a fissure team with the State and the county council, but they only want the county council to take these costs on its own. Now I understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3906	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3911	I thought I'd come to the end, but I've realized that the case rapporteur is probably coming as the last person. Firstly, I would like to say to the representative, Mr Igstad, who has twice said that the Progress Party has been against Lysaker-Ramstadsletta: that is not true. We had a proposal, but when our proposal for full state funding fell, we were opposed because we would not vote for tolls. I think you should be real when you go to the pulpit twice and claim that someone else has voted against. So that's not the reality. The second is that we're actually going to do something now. Now we have to make sure that a proposal has a majority. Proposal No. 6, which goes on the Eastfold track, the Progress Party will support. It's obvious, and that means it's possible to do things. That's where I'll encourage others too. When we are going to deal with and vote tomorrow, there may be some explanations of vote from the Progress Party on some of the other proposals. Then I would like to thank you for the debate. There has been a funny debate, as it should be with the national transport plan. Then we get to hope that it won't be a fairy tale, but that it will be really good for people all over the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3922	It looks like we might be approaching the end. I'm going to try to contribute to that I'm actually not going to post any more posts afterwards, but I only have a few comments. As far as the concept selection investigation for the North Norway Railway is concerned, there is something the government is already doing, but in a larger perspective, where we are looking at the entire transport infrastructure. I have some problems understanding what the independent KVU is really going to mean in addition to what is already there today. To the extent that it is an honest matter to promote a proposal for a KVU, but I do not see the need for it. With regard to New Roads and the portfolio of New Roads, it is such that Nye Veier has carried out a good deal of project with the money they have had since they were started. They have completed a good deal of projects, and as the representative Bruun-Gundersen was in it, they complete a good deal of projects for maybe 19-20 pst. lower cost than envisaged. This means that there is room to expand the portfolio of New Roads within the current financial framework and have a credible progress plan on it. I just wanted to mention it in the debate. What I really took the floor for was that I need to also explain how we handle all these proposals on a single project. As we see it, we've started with a total of 1,200 billion. kr. There's a tremendous amount of money. If we had gone into an arrangement now that we should have started to form a majority of many single proposals on a single project, we would have lost complete control of the overall financial framework. It is true that the representative Myrli also had to say that we had completely lost credibility and seriousness in the plan. I think that would be terribly unfortunate, simply because we owe people out there to have a national transport plan that is predictable and that we can realize. Then there may be disagreement about how large that frame should be, but from our perspective, and from the large majority here in the hall – as I read it, at least – it is about 1,200 billion. kr. Therefore, we will not vote in favour of any single project in the voting, simply because we see that it will challenge the overall framework, the total funding and the feasibility of NTP. It is not that we disagree with many of these proposals. That's a lot of good suggestions. I think I could go through most of the list that the Progress Party has put on the table, and said that this project I think is good, and I think this is good, but within the financial framework we have set, we don't find room for it. That is why we will also vote against the proposals on a single project, because that is the way we can have a reasonable approach to a total framework we can implement.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3935	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3940	Just so you don't get a wrong impression of what's going on from the government: there's no concept selection of the North Norway track that leads from the government's side. No one is going to make any concept evaluation of the North Norway track with what is proposed by the government. They have proposed a concept-valuation of transport solutions in the north, i.e. an assessment of the North Norway railway. Transport solutions in the north – then we talk about air and sea and land and roads and hams and horses and carts and the whole thing, i.e. an assessment of the North Norway railway. So at least the committee leader must not believe that one is involved in any concept-valuation of the North Norway Railway. If there is something unclear about decisions that have been taken, I expect the Council of State to contact those who are behind the decisions, no matter what is unclear – as we have a good parliamentary tradition in Stortinget. There should be no reason to go against things you should be too.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3945	The representative Sverre Myrli has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3951	Finally, I would just like to say that the Workers' Party is very much in favour of a concept selection investigation for the North Norway Railway. It has been proposed by the Labour Party in Stortinget, but unfortunately it has been voted down. We have asked SV what is meant by an independent KVU, but not answered it. There are rules on how to implement KVUs. First it's KVU, then it's KS1, then it's decision, municipal plan, regulation plan and KS2. These are the rules, and the government decides which concept to use for further planning. As to what an independent KVU is: is it to follow rules other than those of other KVUs? That's what we don't understand. But the KVU for the North Norway Railway, we're in favour. So I would say that the Workers' Party is not going to vote for the development of individual projects, because we think it would be unfortunate if several hundred proposals could now be adopted without that being economic coverage. If the President gives me three seconds, I am sure the Secretariat is happy that I announce that the Workers' Party will vote in favour of proposal No. 11, 15, 125, 128, 168, 171, 204, 208, 251, 258 and 320. Thank you for the debate!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3962	It may seem that I am desperate to have the last word in the debate. That's not why I'm speaking. I came to think that it might be nice to thank the Committee for a very good cooperation over the last four years. This is well for the transport committee's part of the last debate; we do not have any more issues again. I've greatly appreciated the cooperation we've had, and I think it's in place to be allowed to thank you for that from the pulpit here. I think we're a good bunch, even though we disagree politically. I don't know if 'gut' is a whole parliamentary expression, but at least we've had a lot of fun with each other, even though we sometimes have some political fighters. So a thousand heartfelt thanks for a good cooperation! I see the sun shining out, and the committee's been thinking about having a little fun social -- out in the open, for the purpose of infection. And we're looking forward to that, too. Thank you so much for your cooperation so far. I almost forgot that we also have a government council in the hall here. Now the Council of State has not been with us for four years, but I also think we have had an incredibly good cooperation with the Council of State. I want to thank him for a good work on the big message – and also for the cooperation we have had against the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-14.ana.ud492e3971	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 31-38. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
