ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e210	The representatives Fredric Holen Bjørdal and the Bears Moxnes, who have been licensed, have once again taken their seats. From the representative of Willfred Nordlund, an application for care leave is made from 7 to 18 June. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Kari Anne Bøkestad Andreassen, is invited to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e240	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meeting this week – and considers it adopted. The President will propose Svein Harberg and Jon Georg Dale. – Other proposals are not available, and Svein Harberg and Jon Georg Dale are unanimously elected presidents of this week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e253	The representative of the Bears Moxnes will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e258	Red proposes that the government orientate the United States spying against Norway and launches its own spying investigations, and we will be dealing with this in accordance with § 39(c) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e263	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox Case No. 1–18 will be treated as a whole. The cases are the second reading of laws and relate to legislative acts 140–157.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e475	No one has asked for the floor. Case No. 19 and 20 will be treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e505	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to four lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e512	The case concerns the establishment and use of a corona certificate and consent to the inclusion of a regulation on a corona certificate. While large sections of the Committee support the government’s legislative proposal, the Centre Party and the SV have alternative proposals that they themselves will present. As the infection pressure decreases and more is protected, both the public and the business community have a perfectly legitimate expectation of facilitating infectious measures as soon as possible, and the use of corona certificates can also facilitate a faster reopening of society. The Committee and the Government have also proposed that the certificate should contain evidence of vaccination status, disease or negative test result, but when a negative test result is to be equivalent to protection, further consideration is required. With this proposal, the Government will have a regulatory body to determine when the certificate can be used. It is most nearby to relax on number limits and on entry. It is important to note here that the certificate is to be used to provide benefits, not to set restrictions. This means that you can also use this certificate to open things that would otherwise have been closed, not to reduce access to, for example. shops, hairdressers or public offices. These rules shall apply on a temporary basis. The government proposes a maximum of six months, but has also taken the view that the rules on the use of a corona certificate will be terminated in the past if the disease situation would indicate that it is no longer necessary. I would also like to comment briefly on the proposal from the Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Centre Party and SV in the setting. We all agree that persons who are protected should not be at quarantine hotels before entry. Therefore, prior to the referral to the Committee, the government had found a temporary solution in order to ensure, first and foremost, that those vaccinated in Norway, where we have a safe and verifiable system through healthnorge.no, release quarantine hotels. I understand that people who have been vaccinated in countries other than Norway are impatient, but here it is important to stress that we need to have a secure and verifiable system that does not make it easy to cheat when they enter. Then we had also risked that it was easier to get import infection, and we don't want it now. That is why we believe from the government parties that the proposal promoted by these parties is in fact already under follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e531	The Labour Party is behind the government in the case of Korona certificates – certificates to provide benefits and not restrictions on people’s lives. However, we would stress that inertia in the vaccination of the population could help to reinforce the negative and unfair effects of the corona certificate by providing a loss experience for those at the back of the queue. In the worst case, this will also negatively affect motivation and good spirit and put priority under greater pressure. We believe that requiring negative testing as an alternative to domestic vaccination could compensate for some of these challenges, and that it will increase the confidence and legitimacy of using a corona certificate. We need to keep the vaccination rate up and ensure that as much as possible across the country gets the first vaccine within a few weeks. This is primarily about people's lives and health where they live, and we see that outbreaks occur in areas of the country where vaccination is slow. In that case, the vaccine passport means little, but the degree of vaccination is very high. Let us not forget the most important job – to get the most vaccinated, preferably.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e540	In the proposal, one requests the consent of the Storting to participate in the decision of the EEA Committee on the inclusion in the EEA Agreement of the Regulation on the Korona Certificate. Together with a Schengen Regulation, it shall form the EU’s common framework for the certificate of Corona. There are several reasons for skeptical consent to include the relevant EU Regulations in the EEA Agreement. The relevant EU legislation is not based on the protection of infectious or public health, but on the free movement of persons between EU and EEA countries. The centre party argued that the adoption of the Korona Certificate Regulations does not in any way limit Norway’s access to take the necessary measures to combat the pandemic. It is also unfortunate that the Storting should consent to the inclusion of EU legislation before the EEA Committee has considered it. The centre party will support the inclusion of the EU Regulation in order to ensure that during the pandemic it will be useful and necessary for the Nordics who will travel to other EEA countries. It is also important that there be a temporary arrangement. But when it comes to the introduction of a national corona certificate, the Centre Party is very sceptical about the government's proposal. Regulating entry and exit to Norway on the basis of information on vaccination, disease or negative testing is quite different from regulating access to activity in Norway. The government's proposal for a corona certificate for domestic use is also not linked to the infection situation or pandemic management, but is proposed for business start-ups. The government's proposal for a national corona certificate is linked to major ethical dilemmas. It is discriminatory on the basis of health information. Of course, this may have a positive impact on business, culture, sport, etc., but it raises questions about how this can be practised while ensuring equal treatment and preventing discrimination as a central principle. There is also a risk that it may be perceived as a general obligation to legitimise. The central party believes that the government has proposed far too wide a mandate for the use of a corona certificate. That proposal cannot be supported by the Centre Party. So we're making an alternative proposal with a narrowing down of what such a national corona certificate can be used for. Among other things, access to public services, educational institutions, shops, shopping centres, training centres, health services or personal care services cannot be conditional on access to them, and it cannot be used in private homes, and it must never be used in the workplace. This proposal makes us an alternative. If that proposal falls, the Central Party does not support the proposal to amend the Code on Corona Certificates. With that, I'll take up the proposal of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e557	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e562	This law gives the government great powers. SV is for a Korona certificate. It will provide more opportunities to relax measures, but it is legal and ethical to shut people out when they cannot infect others — if they are fully vaccinated, immune since they have had the corona before, or have taken a coronary test. That's why SV is for this. The Corona Commission presented its report with clear criticism of the democratic anchoring of disease prevention measures. This law is very broad and has very few control mechanisms. Therefore, the SV promotes two concrete solutions. The first is that the Stortinget gets control of the regulations – the rules. In the Korona Act, one-third of the gutter representatives can stop a regulation so that the government should not dissociate and use the law for more than they should. The stork hall closes in the summer. Elections are not given the opportunity to make haste proposals or ask questions at Stortinget. That's why it's even more important to get this in place. There is a lot of policy on who is being exempted from the rules on infectious diseases. We have learned this after the government's relief for Hurtigruten and the imports of labour following enquiries from the NHO in the summer of 2020. The second is to frame the law better. SV will minimise the use of the certificate. The Korona certificate should not be used for educational institutions, demonstrations, private homes or employment. SV also proposes several other concrete tightening. We have received good advice from several lawyers, like Hans Petter Graver. The centre party and SV have almost the same legislative proposal, but SV is more open to use the training centre certificate and personal care certificate. I'm promoting all the SV's proposals. SV will vote secondary for the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e579	The representative Nicholas Wilkinson has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e584	The Progress Party supports the government's proposal for the introduction of a Corona certificate. It's not what someone claims, that this should shut someone out – on the contrary. This provides opportunities to re-open society, get the wheels started and get the business going, so that people can participate in several events and activities. So this gives possibilities and not limits – that's why the Progress Party supports it. However, when explaining this with a quarantine hotel, it is important to clarify that an exception should be granted when you have completed the vaccination. Yeah, there's a reason for that. There has been a line change earlier in the Chamber where the Progress Party addressed the problem of introducing measures, it should be professionally considered and not just considered as punishment. If you do not have professional assessments and professional basis for what you say, you will feel unnatural, wrong and disproportionate. It is unnatural that those who have been vaccinated or have their own home cannot take quarantine at home. You should not use a quarantine hotel as a penalty for travelling. This has been important for the Progress Party, and that is why we are still behind the proposal. It is good that the government meets it now. I think it's wise, just to keep respect and trust in society. Because it is trust that has been given, from the inhabitants to the authorities to a great extent. There have been interventional measures, and it is also important that the authorities respond to the constant use of them, and do not use any other reaction patterns than what is professionally thought out. So for the Progress Party, this is just positive. It allows more people to get started, and we can get more people out, and it's also good for those who haven't been vaccinated. It is not just about giving benefits to those who have been vaccinated, it also helps those who have not been vaccinated – the few who for some reason either cannot or will not. It'll be positive for the whole community.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e593	The revival of society must be fair, and we must make important decisions with a good democratic basis. In principle, we are in favour of a corona certificate that can enable society to be opened up more quickly in an infectious manner, and that people come back to work and in other activities again, but I am against the government's bill because it is designed with too wide powers and without defining and delimiting the purpose of the certificate in the bill, and it has not been open to consultation either. When the government applies for a certificate without the legislative proposal containing what it should be used in concrete terms – whether or not infectious measures should be taken in relation to persons holding it – it involves far too wide a mandate. Red agrees with the lawyers who recommend that legal regulation should be made far more comprehensive and that the law must specify, as a minimum, the specific purpose to which such a certificate may have rights or facilitate. This can be of great importance to people's ability to participate or not in society. When the pandemic has led to great uncertainty in people's lives, it is all the more important with a good framework for what such a certificate implies, and what it can and cannot be used for. There is a difference between regulating entry and exit based on information on vaccination, disease and negative testing and regulating access to domestic activities. We are going to vote in favour of the alternative legislative proposals from the Centre Party and SV over the government because it is designed with too wide powers and without the purpose of the certificate being defined and defined to a large extent. If the alternatives to mitigation fall, Red will vote against the government's legislative proposals as they stand. We believe that both proposals are clear improvements to the government's approach. We do not agree that a certificate can be required for general daily activities that should be open to anyone who is not in isolation or quarantine, for example. access to public services, to education, to shops and to public opinions. In his response to the hearing, the LO also said it was completely wrong if the certificate had any significance for employment. Red agrees. The law must be clear on that, too. Then I am for a safety valve where a third of the minority in Stortinget can stop parts of a regulation. It is particularly important since the government's legislative proposals with too wide powers seem to have a majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e604	The legislative proposal shall establish a system of safe and verifiable documentation of vaccination status, undergo coronary disease and test results, and provide general rules for the use of a corona certificate. The Government has also requested the consent of the Stortinge to participate in the decision of the EEA Committee on the inclusion in the EEA Agreement of the EU Regulation on Korona Certificate. This Regulation will establish a common framework for the issue, verification and acceptance of a Corona certificate in Europe. The Korona certificate could contribute to a gradual and controlled reopening of society. The population has an expectation of relief from quarantine and other burdensome measures for the protection of infectious diseases in line with the number of vaccinated persons. Similarly, business needs to get wheels started as quickly as possible. This is desirable because it reduces both the personal and financial adverse effects of the pandemic. It is important for me to make it clear that Korona licences are to be used domestically to provide benefits, not to impose restrictions. It is proposed that the Ministry be empowered to provide for evidence of corona status in order to obtain relief from the covid-19 regulation. Assessments as to the availability of differentiations in the protection of infection must be made on the basis of existing legislation of the Code of Disease Protection and temporary law on restrictions on the entry of non-residents for reasons of public health. It is proposed that the Norwegian legislation should apply for six months because the need is temporary and EU legislation should be time-limited. The Korona certificate must work both within and outside our borders. As long as EU legislation exists, Norwegian citizens will be able to benefit from the Korona certificate when travelling to other EEA countries. On 20 May, the European Parliament and the Member States concluded an agreement on the content of the Regulation. The agreement involves certain amendments to the proposal attached to the proposal, but not for fundamental reasons, such as determining its use by national authorities. This Regulation has not been published and final but is intended to apply in the EU during June 2021. The draft decision of the EEA/EFTA States to the EEA Committee is under consideration in the EU bodies. The consent of the majority to participate in the decision of the EEA Committee is necessary in accordance with the second paragraph of Section 26 of the Constitution. Legislative amendment proposals relating to the EU rules on Korona Certificate cannot enter into force until the EEA Regulation has been adopted and incorporated into the EEA Agreement. Such a decision cannot take place until after the adoption of the Regulation in the EU and has therefore not yet been taken. In order to save time and ensure legal entity throughout the EEA, it is important that the decision can enter into force simultaneously for the EEA/EFTA countries, or as soon as possible after the Regulation for application in the EU Member States. The Government will return to the Storting should substantial changes be decided on in the draft EEA Committee decision and Regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e616	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e621	I have a question that doesn't go directly on the corona certificate, but I ask it anyway – and we'll see if the council has the opportunity to answer. I am contacted weekly, or really daily, by people who have their loved ones abroad – girlfriends, grandparents. I'm going to have a meeting with the action group later today. What they're very confused about is that there's no predictability. We know that giving predictability in one pandemic is difficult, but at the same time there is a group that feels that they have been pushed from one step to the other, which increases that burden by being separated from either grandparents, girlfriends or spouses in third countries, etc. My question to the Council of State is: What can the government do now to give this group a little more predictability, so that they have clarity about what to do in the weeks to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e628	With the clarification the representative had even that the question should be within the matter, the President leaves the word to the Council of State Höie.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e633	There is also another government council that has the constitutional responsibility for the expulsion regulation, as this is all about, but I'm still going to try to answer the question. It's true, as the representative said, in the original plan of the government it was open for entry for this group to Norway in step 2, which we are now in. Both the Health Directorate and the FHI recommended, on the basis of the risk associated with new mutations and the uncertainty surrounding it, to push that opening to step 3. The government has announced that the earliest time you can go from one step to another is three weeks after the change. That means that from June 17th and beyond we can go over to step 3. We are now waiting for recommendations from the Health Directorate and the FHI on this, and the government will quickly decide on it. But this is what the plan is now. It's in that it's going to open up to this group in step three.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e642	There were several respondents in the case hearings who asked whether it was necessary to introduce a corona certificate domestically as the vaccination is currently ongoing and, according to that plan, one could achieve full vaccination, or flock immunity, in one to two months. That's what I think is an appropriate question. Now this is a matter of giving a home, it's not a matter of introducing, so I'd like to ask the Council of State: is it such that one considers the need for a corona certificate based on the evolution of the infection situation, the vaccination and probably the flock immunity, or is this introduced nationally anyway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e647	No, it's assessed, and it's clear that we don't want to use this system more than necessary. As I have emphasised, and which also emerges clearly from the proposition: this scheme will not be used to keep more stringent infectious measures longer than necessary, but it will be used to open up to more earlier. That means that the closest thing to think about when we're going to step 3, is that this certificate, for example. may be used to open up some major events requiring a green Korona certificate. I then underlined that testing is equivalent to vaccination and was subjected to covid-19. If everything goes well, we may not be using that scheme for a very long time in Norway, but this is also part of our preparedness for things not going well. If significant changes occur, e.g.: With new mutations, and you have to have infection protection measures beyond what we see today, we have this system in place in order to have less stringent rules than what we had if we hadn't had this system in place. So the adoption of this law today and the establishment of that system are part of our preparedness if everything isn't going well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e654	Thanks for the answer. I think it's good that it comes out, because it hasn't come out well enough that it's not the introduction of the plural decision today, but a possibility for it. If this is introduced because of the situation, there have been some questions from us in the Center Party, questions we have wondered about, such as this in governance practice. When a Korona certificate is used at the border, there are police and things that look at it, but if it is to be used in cultural life, at sporting events, there is something very different in principle. Who should control this? There are no people with images, or should there be people with images like that? Abuse of this in private homes or other contexts should also not be punishable. If introduced, how should a certain control be ensured?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e659	It is true that when this is used domestically, the person responsible for the access control at the event will be the one who will see the certificate. But then it is important for me to stress that we are creating a digital version of this certificate for domestic use that contains very limited information. It does not contain the full name. It contains only the year of birth – not the date of birth. And it only contains the status, that is, the certificate is green. Those who control this will not know if it's green because you've been vaccinated, because you've been through covid-19, or because you've been tested. It is a very limited health and personal information provided by the certificate. We're just doing that to take care of the issues that the representative here is dealing with.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e664	It's almost the same question that Moflag from the Workers' Party asked. When we're going to have a Korona certificate, it's a lot about those who travel to Norway, and maybe not about being at a quarantine hotel. The Health Directorate proposed several months ago that grandparents, parents or girlfriends from other countries in the EEA region, and third countries, should be given the opportunity to travel to Norway. It hasn't happened during this government. But we also have an arrangement in the United States. We've talked to some of those who have a girlfriend in the United States, and they've said very clearly – in the United States – that they can use an apostille label to make sure that this person is fully vaccinated. Then they have a corona certificate that, I hope, can be used equivalent to the Norwegian Korona certificate. Is it possible to use the apostille mark from other countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e669	Firstly, it is not correct that the Health Directorate has recommended opening up the group to which the representative referred. It was in the government's plan that we should open up to the group in step 2, which we are now in, but it was the directorate's and FHI's initiative to postpone this to step 3. It is important for me to stress that one does not repeat that information, because it creates a lot of frustration in the population if one does. It was a professional recommendation, which the government chose to follow. Yes, we are also working to see how other countries' schemes can be verifiable in Norway. It's complicated. The QR code system developed in Europe with the Gateway system enables us to exchange QR codes and check each other's certificates. This is more difficult from other countries, but there is also something that is being worked on, and there are opportunities for persons who have an ID in Norway to receive post-registered foreign vaccinations in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e676	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e684	I have an explanation of vote. I think that we can substantially support the loose proposal from SV, which was made today, which is a little less complete than ours. So we are voting in favour of it substantially. If that happens, we will vote against, as we have warned in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e689	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 19 and 20.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e706	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e713	We are dealing with changes in the Climate Act, which is essentially about what will be Norway’s climate targets for 2030 and 2050. The Climate Change Act and the Paris Agreement state very clearly that all countries’ climate targets can only be increased. It would be contrary to the Paris Agreement to reduce what should be our objectives. I thank the Committee for good cooperation, and I think all parties are going to explain their views, so I am going to spend time on what is the Workers' Party's proposal. By 2030, it is good that we are getting to increase our targets today. We still believe that what comes from the government is too defensive. We think it's too defensive to say that we're going to cut up to 55 pst. We're suggesting that we say 55 pst instead. Cut, cut, We see that other countries around us are increasing their targets, and Norway should also be involved in doing so. Unfortunately, it is only the Green and SV Environment Party that supports our proposals today, and we do not have a majority – at least not yet – so I would say that we from the Labour Party will vote in a subsidiary way for proposal No. 2, from the government parties, so at least we make sure that there is a majority in order to increase the targets. For 2050, there is essentially agreement between the parties that we should cut 90-95 pst. However, from the opposition side, we propose to change the concept of ‘low-emission’ to ‘net zero emissions’. It is not about our emission targets that we agree on. It's about what kind of term we're going to use. If we had said ‘net zero emissions’, we would be on the same side as the most progressive countries towards the Glasgow meeting in November. We believe that Norway should do that. Finally, the Labour Party also has a few other suggestions, and I will go through some of them briefly. We propose to get tripartite cooperation and social dialogue into the Climate Change Act. It is an important part of the Paris agreement, and we believe that this should also be reflected in the Norwegian climate legislation. This government appears to have a political allergy to the use of tripartite cooperation or trade unions and employers' responsibilities in climate policy. We have proposed this here, we proposed it in the context of the climate communication, we have proposed it a number of times, and every single time it has been rejected, also to protests from them. We don't get a majority for that today, but here the whole opposition, except for the Progress Party, stands together, so there are good opportunities to change on September 13. Finally, let me address a proposal that is about getting an annual climate in Stortinget. We have an annual financial speech, and we have a number of annual presentations, including: on equality, European issues and other policy fields. We believe that the most important field in our time definitely deserves a speech of its own and a debate of its own here in Stortinget every year. I am actually a little surprised that the government parties do not agree with such an attitude, that we should do that. But the tradition is that the government parties vote for all proposals, unless the Progress Party is also part of them. With that, I recommend setting and addressing the proposal Workers' Party is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e730	The representative of Åsmund Aukrust has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e735	Earlier this year, we dealt with the climate communication, which was supposed to be the road map to achieve our climate targets. Only today do we deal with the question of what goals it is. The EU, on its side, with which we have committed ourselves to working together to achieve the climate objectives, has launched a comprehensive process that means possible changes to all the legislation that affect how emissions are calculated and accounted for in the agreement we have together. So we have no idea, a little bit, where we're going, or how we're going to get there. The centre party regrets that the process has been reversed. It makes it difficult to make good decisions that will actually take us to the objectives we are obliged to achieve in the Paris Agreement. We're not alone in thinking that. The NHO is one of the hearing bodies that points out this precisely, and believes that the Storting should first address the outcome of the EU climate target process before changing the climate law and setting new percentage targets. The Norwegian climate debate has the mark of being a target debate, a competition to set the highest possible goals, but it is a little constructive competition, which does not bring us forward. It is important to remember that the Paris Agreement points to a balance between anthropogenic emissions and greenhouse gas uptake. So we need a large-scale commitment to carbon-negative solutions. For the Central Party, it is therefore essential to know how the forest and land use legislation becomes for Norway and how it will affect the use of our natural resources. What we need is a regulatory framework that ensures that we can continue to make use of nature and maximise carbon uptake in soil and forest and go from non-renewable production of goods to renewable production while contributing to increased carbon capture. The fundamental problem in this context is that the objectives we have committed ourselves to through the EU are carbon neutrality, i.e. emissions are no greater than carbon capture. How can this be linked when the government does not propose solutions that include bonds or set binding targets? We need climate-negative measures, and an example of this is the wood pulp producers Norske Skog Saugbruks in Halden and Borregaard in Sarpsborg. They have reduced their own emissions to close to zero, produce climate-neutral products and would be climate-negative with a capture and storage facility at Borg Havn. On the other hand, the government has no strategy to stimulate that type of activity, product or plan, and it is quite alarming. All in all, this suggests that the Storting should work more on the content, wait for what will become the current legislation in this area, and in the meantime work to achieve the goals already set. Furthermore, we think it is a good idea that the Stortinget debate the objectives annually, as the Labour Party has proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e748	This year, 32 years have passed since Norway for the first time discussed climate goals. It was in 1989, and it was as a result of the Brundtland report. At that time, it was decided to have a target of stabilising Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions by 2000. We all know the story -- it was a goal we didn't achieve. When SV today submits a proposal to cut emissions by 70 pst. By 2030, compared to 1990, it is not just an ambitious target, but it is also an objective that we are pursuing with a concrete plan to cut it in Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions by 70 pst. At the same time as cutting emissions by 70 p.m., we are building new jobs to contribute to this, and we are ensuring a fair distribution in the country. Any party that has ambitions to resolve the climate crisis needs to present a plan for how they intend to do so. It did SV last autumn, when we presented a plan that showed how the emissions should be cut by 60 pst., and it does SV now, when we are also going to submit a plan showing how the emissions should be cut by 70 pst. 70 pst. is essential. We know that the climate crisis has accelerated in recent years. We get daily reminders that it's on its way. That is why I am addressing the proposal to amend Section 3 that SV has presented today, but at the same time I would like to say that we are going to vote subsidiaryly for what is the majority's recommendation in the committee position regarding Section 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e759	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e764	The Government Parties have written one special note on this matter, where they ‘refer to the adjusted climate objective and that Norway was the first Western country in the world to announce a more ambitious goal.’ Sorry, but when I read that sentence, I ask myself what is important to the government in this process. Is that the new reinforced goal, or is it that Norway was first – that we could sung a little bit more in the shine of being a little better and a little faster? This is called symbols. When the symbols come before the desired results, there is every reason to be concerned. The question then is: would we have reported the same goal if we had waited until our leading partners in the climate field had reported their objectives, and had we had the opportunity to adapt our after these? Norway is not the problem. Nor is the European Union the problem. Norway should therefore endeavour to have the same conditions as the EU in this case. We now choose to put ourselves and Norwegian businesses in a worse position than competing businesses. We have, and we could, because Norway has had an oil smurf economy. But if parts of that opinion get right, and we get significant reductions in our petroleum activity, and our economy becomes more like our neighbouring countries, then we should make sure that we compete under the same conditions, because it is not about Norway not maintaining its international obligations, or that greenhouse gas emissions through an amended agreement would increase. No, rather the opposite. The Climate Act does not impose political solutions, choices or instruments; it is up to any government that is seated. This means that we do not know the consequences or costs of the measures either. We know that economics, trade and ownership are becoming more and more international, and that locality is becoming smaller and smaller. No enterprise, whether Norwegian or international, will establish itself in Norway or remain in Norway, unless we can offer at least as good conditions as everyone else. I must admit that I am also disappointed with parts of the business that have not asked any more questions and got more concerns, but have been very concerned about, and trust very much, that the fees that they are charged will be compensated. I am sincerely afraid that it will be a few years before you see the result of today's decision, and that it may be too late. Finally, I would like to refer to the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e777	The representative of Terje Halleland has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e782	From the left we are very happy that we have a government that delivers on climate. It concerns both cutting off, setting offensive targets and updating the law. We're on the front line. It also sees business around Europe and elsewhere in the world. They come here to develop new technology, to invest. We are the country that has gone in front to get carbon capture and storage. Over 17 B.C.E. I'm going to spend the next few years getting to that. And then we get a show here from the Center Party and SV, where the Center Party goes in to use technology to take CO 2 out of the atmosphere, doesn't realize that there are anthropogenic climate challenges and will wait and see, while SV raises the goal considerably, to 70 pst. It's a spat and a crack, and it's hard to see how the two parties in a so-called wing on the left hand side of the policy will be able to achieve the goals and commitments we've taken on. It'll be exciting, forward towards the elections and the election campaign, to follow how they on the red-green side have thought they'll take hold of this. The Aukrust representative put on the table a plan to actually say you're cutting more, but you don't, by having a zero emission target by 2050. With the area and the forest we have in Norway, we can't sit and wait. We have to do these measures that we're doing. By 2030, we have very concrete measures to cut our own emissions and go ahead. It also sees business and comes to help develop technologies that will cut emissions. By 2030 we have a bad time, and by 2050 we have unfortunately even worse time. Now, the International Energy Agency has pointed out that we have to get our heads off the sand and take over reality, and it has to speed up technology development. The most interesting thing about this debate here is to see the difference on the civil and red-green side. On the bourgeois side, we deliver. I am very pleased that the Progress Party has been involved in putting in place carbon capture and storage. We've been leading the world developing an infrastructure for electric cars. We show that in passenger transport it is possible to cut. Up-to-date figures for climate change emissions will be available tomorrow. It'll be exciting to see, but everything indicates that we're cutting further. Finally, I would like to mention the proposal that the Left has with the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e800	The representative Ketil Kjeseth has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e806	Today, when we update the Climate Act with new, reinforced goals, this is particularly pleasing to us in the Christian People's Party, which has been fighting for many years to get its own climate law in place. After our representative proposal on climate law was voted down under the red-green government, the Christian People's Party again participated in delivering a representative proposal on its own climate law in 2014. At the time, we got the majority of the population into a climate law, and after several rounds of investigation, the climate law was finally adopted on 2 June 2017. The size also decided at that time to set up a technical estimation committee to provide a supplementary discussion base on the climate effects of different measures. Overall, the Climate Act is today a good tool that provides a targeted follow-up to our climate commitments. It is therefore gratifying that today we can update the law with strengthened climate goals. In February 2020, Norway, as the first Western country, notified an enhanced 2030 climate change target under the Paris Agreement. The reinforced 2030 target is to reduce emissions by at least 50 pst. and up to 55 pst. compared to the level of emissions in the reference year 1990. It is good that the government has been offensive to report reinforced targets. This government is also the first to deliver not only on offensive targets but also to present a credible, realistic and feasible plan for achieving climate targets. This government is also the first to deliver a climate budget in connection with the state budget. The Christian People's Party believes that this is the right way to go. The time has now to be over with foreclosure policies on new objectives without realistic plans to achieve them. It's not enough just to be ambitious if you don't know how to achieve the goals. The important thing is that we actually manage to achieve the goals, and this the government has presented a realistic plan for how we can do, which we in the Christian People's Party are very pleased with.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e819	It's good weather today. If I hadn't been outside, I would have known it anyway, considering how fast it would be in the hall, so I thought it was okay to spend some time on the speaker's chair. Four years ago, I joined the Energy and Environment Committee. Then there were some demands that were met as climate politicians. One was that there had to be a conversion on a Norwegian base. It was important in the context of climate policy, but also important because Norway needs to be converted and less dependent on one industry. The second was that we had to put in place a credible carbon capture and storage project. The red-greens couldn't reach their targets. Now it was time to be able to work together throughout the Storting, secure good agreements, make sure that business was involved, but also that business was involved in taking risks, in order to increase the chance of success. The third was that you needed higher ambitions. The fourth was that you needed binding targets, not targets that were such that when you were approaching the year, you could just push on the climate target. Time does not allow me to take everything, but the point is that these were some of the main requirements. I am happy to represent the largest government party on Stortinget, which has delivered on all the demands of climate policy that came four years ago – all without exception. What we are doing today is the crown of the work: We raise the Norwegian climate targets – 50-55 pst. by 2030, 90-95 pst. until 2050. In addition to a number of concrete measures, this government has already presented a climate plan that accurately demonstrates how the climate targets can be met by 2030. If this plan is followed, the climate targets will be met. There are people who are trying to say that nothing is happening in climate policy. There are people in the Workers' Party who are still trying to say that the ambitions are not high enough. It is festive from a party that has not submitted one proposal that shows how the cuts could get faster, or that it became more cut by 2030. It shows that it is approaching election campaign. But I think those who are concerned with climate policy should vote for what has proved to be the credible option, namely, the sitting government, both to cut emissions and to have growth and value creation at the same time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e842	In 2017, Stortinget Norway adopted its first climate legislation. The law is important because it binds this and future governments to convert Norway in a climate-friendly direction. In law, our goals, and it requires the government to provide the Storting with regular information on the status and progress of achieving the goal. Since 2017, the government has strengthened Norway's climate targets for 2030 and 2050. We therefore propose to change the climate laws, so that the laws are updated in line with the reinforced targets we have submitted, in line with the Paris agreement. Norway was the third country in the world to report a stronger target. The goal is to reduce emissions by at least 50 pst, up to 55 pst. That's what we're now proposing to legislate. We want to implement the objective in cooperation with the EU, and although the target figure is not the same as the EU target, the level of ambition is about the same. The reason is that we calculate CO2 capture from forest elsewhere than what the EU is doing. In January 2021, the government presented a climate plan to achieve the target. Never before has a government provided such an ambitious climate plan with such concrete policies, where an impact assessment on tons how much future policy will cut into emissions and thus target us. It creates trust – that this is not just a goal you have set, but a goal you should reach. In order to become a low-carbon society, we have to cut our strong forwards, even beyond 2030, so the government's proposal is that we now legislate that we should cut out 90-95 pst. by 2050. Several countries are now strengthening their climate targets. That's good. It increases the chance that we can achieve the 1.5 degree goal. Even if other countries adopt measures of so-called climate neutrality, or net zero, this does not mean that Norway should do the same. It will largely weaken our climate goals, not strengthen them. A net zero measure means that the emission and the recording are zero. That's good, but as Norway has a large CO2 capture from forestry and land use, a net zero target will mean a significant reduction in the ambition level of Norway's 2050 targets, so I want to raw the Storting from supporting the Workers' Party's proposal. In other words, the government's proposal for a 2050 climate change target is more ambitious than a net zero target, and I hope the Storting will adopt the most ambitious option. Climate laws aim to promote openness and public debate on the status, direction and progress towards climate targets. An annual breakdown of the climate work status is requested in this setting. Climate laws already contain such an obligation. Every year since the laws came into force, the government has reported in line with it, and in the Climate Change Communication the government announces that the annual climate legislation reports in the future will do well to implement the climate plan and give an idea of the need to adjust the price.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e865	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e870	I thank the Council of State for the review and would like to start by saying that I am pleased that we have a very broad consensus in the Chamber today on ambitious emissions reductions for 2050 as well. But I want to hear a little more about why the Council of States is so concerned that Norway is also going to do what a large majority of countries are doing now, including the EU and the United States, and what the Secretary-General is asking for, namely to declare a net zero requirement. I would understand the reasoning if it was just saying net zero, but what we from the Workers' Party want and also suggest is that we should set a net zero target at the same time as specifying that the emission cuts, i.e. the reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, should be exactly 90-95 pst., i.e. a net zero target with a specification of which percentage must at least come from emission cuts. I think it's right and important for Norway to do, because it's now a net zero coalition that's being built up, and a very strong desire for companies and countries to gather around it. Why can't you add 90-95 pst. in 2050 also say that Norway is involved in the work of getting to net zero?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e879	That's because if we say the target is net zero, we'll weaken Norway's climate targets by 2050. One will not necessarily weaken others' climate goals by saying that, because they have different starting points than us, for example. lower coverage in the forest, but the representative Barth Eide can't just stop from someone else saying that net zero is ambitious for them, that it's also ambitious for us, because it's not. Norway has another geography. We have a large uptake of forest land, and that's good, but if our goal is to be net zero in 2050, in all natural senses of that word, it means – unless the Workers' Party has a completely separate understanding of the words net zero – that we will cut our emissions by approx. 60 pst, not 90-95 pst. So I hear what Barth Eide says is that we're going to set a measure of net zero, and then we're going to cut it out by 90-95 pst. But then it doesn't mean net zero. Then it's the words that are important, and the words are going to have a different meaning than what is the natural understanding, and that everyone else uses. Why the Workers' Party absolutely wants there to be something that the Storting should adopt, has been harder and harder to understand in this process.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e886	Then I can contribute a little to clarification, because, as I said in my first question, we are attached to the fact that we specify that the emission cuts should be at least 90-95 pst. That's the reduction we have to achieve in terms of emissions. Then we believe that it is also important to recognise that we must also work for increased carbon storage in forests, in nature, in moors, in the sea, and that it is an important part of this investment. If you go into the climate positive, that is, if you bind more than you release, that is a very good news, but we believe that there is a political movement now towards net zero that Norway should be on, and then we should specify from Norway that it happens to us at the same time as we go in for 90–95 pst. This is something that many of the trade unions also want. It has been expressed by several of those who work on this, that Norway can both say what our minimum emission cut by 2050 should be, and at the same time join us in the work of a global net zero. I don't understand why the left is struggling, you almost get the impression that there are other parties that have argued against saying so.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e893	This is because climate laws do not regulate global emissions or emissions targets for the EU or the US emissions target. A regulates the emission target for Norway, and it is for Norway's Workers' Party that proposes a net zero as a target. I have no problem joining net zero as a target where it means a tightening of the climate target, and it does so in many countries, but not in Norway. Then why should one suggest it? That's what I don't understand. If you want to cut the output by 90-95 pst. In 2050 – and that's good, that's what we're going to do – and then you're going to have a net zero, because logically it has to mean that you have to have less forestland uptake than you have to. I found it difficult to understand that the Labour Party would have as a goal in the Norwegian Climate Act. The ambitious goal is to cut 90-95 pst. I'm recording that the Workers' Party is united in it, and then we're on an ambitious level. Why create additional confusion with a large room of interpretation to weaken climate policy, I don't understand that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e900	It is possible that this debate will not bring us so much forward. I stress again that we believe it is right to say that the emission cuts are 90-95 pst. So that's what's going on reducing greenhouse gas emissions. They have to be as directed towards zero as possible. Then we have to have a consciousness of absorption and that we also have to have a policy to address as much as we can, especially through natural processes, possibly industrial in addition, if we succeed. Both parts are important, both parts should be expressed. There is a strong international campaign led by the United Nations and with some of the world's largest economies behind it, which in fact says that all countries should say that we are striving towards a net zero target. For Norway, if it means that we become climate positive, it is a very positive additional news. We have to be clear on the emission targets. We don't have to use carbon capture as an excuse for not cutting, there's the council and I agree, but I think it's strange that Norway is going to talk about the goal being a low-carbon society, when more and more people are talking about going to net zero. I believe that the two things are fully compatible, and I don't quite understand why you're so skeptical.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e913	It's because a net zero target in Norway will not be a contribution to net zero globally. It'll weaken the goal of net zero globally, because Norway has so much CO 2 absorbed, and we'll be happy for that. Norway's contribution to net zero globally must be to cut as much of our emissions as we can, while increasing the recording and at least not making it worse. When we cut out 90-95 pst., it is a significant contribution to net zero globally, but once again I must remind the representative Barth Eide that the Norwegian climate law does not regulate global climate goals. If it did, we had no problem, because then the paint would be so ambitious that the world would complete the 1.5-degree goal without any problem. Now we're talking about Norway, and in Norway, a net zero goal – unless the Labour Party has its own definition of what it means – will seriously weaken the Norwegian climate target. Therefore, a non-voting vote should be cast for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e924	If we can move away from expressions and formalities and move on to practical policies, I could imagine asking the Council of States about the relationship with the EU, because I have to admit that right now I am somewhat uncertain whether we are going on our own or how closely we are linked to the EU in achieving our goals. I have a very specific question to the Council of State, which I hope he can answer: what is the difference between Norway cutting 50 pst. of its emissions and the EU cuts 50 pst. of its emissions and that Norway and the EU together cut 50 pst. of its emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e929	There are some important differences when it comes to working together. Perhaps the most important thing is that we have a common quota market for the quota sector, and as long as we have – and I understand that the Stortinget wants to, including the Progress Party – we need to implement our climate targets in conjunction with the EU, because this is, at least for now, half of our emissions, and they will be part of a joint cooperation by definition. It's simply a reflection of reality, and I think it's good, because the quota market works. The quota market is leading to a significant drop in emissions in Europe. The last figure was probably from 2019, when the emission went down with about 9 pst. in the sector subject to allowances. It's significant. The whole point of the system is that one should cut out the fastest where it is the most profitable, and that businesses should be able to make money and be profitable to invest green and cut emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e934	What the Council of State says now is that there is no difference between Norway cutting 50 pst. of their emissions, instead of cutting 50 pst. together with the EU and their emissions. It would be quite different to operate a company in Norway and have a right to cut 50 pst. in a small economy, in a small nation, in relation to being part of a larger cooperation, which the EU will be, does not such an isolated approach really mean a worse starting point for a Norwegian enterprise than what it would be to be a company established in the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e939	I thought the representative of Halleland strongly argues for both European cooperation, the EEA Agreement and climate cooperation with the EU, and that is good. That is probably also why the government and the Progress Party have some of them that we should have that kind of cooperation, and I think that is one of the most important things that has happened in recent years, that we have entered into a common climate cooperation with the European Union. That being said, it is not that all emissions are regulated in detail by common EU legislation. It is also true that significant parts of Norwegian emissions, almost half of them, are not part of the quota sector. This applies, for example: transport, agriculture and many other parts of Norwegian business. There we must also pursue a climate policy and it must be ambitious. That is, of course, the main objective of the climate plan, too, to put many more measures on the table, specifically targeting the non-quota sector. So I don't think it's any competitive thing for Norway to set ambitious climate targets and implement rapid emissions. On the contrary, I think it's important for us to position ourselves. That is probably also why the business community has largely supported it, despite the fact that the representative is a little disappointed that they have done so, as he stated in his previous article.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e948	I am becoming very uncertain now about where the Council of State is in this, because there must be no doubt that we also want to cooperate with the European Union. We've supported it all the way, and that's what we're burning for. After all, the government is failing to cooperate with the EU here, because the government is choosing not to have the same objectives and results as the EU, which in practice means that Norwegian businesses have tougher demands than EU businesses. That is why the Progress Party will not support the Climate Act and the changes that the government is presenting today because they are breaking with that cooperation with the EU. My question is: why does the government not want to cooperate with the EU, which provides companies in the EU and Norway with a level playing field?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e955	The government absolutely wants close cooperation with the European Union, including in the field of climate, and some of us should, of course, feel that one should be a member of the European Union. We would then have common climate goals with the European Union. But we're not. Norway is an independent party to the Paris Agreement, and as long as Norway is an independent party to the Paris Agreement, we report an independent climate objective under the Paris Agreement. We have. We were among the first to do that. It is not a question of one, as the representative said earlier, being so far ahead and going to lead everyone else. On the contrary, we made it quite close to the deadline. However, there were very many other countries that broke that deadline by half a year, one year or a half years, and there are still many countries that have not updated their targets. It is important at the Glasgow climate summit to ensure that even more people update their targets. That said, it should be said that the EU climate target, which is good, is at last consistent with Norwegian. Decommissioned forest is approx. 52.8 pst. They're going to cut. We need to cut 50-55 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e962	I have a feeling that the Council of State doesn't want to understand and answer the question completely. But if I try to be very clear on the following: If the government had waited until the EU had set its objectives and its legislation related to it, would Norway have delivered the same goal as what we delivered almost a year before the EU did? What will the cost be for the taxpayer with a system that makes Norway choose to deviate from the system that the EU has partly established or wants to establish?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e967	The answer to the question is yes. We would report the same climate target today as we reported nearly six and a half years ago, because we report that after thorough assessments of the following: Can we do this? What is the longest we'll be able to stretch to, realistically speaking? What is technology development like? And yes, we see that we have to do this. We see that today too. So we've reported an ambitious goal, and we would do the same thing today. What the representative really asks – if I should interpret him a little from what he asked me earlier – is: Why can Norway not set a net target for 2030 and subtract from the developments that have been in the forest in Norway since 1990? I guess that's what the representative is asking. The answer to that is that it would have weighed the Norwegian climate target considerably, both what we have now seen, and the previous one. I remind you that it is not such that the EU sets a target for each country in which it has now notified. It is for the EU to gather, both for the forested countries and for the forested countries, and one should be able to manage it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e974	The cord shift is over. The speakers who now have the floor also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e981	This is an important day, and I would like to express my joy at the fact that there is now a very broad consensus on a strengthened Norwegian climate target. I would also like to underline – as it was said, among other things. by the case-rapporteur, Mr August, at the beginning of this debate – the design of the Paris Agreement, it is not possible to reduce the targets, they just have to go up, and the sum of this Norwegian law and our international commitments means that after this decision, Norway has to cut at least 50–55 pst. and may, where appropriate, set only more stringent targets. I'm glad of this. Then the Workers' Party, as the Aukrust representative said, wanted us to have a clear number of 55 pst. and underlined that it concerns the whole economy, i.e. the quota and non-quota sectors. We had a conversation that I don't need to repeat now, that in addition we should say net zero and 90-95 pst. in 2050, but let it not overshadow the important message that this will now apply to all future Norwegian governments. It has the fine side of itself that from now on it is no longer meaningful to have political debates about whether we should try to achieve these objectives – we should, we must. What we get is a healthy and sensible political debate on how to reach them. In the years to come, we will have debates on this is something that the market largely solves best even through the price signals of the state alone – through, for example, the way it works. CO2 tax – or much more active organisation is needed by the state. These are important debates that are going to be dividing lines in Norwegian policy. But it's no longer a relevant position to say that we're not going to achieve these goals, because we're going to adopt that, we're going to have to do that, and that's good. I also want to remind you that no matter what happens to the autumn, those who rule from October to Glasgow from 1 November. It is a couple of weeks after all conditions around the formation of government had to be clarified. It would then be a clear expectation that Norway will come to Glasgow and do what other countries do and will do and prepare for, namely to clarify both what the national targets are and what kind of plans they have to achieve them. There's a great international effort going on right now, and it's important that we're prepared for it. Then I want to say to the posts we have heard from the Progress Party, that I feel that they are a little bit left in a world where it sounds like it pays to postpone emissions. It's a completely different world than the industry and workers in Norwegian industry sees, because I travel around the country and the beach and hear people say on the contrary: strict demands and an active industrial policy that allows them to reach is the way to secure future markets. The markets to which we export, not least the European, are going to become increasingly crunchy, increasingly demanding in terms of carbon footprints, and it is those who are early on in finding solutions to it, who will win the battle for the future markets. Clamping into a fossil economy that is obviously on its way down is doing Norwegian industry and Norwegian workers a great service to bear.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e994	It may be that it's been a while since the party's big crowd has been out in real life, in business. Otherwise, they might have known what everyone else knows, it seems that, in both business and industry, and that they communicate to us, namely, how important it is that a conversion is carried out in Norway, among others. due to Norwegian industry and the competitiveness of Norwegian industry. So the question is, was this all? Was this really all in the debate about the culmination of what has been the government's climate policy in the last four years, or the last eight years really? Are you already done? That's okay, that's okay. But is it because the red-green parties have been given some kind of revelation that the election is not won in this hall? No, it can't be. There are still so many loose proposals and Document 8 proposals that it formally drains out of our ears, so it can't be. There has to be something else that makes them so inactive, that they know they have such an incredibly bad case, that they know that the conflict they are trying to create with the government about the changes in the climate law has gone wrong. People see it through, people reveal it. We heard Mr. Barth Eide's posts now. There was a day of joy all of a sudden. It was a great contrast to the post we heard from the Aukust representative, where it almost sounded like a tragedy. But that's because the Workers' Party has to say such things, because they have no idea how emissions can be cut faster, or how we can cut more emissions. The Socialist Left Party is now talking about cutting 70 pst. by 2030. It is important that they also be able to participate on the MDG’s remittance line. It would have been too bad if SV had forgotten to submit an offer in the last minute as a loose proposal at 0 p.m. 8.30 today morning, and that caused them to lose some climate-loving voters to the party that challenges them inside. However, not one proposal from the Socialist Left made in dealing with the climate plan, of the many hundreds that they presented, would help reduce emissions more quickly or cut more emissions by 2030. There is too much talk in the climate debate, but then there are some parties that are more concerned about trading. Those parties are in government. Those parties have pursued a policy that reduces emissions and has a concrete plan for how to achieve the 2030 targets. Espen Barth Eide can talk about disagreements as much as he likes – the truth is that there is a plan on the table that shows how the 2030 goal is achieved. It's time for the red-greens to start taking over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1008	When we hear the representative of Halleland – outside this hall: comrade Halleland, Klima-Terje – posts here today, it makes me think that if there had been a collapse under the Stone Age, the Advance Party would have been the most zealous figures against going away from the Stone Age. The Stone Age did not end because we lacked stone, but because man found new and better ways to do things. It's the Progress Party against it. Last autumn I traveled around parts of Norwegian business life on the West Coast and on the South. It was the yard industry that built some of the world's leading speedboats within its segment. It was the solar industry in Kristiansand. Their unanimous demands for me as a big business politician, when I asked what we could do to ensure them growth and progress in the future, were: set environmental requirements! Set environmental requirements – that’s the most important thing you can do, because we have the skills, we have the people who can develop environmental technologies. It doesn't want the Progress Party to be in it. Instead, the Progress Party reminds me of the industry in the 1970s, which fought against what was new environmental requirements. Today, the same industry is pleased that these environmental requirements have been met, as this means that parts of Norwegian industry are world leaders in the environmental field and have their products sold in the future. I think the inner wish of the Progress Party is that we should still sell rocks. Then we hear the representative Heggelund talking about that SV did not have proposals that would have cut emissions in Norway faster through the climate notification. Yes, we did. We would have invested more in carbon capture and storage in much more installations. But what is the government's answer? Well, in a few days we'll get it: record-breaking allocation of new oil fields to the oil companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1019	First, the line change between Espen Barth Eide and Sveinung Rotevatn, who was very concerned to say that this was a Norwegian climate law. Of course, everyone agrees, but what we do at home in Norway also gets something to say for what we do in the world. We should have an ambition that others should read what we decide, and what we adopt, we should be involved and promoted in the world. We believe that we would lead the best if we said 90-95 pst. with net zero. Norway wanted to go to the front. The Sveinung Rotevatn should at least stop saying, is that this is weakening Norwegian climate targets, because then he does not read what is written there. We're going to vote for exactly the same climate targets, and then you can't say that it's weakening it. This is simply done in the absence of any other argument. The truth is that the Workers' Party wants to increase Norway's climate targets. Where government parties say they want to cut up to 55 pst, we say "at least 55 pst." There is a considerable difference between what is going to be Norway’s climate target by 2030. Then it is requested that the Workers' Party promote more proposals. Well, today we are discussing the Climate Act and the Law, but the Workers' Party has promoted hundreds of proposals to strengthen Norwegian climate policy. Last time we dealt with the government's climate communication, the Workers' Party promoted more than 200 proposals. The government parties voted against each and every one. It was only in the context of the few proposals in which the Progress Party agreed with the Red-Greens that the government parties agreed. Otherwise, government parties chose to ignore every proposal that came from environmental movement, trade, business and opposition. That's why it's completely wrong when we hear people from the government parties talking about everything being in charge: take it easy! We have control. Fortunately, not many people are biting that argument. Fortunately, it's not like that, because the world is heading towards catastrophic climate change, and there's no need to hit their breasts in Norway and say, "Had everyone just done like us, all of this wouldn't have been a problem." We see that Norway probably did not achieve its climate targets for 2020. We haven't taken the big steps we were going to take in business policy. We have implemented major cuts in aid for environmental work, and we do not have our own national climate target for the first time. The working party says that the climate targets will apply to the entire Norwegian economy, not only to the non-quota sector, but also to the government opening up to have extensive quota purchases. No one can say for sure what is going to be Norway’s 2030 climate change target. It's just the opposition that will have clear targets for it. Finally, the committee leader was in on what he thought was a red-green spagat. Well, by itself you know others. Then I wonder what he meant, and what he heard from the Advancement Party. That's absolutely true, what Trine Skei Grande said in the election campaign, before she joined the government with the Advance Party. Then she said that in climate policy is not the Progress Party on another planet – they're in another universe. What was a little strange was that the conclusion to that argument was that she herself went into government with them. We believe that there is now a need for a new majority in this Chamber to pursue a different climate policy with a more active state, and that will not continue the strategy of having the market sorted out, because it has not been possible to vote through almost 30 years of climate history. That is why we need a more active policy, and we can do that after 13 September.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1040	If I'm allowed, Klima-Terje will answer a couple of my comrades in the hall. Stefan talked about business – we'd like to hear about business when right-wing representatives talk about business. I have been there for 25 years, so I know where I come from – and there the representative will also try from the autumn of. The Progress Party supports conversion. I don't think anyone in this room is in doubt that we are facing changes and a new everyday life. But then that's the price we're going to pay for that conversion, and how we can best set ourselves up to create the framework conditions that business needs to compete with them out there. You don't have to go beyond the CO 2 tax, which we would take back and give to our smaller industrial companies that were out of the quota sector, for them we would protect. They would avoid major international competition with the large multinational groups. This led us to charge them twice as high as the international groups. That's the consequence that we don't see what our policy can lead to. We're going to build a law for the future, and then we can't always use history – but in this case we should use history to make sure that we can provide a level playing field for our business. When SV talks about business, we have to listen. One thing is that SV believes that the Advance Party would not leave the Stone Age – you might think so – but SV does what they can to get back there. The future will not be adopted – we will create it. So SV is only a prohibition party. Petroleum industry is exactly the industry that, with its knowledge and experience, is going to bring us into that transition, into the new industries. We're talking about carbon capture and storage, and we're talking about hydrogen, marine windmills and marine farms. It is the competence of the maritime and petroleum industries that gives us the opportunity to cope with that transition.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1054	The President would also encourage you not to use first names on each other. So even if you're engaged, you should try to avoid it. The representative Stefan Heggelund has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1061	It's just that we're so good friends in this committee. I am very pleased that I am going back and creating values in business, which Terje Halleland and others can sit and scald and choose with when they print out their more or less well-worded notes in the next period. Lars Haltbrecken came up with a 2005 rhetorical note and took the stone age example. It's just to congratulate it, but it might be time to update their notes, they're getting worn out. What we need are concrete measures. Finally, there were so many factual errors in the posts of the Aukrus representative, and you can't go through all of them, but it's actually so that of the hundreds of proposals that the Workers' Party had in connection with the climate plan, none of them would help to cut emissions faster or more quickly. That's the truth. That's the facts. But we have a climate plan that reaches the climate targets.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1070	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1075	We do not have to go to the Stone Age to find examples of what the Progress Party risks for Norwegian industry in the future. We can go to Kodak, the company that for many years gave us what is called Kodak moments – family pictures up through. It is said that the company discovered the digital revolution too late and that the film roll in the cameras was going away. That's not the whole truth, because one of the employees in Kodak was actually the first to invent the digital camera. But the management wanted to bet on the film roll, because that's what you would have done well. There you will also find the Progress Party. They want to take us further into the climate crisis with what created it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1080	Only a few short words in the end about the climate target we are actually about to adopt, which is very important, easy to cut 50-55 pst. by our release towards 2030. I understand that someone would like to discuss who meant what, and who could have the good slogans from 2005, etc., I am not innocent when it comes to participating in such debates myself, but I would still like to say with some seriousness at the end of the debate that these are demanding goals to achieve. This is a tough job, and the treatment of the climate plan just showed it. There we show how we get into goals, but it's hardly a suggestion in the plan that doesn't have its clear political opponents in different parties. There was hardly a suggestion that no one suggested weakening during the process. We have committed ourselves to a high level of escalating CO 2 tax, which will contribute with the largest cuts. Nobody suggested a higher CO 2 tax in that debate. On the other hand, a number of exceptions were proposed. was granted an exemption for the largest emission source in the non-quota sector, namely waste incineration. Recording can talk a lot about, but it requires an actual recording of CO 2, and that means one has to leave some forest standing. That means that some ants and wetlands must be left alone. It's not always the line that has been in the debates we've had in the last few weeks, to put it mildly. The projections are based on the fact that we're going to continue with electric car benefits - most of the parts here have now entered to weaken in the next period. I have not intentionally named an individual part, because it is not the aim of this article. The aim of the article, on the other hand, is to stress that if we're going to be able to achieve this, we actually have to do everything we've said in the climate plan, and maybe more. It's a tough job. I don't think it's a negative job for Norway, for conversion, for business, I think it's important to do it, but it's pretty strong political interests, different special interests that each on its front will be opposed and think that exactly they should be treated in a special way and not like everyone else. So it has been in this period, the requirements will come in the next period, and when the Storting now joins in these goals of cutting 50-55 pst., I really hope that the bulk of the population also thinks so and intends to reach them. We should, because we're part of a global community, a part of a Paris Agreement that has meant that everyone is doing as much as they can to cut out. I mean the level that we're now applying, is right. It's ambitious, it's going to be demanding, but it's quite possible to do it. But then it's important that one across party boundaries and regardless of who is in government for the years to come, is determined by the decision one has made, steps up the CO 2 tax level, ensures forest and other land absorption, and in that way shows that a mine serious and not just seen goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1105	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 21st Last@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1122	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1129	I want to start by thanking the Committee for a good cooperation. We have had a good dialogue all the way, and we have had a joint consultation on both issues and received a number of input from different actors. The Committee supports the Government's proposals in the Communication, but the opposition has also seen weaknesses and made its own comments and additional proposals. The world faces two major challenges: the natural crisis and the climate crisis. Both crises are of great importance to the marine environment. The big challenge is that the oceans get warmer, more acidic and more polluted, and they lose oxygen. In addition, they lose areas of marine life at record speed. The diversity of nature is at the core of our whole basis of life. Loss of nature has great consequences. A national target today is to maintain a representative sample of Norwegian nature for future generations, but there are no numerical targets. The notification includes actions in all four of our seas and indicates that they are largely in good condition. The environmental challenges are particularly related to coastal zones in the North Sea and Skagerrak that are characterised by human activity. The oslof soil has major challenges, and therefore an action plan is specifically drawn up for this area with concrete measures in both the short and long term. In Norway, we have gradually developed tools and put the centre stage for further work on marine protection. In 2001, a sample was set up that categorized 36 different areas as relevant for marine protection. Børgin in Trondheimsfjorden is one of the 36 areas designated as candidates for a marine protection area. In this context, it is important to clarify that it does not in itself mean that the area is protected for all activity, but that the activity needs to be adapted to the purpose of protection. The protective provision ensures that the activity already in the area can be continued. Here, as in all other areas, it is important that both local and national authorities cooperate, and close dialogue between the various actors involved is necessary. Here we've got a lot of input from different areas. It's not like the Storting protects an area. That's what the King of the Council of States does. The size should ensure that Norway ensures all the valuable marine natural areas in a comprehensive perspective, that we do not degrade the habitats of the marine species, and that the fish has good and rich habitats, so that we can continue to reap from the surplus while preserving biodiversity. I bring this up with the proposals Work Party is part of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1146	The representative Else-May Norderhus has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1151	Good management of our marine and coastal resources is crucial to ensure that future generations can embrace our natural resources in the same way that we have done. There has been an increasing awareness in the field in recent years, and the plan we are presenting today is a continuation of the work that has been done over several decades. Taking care of important areas of marine nature is a good way of getting involved in the work, where Norway has seen itself in the leadership through the international agreements of Prime Minister Erna Solberg and Norway. We also need to ensure that a representative selection of marine nature is represented for future generations. In this work, it is essential that we ensure the width of marine nature. On the basis of the work on marine protection plans started in 2004, a work to be carried out on the basis of guidelines set out today for the management of marine protection plans. Because protection can be perceived as an intervention in local self-government and self-government, good involvement of sectoral government powers – such as county councils, municipalities and other local interests – is part of this work. The Committee, through its management of the plan, has also emphasised this key point, as it is important to get good understanding and acceptance from local authorities of the processes and actions undertaken. It is then natural to go into the second part of the case, that is, the Central Party proposal to remove Børgin from the ongoing protective planning processes. The child is in the process and is now at the directorate before creating a setting for the department. It is worth noting that it is not just Børgin who is currently going through an extra round in the directorate after the department's involvement and pressure from the municipalities. For example, it also does Crossfjorden and Outer Hardangerfjord. We have noted the concerns of the municipalities in these cases, which are mainly about the future development of industry and the concern that protection measures should put an end to them. The activity currently taking place can be continued in line with the guidelines. The administrative powers will grant exemptions if the protection values are not significantly affected by the measures in question. Nevertheless, this is probably where the municipalities are concerned, and we must seek to find good clarifications that will clarify the guidelines for this as much as possible. Here the Environment Directorate will look at the necessary clarifications with the municipalities. It is not natural to interrupt the process that has now been initiated, and which is promised to give the municipalities a good opportunity to make their contributions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1164	Norway has a fantastic nature, both at mountain and at sea, and not least we have a beautiful coastal nature. At the latest this weekend I cost myself in a boat in the middle of a protected landscape area in the archipelago outside the island of Hidra in the South. Fortunately, it did not protect any restrictions on my use of the site. I could fish. We could go ashore, and we could use the area in the usual way. That's good, and it's protection through use. Unfortunately, this does not apply to all uses in the same area. I could use it as an example. In the same area there has been a big discussion about whether you can have a storage facility for live cod. So you think that no, that's one too big intervention. Although the municipality wishes to do so locally, it is the protected area that sets the limits, and it is the State administrator that sets the limits. I brought that example to show how high protection status does not affect a person's use of an area, but can put great restrictions on someone else's use of the area. As long as it's lived in Norway, we've used the coast, put our footprints on nature. It is not possible to protect an area for all human activity, nor does it want the Progress Party. It is important to preserve and preserve selected natural values, and in some cases there must be restrictions on use. It is all right, and it also accepts the Progress Party. But we do not want protection for the sake of protection. In those cases where it is proposed to protect or change a protective status to a higher category, there must be good local processes where the municipality itself wants protection. The propulsion party does not want to protect areas where it is not locally accepted. That is why we are promoting a proposal together with the Workers' Party, which says: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that municipalities and business operators are well involved in all the protection processes mentioned in the Report. St. 29 [[2020-2021]] It is also important that the Stortinget, this elected assembly, be involved in future protection. That is why we have a loose proposal on it. When it comes to the representative proposal 182 S, we believe that it is unfortunate that the area is placed under a marine protection plan, and we therefore want to end the state's work on marine protection of the fjord arm Børgin in Trondheimsfjorden. Finally, I would like to address the proposals of which the Progress Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1182	The representative Gisle Meininger Saudland has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1187	It is not a small matter we are dealing with today. The adoption of the government’s marine protection plan today will have a major impact on much of the activity of many coastal communities. It seems to me that the government has only thought of a number in terms of protection in this process. From the centre party it is not how many percentages of the sea are being protected, which is the most important, but that we manage the populations and marine ecosystems in a good way. This plan involves major interventions in local self-determination over marine natural resources. The Party agrees that natural diversity and conservation values should be properly addressed and taken into account so that marine natural resources can be well managed in the future. But I would also like to stress the need for local involvement in these processes – and they have probably been more or less completely absent in this process. The conservation and protection of the marine environment must be knowledge-based, and the conservation objective must be balanced against sustainable use. A combination of use and protection is possible for most areas with current protection values. The centre party considers that protection is best protected through active use — and marine protection could have negative consequences for the development of community and business throughout this country. Many important economic areas are being affected by this plan and there will be significant impacts on their society. The introduction of a marine protection plan along large areas of the trombone layer would mean the removal by the State of a very large area with a high potential for food production. This is not at all related to the desire to develop, grow and value the sea. For Trøndelag, this means that more or less the entire municipality is blocked for activity in the future – and it is serious. Today, major investments in the aquaculture industry are being made to develop a sustainable industry in a number of these areas – namely Andfjorden in Nordland and Troms, Lopenhagen in Finnmark, Oslofjorden and Børgin in Trøndelag. Business, municipalities and county councils have been very sceptical about the way the government has implemented this plan, and they feel overwhelmed by the government in this matter. There is no doubt that this will place considerable restrictions on activity across our coast. I find that very regrettable to all those economic operators and the municipalities that are affected. With that, I would like to raise the proposal of the centre party and ask the representatives to be aware of the loose proposal that the centre party has today put forward in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1198	The representative Sandra Borch has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1203	The sea gives us an amazing nature, an amazing species wealth and an incredible amount of food on the table. The sea has done so at all times for the Norwegian population. Taking care of our seas is crucial to our well-being in the years to come. In Norway, we have been good at protecting rock smokes in mountain homes. We've been good at setting up national parks high to mountains. We've been worse off taking care of the species-rich areas in the lowlands and out in the sea. With a Marine Protection Plan, we hope that we will get better at it in the years to come. But we will also extend the Marine Protection Plan and extend the scope of the Nature Diversity Act beyond the limits that have been drawn today, in order to take care of these amazing natural resources and to reap from them for many years to come. We also have good experience setting up conservation areas along the Norwegian coast to increase the population of, among others. lobster. Outside Arendal a few years ago, an area of lobster fishing was saved. The result has been an increase in lobster population and, in the long term, opportunities for more fishing for lobster. We cannot discuss our marine areas and their management without getting into the government's abuse of our fjords. A few years ago, the government of Nordic Mining and Nussir authorized the dumping of huge amounts of mining waste in Fördefjorden and Repparfjorden. This is a dumping that most of the world else has gone away, because it hurts life in the sea. Therefore, we hope that the complaints that are being dealt with now in the departments and the government can lead to the government turning around in these matters. In conclusion, I would just like to say that I am pleased to hear from the High Representative, Eskeland, that the protection processes, including Børgin, are continuing. I'm addressing the suggestions that SV is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1214	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1220	It's important to take a little bit of the story with us when we're talking about the management of marine areas. Water and sea are life-giving to us and central to human survival. I am pleased that the Left has participated in government cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Right over several periods. The management plan for our marine areas came under such cooperation. Marine Protection Plan came in 2004, and we are implementing some of those areas. Nine new areas of protection were adopted in 2020. It is also part of the great, long-term effort to have good management plans and strategies for this. Looking at Oslofjorden and Trondheimsfjorden, where there is a large population growth, there have been significant discharges from water and sewerage, i.e. from the sewer side, and agriculture affects. When the cod disappears from the Oslofjord, the food supply disappears. Then it is not possible to do business, and that is also one of the debates we are in. The human impact is significant in our marine areas. Plastics and waste accumulate on the seabed and make it difficult for species to survive. Much of this comes from areas that are not necessarily our own land. It's moving in the oceans. We're in the middle of a temperature increase that affects the oceans, and life in the ocean is changing. Acidification is also a major global challenge. This is the environment we're going to deal with, in the middle of this situation. Therefore, long-term management is incredibly important. And then I'm kind of startled by the short-term perspective that the Center Party has, that it goes beyond the business interests. Yes, it can immediately do so, but the precautionary principle is important, and it's not necessarily that it should be a protection forever and ever. For a period of time, it may be important to protect something precisely in order to ensure the possibility of pursuing business in future generations. It's not just now that we're going to reap the values. We have to manage them for a long time. The very specific discussions we are discussing about the areas of protection are important. It is important to have principles and plans for the protection work that we have to do in some parts of our marine areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1233	This is a message that Stortinget itself has asked for, but I think it was good that Stortinget asked for it, because this is a useful review and a useful update. Many of the solutions to tomorrow's challenges lie in the sea. Increasing numbers of people need food, energy and medicine, and marine resources are crucial to solve a range of our global challenges. At the same time, the use of the seas always sets out the requirements for sustainable use and for maintaining the ecosystem. With this big message, the government proposes a plan for how we will work to preserve important marine nature areas in the years to come. Within a holistic administration, protection is a central tool, but not the only one. In 2020, last year, we created nine new marine areas. With 16 of the total 36 areas in the 2004 Marine Protection Plan, there were protections. The message determines that we are going to continue working with the areas that have already been identified. We also need to complement them with more areas and link them to the processes of marine management plans. As part of that, we will see if we will also protect areas in the future because they contribute to carbon storage. The government in the message states that the work will be done in close interaction with the coastal communities and others who have an interest in the work. Today there is no excuse for creating marine protection areas outside of 12 nautical miles. There are significant natural values in areas outside it, such as the peculiar and rare natural values of the deep sea. So the government will review whether and how today's legislation can be improved. Conservation is more than protection. For example, fisheries legislation measures are also important conservation measures. The government announced a more systematic approach to the conservation of important marine nature areas through marine protected areas and other effective land-based measures. This will provide us with a basis for further work while improving international reporting. At the same time as this message, Stortinget deals with a proposal for a representative to stop the Børgin protection process in Trøndelag. Børgin is an area where it has our great local involvement both for and against protection. I take the local recordings very seriously, and therefore we have chosen to spend time on this matter. Within a few days, I expect an additional report from the Environment Directorate on issues that the municipalities themselves have wanted us to look at. I think that the protection process should continue and would stress that local recording is a very important part of the process that is not finished. Finally, I am pleased that there seems to be agreement on the main points in how we will continue to work on preserving important areas of marine nature, and I look forward to further discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1250	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1255	In the big news, the government shows that it will launch its own practice of reporting on our contribution to meeting the national protection targets — and that is very good. Today there is no percentage point in Norway for protection. The real protection today is 4,5 pst. Then you have to conclude international agreements and commit to 30 pst. protection — both to land and to water, as the government has now presented in our own time. Then it might be interesting to know how to put a strategy to achieve that goal, because I think a lot of people think that's an ambitious goal. When we see how difficult it is with the 36 protection areas that are currently being worked on, it is clear that it will be a demanding job to achieve those objectives. How is the government going to solve this?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1260	There is just one of the things we have notified in the message that we want to work with in the future. So it's supposed to say that there's not yet agreed to new international goals, but there's going to be an important theme at the natural summit that's going to be in the autumn, as planned in Kunming in October. Norway has joined the High Level Coalition to set a target of 30 pst. sea areas shall be protected or protected globally. Then it is important – and I stress that – that we talk about protection, but we also talk about other protective measures, and the most stringent form of protection in Norway is cross-sectoral. It's true that it covers a small part of our marine areas, but it's also a larger part of our areas that have different protective measures, such as: important fisheries regulation, which prevents us from destroying important deep-sea corals. Just coordinating, systematising and working properly with this in the future, both in terms of ourselves and our own policies, but also in terms of international reporting, is an important theme of the message and will not least be important to conclude on which we hope to achieve new global goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1265	I guess I didn't quite understand how the way forward should be, so it's nice if the Council of State can be even clearer on how to plan for this in the government. Spending time is one thing, and it's good and good, but it also has to be a plan that actually brings with it the species concerned in Børgin, Skagerrak, Lopenhagen, Outer Hardangerfjord, the Grip Sea, etc. There are many challenges here. What can the Council of State say that can be reassuring to those who are already standing up in the situation we have, and how are we going to be able to motivate and bring other areas into such a plan? The next thing I want to ask is: how are we going to commit ourselves equally to the countries that enter into the international agreement in the future in relation to the registration of protection, so that protection actually becomes real, and that the percentages can be followed up so that all countries do so in the same way?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1272	Yes, the last thing becomes very important, because today there is an area in the world that formally has a protection, but where it is really almost free. And there are areas in the world where there is use, but where there is really very strict protection. In many parts of the Norwegian Sea area, this is the case, for example: Then I understand that the representative does not see my answer as very clear. That's simply because we're not done with that process yet. We write in the message that we will work on this for years to come in the light of what is, hopefully, agreed in China for the autumn. It will be a process that will have to go, which will include many, and where, of course, I also have a good dialogue with the Storting. So the answer is that we're doing this to look at different questions, including, for example, the 12-mile limit, which I also mentioned in my post. In the case of local anchoring, it is important to stress that many marine protection areas are created with large local support and initiatives. Some have great local resistance, but then one becomes one after another when a person becomes comfortable with what the protection actually means. Other places are the adjacent resistance. But it's like that in protective matters, and it has to stick to it as authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1281	The council said in its contribution that the Storting had asked for this message, and that it was good. I agree, because I think it is right that the Storting should be involved in a process like this. I thought I would ask a question about the further process, because I want to hear the Council of State's assessment of how he will ensure that future protection processes have democratic opening up, and how he will involve the Storting in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1288	At least I thought this was a good start. Now we've written a thorough big message about these issues, it's given a thorough committee setting, and it's also in all materially broad outline of the broad lines of policy, as I understand it. I'm sure for years to come we'll have a lot of discussions in this room about the work on marine protection. That's what I think is good, but I also think it's just they override the lines, the legal basis, the measure, one should discuss in the Stortinget. Each individual case of protection and every individual protection decision, whether on land or at sea, makes one by regulation, signed by the King of the Council of State. This government has so far protected well over 600 areas on land, and that is good. But I do not believe that it is either appropriate or desirable that the Storting should make formal decisions in all protective cases throughout Norway. The important thing is the big superior lines, and there the Storting has a very central role to play.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1295	I stand here with a number of statements from a number of municipalities: Ørland, Senja, Andøy, Loppa, Troms and Finnmark County. Throughout all of them, they feel that they are not well enough included in this process. I would like to ask the Council of State: does he believe that the municipalities have been properly protected in this protection process?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1300	This isn't a protection process, it's a big message that's how we're going to work on protecting and protecting our oceans in the years to come. The individual protection process in each area is conducted by a wide and deep involvement of both municipalities and other stakeholders in each case, and it takes many years. Some places bring it forward, with cheers and cake and great commitment locally, some places there is resistance and uncertainty. Then we like to go rounds, and that applies, among other things. what the Centre Party proposes to stop today, namely the Børgin protection process. There is a sample of a process where there is a controversial local and local disagreement. That's one of several reasons why we chose to do more rounds on it. I have also requested additional evidence from the Directorate for the Environment. That there should be no listening to local forces in such processes, I find it hard to understand, because these are years of processes with thorough involvement, so it is simply not true.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1308	It's going to be wrong to say that this is not a protection process, because it is. There are large areas affected in a number of municipalities, and they can have a significant impact on industry, especially on the aquaculture industry, but also on the fishing industry. We have seen statements from the Municipality of Loppa now, which are concerned about the activity of their fisheries. Can the Council confirm that this will have implications for future activity?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1315	The process around Lopenhagen is currently under assessment in the Ministry of Climate and Environment, and I have already said that we are going to have closer dialogue with the relevant municipalities in this matter. It covers a large area, with approx. Half of the municipalities are positive, while there is resistance to other places. So it's a matter we have to go a few rounds on, and then we'll see how the conclusion ends. The reason why I say this isn't a protection process is that it's not the only area in Norway that is protected by this big message or by decisions that are being made here today. There are decisions that one makes through the thorough involvement of local representatives, among others, and that one does not just do over the table in the Storting, but by means of regulatory decisions at the King of State Council. When it comes to this with nutrition, it is that when we create marine protection, it usually gives a significant space for nutrition, for example. fisheries. What it does not provide is different activities that break with the purpose of protection, but then it depends on what is the purpose of protection in each area, for example. is bottom or other things.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1324	In 2019, I asked the Minister for Climate and Environment, Ola Elvestuen, about the protection of Skarnsundet and Børgin. At the time, the Council of State wrote, among other things: to me: ‘The Ministry of Climate and Environment has continued to submit the protection proposals for Børgin and Skarnsundet for treatment. The process of these protection proposals was suspended in 2017 and has therefore taken longer than usual.’ I am therefore a little surprised when the Council of State today says that there is no protection proposal. I hope he can confirm that it still is, as his predecessor said. I also hope that the Council of States can be as clear as the Right Representative in confirming that the protection process for Børgin – for Skarnsundet is already protected – is continuing in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1334	Yes, I can confirm that Skarnsundet is protected. It was protected last year, when we protected nine new marine protected areas, which was then more than a doubling of the number of marine protected areas in Norway. I'm glad we got it. There were many important, valuable natural areas that, with it, received protection from activity that could go across the protective base. I can also confirm that the process around Børgin has not been stopped, and he will not be stopped here today, unless the proposal from the Center Party gets multiples. I think it's wise, because when we choose to go several rounds and wait for more facts from the Environment Directorate and good local involvement, I don't think it's generally wise for the Storting to short-circuit such processes, either for the locals or for the big commitment that's at stake. But we haven't concluded, and the conclusion doesn't come today either. Today we are dealing with a big message.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1341	I am equally happy with the Council of State that the proposal of the Central Party to stop the protection process with Børgin does not get a majority today, and that the protection process goes on. I wish the Council of State were a little clearer that we are also talking about a protection process there, as his predecessor Ola Elvesuen was in his reply to me two years ago. My question is, since this process continues, does the Council of State have any opinion as to when we can look forward to the protection of Børgin, similar to what we got for Skarnsundet last year?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1348	I don't intend to suggest protecting Børgin until we have all the facts on the table, until we have the reports we're going to have, in place, and before we're done with what's of processes and local involvement. But when all such processes are finished, a time comes to conclude. That time will come one day, but I'm not going to tell you what day it is, because I just don't know that yet. But I want to say that there's a number of important areas around the country now that are in different protection processes, and in some cases one will certainly conclude that here it will be protected, and in some cases one may not. We haven't pre-concluded when we start such processes, but pointed out a number of areas of great value, and then it's important that we, as responsible politicians, assess how we can secure the values of future generations. Based on some of the articles here, it sounds like when a marine protection is implemented, activity in the area is no longer allowed. That's not true. But it's important to prevent e.g. hazardous emissions or activity that will destroy and reduce important natural values. One should be able to be a few of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1355	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1362	Discussions on a marine protection plan have lasted over several years and, like other types of protection in Norway, the overall thesis has been that protection should be based on volunteering. It has been the sound of forest protection until the government suddenly decided that it would have 10 pst. protection, and the percentage has become more important than voluntary. It has also been the main concern of other types of protection. Then it's a terrible shame that one is not willing to take into account just questions about volunteering in as central areas as, among other things. Børgin in Trondheimsfjorden. There has been massive local resistance here, and there have not been any good processes between local administration and the Environment Directorate – on the contrary, I think they have been incredibly overrun in the dialogue with the Directorate. Then it is incredibly disappointing that both the Labour Party and the Right choose not to listen to their people locally, neither in Steinkjer nor in India, who have been quite clear that they do not want this protection. What government parties are doing today is doing a pronounced form of double communication. At one moment they say that the protection process goes on, at the next moment they say that no protection proposals have been submitted. They're trying to double-communize and pretend it's not going to be a protection, while the protection process goes on. The reality is that one with the big message you are dealing with today gives a clear signal that the protection process can move forward, and one leaves a large part of the process to the sector authorities, in this case the Environment Directorate. It does not help to allow the possible management of a protected area to be treated locally; it is in a way after a protected area has been protected that this will be the case. In the meantime, it's pretty much up to the directorate. This means that one retains local uncertainty, one preserves the uncertainty of local communities and of all the private landowners affected by this area located in the middle of the culture landscape between Indero and Steinkjer. One correctly states that all possible rules for action or exemption should be a matter for the Environment Directorate, and one more – as a straw – indicates that the dialogue with the Environment Directorate should be good and that it should continue. But then one of the major appeals locally is that the dialogue with the Environment Directorate has not been good at all. It has been extremely bad, and they have felt overwhelmed. There has been a lack of dialogue, and what government parties are doing today is that they both accept that the protection process continues, and that they leave very much of what is going to happen in the future, to a directorate that communities do not trust. It is sad to see that one is not more willing to take account of the local interests, and both the Right and the Workers' Party have a great responsibility in that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1371	The UN and international organisations are now contributing to coordinated research — research-based knowledge on earth’s health. The preparations for a new nature agreement are important in order for us to be able to conclude a new nature agreement in Kunming in China for the autumn. Through these preparations, it was found that Norway has shown the cards and thought that we should have ambitions of 30 p.m. protection, both by land and by water – it is very ambitious. Today we have 4.5 pst. protection in marine areas, and Norway does not currently have an exact measure of protection. The Labour Party believes that ambitious goals are good, but we also believe that they must be real. We believe that a knowledge-based approach is important, and we believe that clear and predictable driving rules need to be established, both in SVO areas and in protected areas, as NHO and Norwegian oil and gas also support in the consultation. This means that it has to be clear how different nutritional actors can have activity, and when they can have it. We believe that there should be a supervision in place to ensure that these driving rules are also followed. With regard to the protection processes, we have to be able to say, after so many enquiries, that the government needs to be more able to ensure that the municipalities and business operators are well involved throughout the process. Information on the consequences of a protection is also important: Will it relate to existing activity, and in what way, or will it relate only to new activity? These questions are very important for both the Outer Hardangerfjord, the Lopenhagen, the Skagerrak and the Børgin area, as we can see. The working party is also concerned that if ambitious protection is adopted in the nature agreements, then there must be realistic objectives and there must be clear guidelines on how to register these protections in different countries. It will also be important for the government to return to Stortinget shortly after the start of the harvest in order to clarify how Stortinget looks at the kind of objectives that are adopted in the case. The Labour Party has raised the challenge we have faced in the past, including: in 2009. It is a matter of having a number of special agreements and laws that regulate the use of natural resources in the various sectors, such as oil and gas, maritime traffic, sea wind, fisheries, marine minerals, farming and harvesting of other species. The Nature Diversity Act currently applies to maritime regulation up to 12 nautical miles, while the Marine Resource Act applies to the entire economic zone, which is up to 200 nautical miles. We believe that there is a need for coordinated and comprehensive legislation, and we want to show that we are voting against the solution of the proposals – both that of the Centre Party and that of the Progress Party – and that we are referring to our own proposal that the government in the autumn should come back to what is to be the protection objectives of international agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1382	A few weeks ago, I had the pleasure of visiting the fishermen at Utgårdskilen on Vesterøy in Hyler. It is the largest fishing port east of Lindesnes. They operate in Oslofjord/Skagerrak, in an area we all know is among the most vulnerable to both natural disasters and climate change. The fishermen in Utgårdskilen saw this. They were very concerned with sustainable management. I learned a lot from that visit, about both how they themselves have developed voluntary protection solutions where they vary where they fish, how they have been involved in developing completely leading advanced technologies for new forms of trawls that protect the bottom much better and through so-called so-called Solserists ensure the separation of juveniles, and how in many ways they had now found technologies for fishing – in this case not least shrimp fishing – that are considerably more gentle. They said with great reluctance that no one was more concerned with taking care of the fjord than they were, no one was more concerned with making sure that there was value creation in the future as well. Future good management is money in the bank, as the fishermen there said. What they also said was that they felt that the involvement of the kind of competence that is most densely tested was too poor. I think that one of the most important things we say in this case here is that when we just have to get even better at sea, in our seas, we have to get comprehensive, cross-sectoral and knowledge-based models for that cooperation. Nothing is more important than listening to those who are affected and those who live by and by the sea, such as the fishermen in Utgårdskiln. I was very optimistic and positive about that visit. It was also where many people were concerned that in the future they have to be involved in developing, for example. new progress solutions to move towards a more fossil-free future, but they wanted a close partnership with public authorities to enable, in order to develop the technology, to ensure that there is an infrastructure that makes this possible. All of this is local examples of our overall message: we need to get a much better involvement of those who are most affected if we are to make this work in such a way that we get a broad response to the need for an even more sustainable management of our seas.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1395	I'll continue with the very same theme that Barth Eide's representative was on. It is quite right that the Storting should not adopt the individual areas, but we have a responsibility for the processes that the Storting wants them to be. As the Council of State said, one depends on close cooperation with the coastal communities; it is absolutely essential to get the local anchoring, to put local knowledge into practice. Most of these coastal communities live off the sea and depend entirely on having sustainable seas, clean seas, just to harvest them. So my experience is that most people are very positive about these security plans, but they lack better involvement locally. I come from Hordaland, and there are three areas proposed as marine protected areas. Lurefjord: It has been adopted, there is no conflict, but it seems that in those areas where there are major business interests, there are greater conflicts and greater challenges in finding good solutions. Crossfjorden and Outer Hardangerfjord are examples of that. At the hearing, it was the rapporteur from Austevoll who raised this point. He said that since 2014, they have been involved in processes, where very much has been oral, and little has been formalized. Then it is very difficult for a municipality to present it to the local government to see what is actually being adopted. He also missed the follow-up to the investigation instruction, to which the State is obliged, and what an impact assessment means as regards – in particular – aquaculture, which is important for Austevoll. The whole community that lives by the sea. That's what goes on with a lot of these coastal communities, that they need the predictability to have living small coastal communities to survive. They are not always so small – they are often large too, at least in terms of value creation. Lopenhagen: I have also heard about this when we were travelling in Finnmark, my colleague Ingalill Olsen has been interpellating here in Stortinget with questions to the former climate minister, and I have asked oral questions to the former climate minister, but we were not reassured by the answers we received. I lifted Austevoll, too. It is absolutely essential that what is going on in the future has local government and follow the guidelines to be adopted by the State to ensure good processes locally, and not least that they have local knowledge. Finally, I know that the Lopenhagen includes several municipalities, and it probably also does several of these areas of protection. What they are responding to, including there, is that it is the State Manager who is to continue the process of applying for derogations from the provisions. Why not use inter-municipal cooperation there? I think at least the Left is particularly concerned with local democracy and administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1407	In this debate I think it has been said very sensible from the government parties. I also think we can reassure the representative Arnstad that we are listening both to municipalities and to business. We also demand good processes. We know that the department does, too. So, of course, trust in government is something we all depend on. That the Center Party then wants to prejudge in a way, it has to be on their account. Or are the future possible negotiations they fear? That's the question. I see that a few paragraphs have come in from the next committee, which is also going to deal with its issues today, the Labour and Social Committee. It's a committee I've been in for the last time. This is the last post I'm going to have on the Stortings pulpit ever. Then I would like to say that it has been incredibly rewarding to sit on the Stortinget for eight years, and first cooperate with several of them from the Labour and Social Committee who are in the Chamber here today. If someone had told me when I was a member of the Young Right that I was going to be a friend of Lundtegen, I would not have believed that. That I also got such a good relationship with Rigmor Aasrud, who annoyed myself green over me in some school debates in Uppland a few years ago, and Lise Christoffersen – I appreciate that infinitely. I would also like to say the same to the members of the committee I am sitting on today. We've had incredible fun together over the four years, even though we've been smoking in disagreement about a lot. I think I've been mad at every member of the committee, and they've been mad at me too, just so that's said, but it hasn't got anything to say for the personal relationship. I just want to stress how much I like absolutely everyone sitting in, sitting in the Energy and Environment Committee, and thank you for many funny debates – many annoying debates, but most of all fun debates – and good cooperation over the years we've had. Thank you so much!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1418	Perhaps the representative Heggelund should have got the last word there, but I had to make some comments. I can confirm that I have also been angry with the representative Heggelund many times. I'm going to miss the representative in the hall, because he's always up, but he's also nice to listen to and interesting to discuss with. Then I want to say to some of the things that have emerged in the debate here, that in the case of marine protected areas, there are very different areas. It's not right that we're just talking about coastal areas. In the fjord to which I am attached, Trondheimsfjorden, there is protection right into the cultural landscape, which is actively used by communities and industries. There is already a lot of protection inside Trondheimsfjorden – Tautra, Rissa, Skarnsundet, and now it's about Ørland and Børgin. You have to take into account that here are the very different areas that we're talking about. When several representatives here say that they want to take better account of local processes and local democracy, it should also mean that one in some cases dared to say that the local process has not been good enough, the dialogue with the directorate has not been good enough, and the resistance locally is so massive that we choose not to go further with this protection process. That's exactly what happened to Børgin; the communities feel overrun, the vast majority of local democracy feel that it has not been possible to be listened to and taken seriously in this process. If you really think that you need to focus local processes better, it must mean that one sometimes also concludes that we don't go ahead with that process, and Børgin, in the opinion of the Center Party, is such an example. This is about what the Right is often most concerned with, namely volunteering in terms of protection, private property rights in large areas related to this, and also listening to local democracy. If you want to take it seriously, you should also have taken Børgin out of the protection processes. It is sad that one chooses to continue a process that has gone so wrong and is then contrary to the wishes of the community, and that one also leaves to the directorate to be responsible for it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1433	When Stefan Heggelund realized that there was someone who had irritated him in the previous working and social committee, I felt a need to put a face on it. [[Laughter]] First of all, I have been inspired by a very good debate that I have been sitting and following, among other things. the Council of State said that there are areas which are fully protected where there is a certain activity and areas where there is no protection but which have significant restrictions. That, I think, is a wise approach. In that context, I could imagine asking the Council of State to reflect a little bit about a concrete situation for which we have a great responsibility. It is Norway’s main salmon watercourse, the Tana River stretch, where the Council of State is aware that this year it has been decided that there is no way of catching fish at all because of the status of the population, and it is undoubtedly critical. At the mouth of Tana there is a nature reserve, and many of those who know Tana and the history of Tana for a long time, it is a problem that conservation as a result of nature reserves makes it illegal in that area to take out sales. There are lots of seals lying in the mouth and – possibly, at least – is a contribution to the lack of salmon rise in the last few years. There may be several reasons, I'm not saying it's the only one, but it's an example that nature management kind of goes from being reasonable to perhaps feeling senseless if it goes beyond other populations. That's the balance I'd like the Council of States to reflect a little bit around, especially in the case of Tana, but also in general, given the particular balance of a protected area for a certain use, or restrictions on use in a non-protected area, which the Council of State itself had in mind in its contribution. I'm taking it up because we've been discussing salmon and possibly fishing in the sea lately in Stortinget, but there's no doubt that one of Norway's and the world's most important populations of Atlantic salmon is in the Tanava stretch, and I feel a special need that we show a responsibility to care for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1444	When it comes to Tanavas, there is no doubt, as the representative Andersen rightly points out, that there are major challenges. Now we've closed the Tanavas stretch for fishing this year. Sea salmon fishing in communes with access to the Tanavas stretch is also closed. This is never simple decisions to make, but it says something about how far the situation where unfortunately had come, and that we no longer have a houseworthy surplus of salmon strain. And then we're going to hope that this river, like all the other salmonell habits that are being shut down now this year, will make it quite possible to get up in the years to come. When it comes to the concrete fact that the predator situation can affect the wild-axis population, that's probably true. These are a little bit of complex questions. We're told that if we left nature alone, he'd probably be able to find a good balance on his own. But when you get a complex of protection area, activity, fishing and fishing bans, it becomes a little more delicate balances to 'fin-tune', to put it that way. But the predator situation in the Tanavas trek is something you're looking at, where it's also, despite the fact that it's closed for salmon fishing, is open to take out predators in the river in the future. That is probably the best answer I can give now, but the representative would like to ask me a written question, and I can elaborate more. Two short comments at the end. Now there's been a lot of discussion about Børgin. There is a matter in progress. I want to underline two things: the only thing is that one has not concluded. We're still waiting for some facts. The second is that if a builds a marine protection area there or elsewhere, what is currently in activity is no longer allowed. In most places where a marine protection area is created, one of them continues with that type of activity. The question is, can a new activity start that will go across the protection base and destroy the natural values? That's another question. Finally, I am among the few, perhaps the only one in the Chamber, who have had the joy of working with – and irritating me over – the representative Stefan Heggelund, both in the Labour and Social Committee, as a representative, and through energy and environmental cooperation, as a State Council. It has been a great pleasure in all of this, and I will also stress, when he has now made his last contribution, to cooperate with the representative Heggelund, who has a great commitment both to labour and social affairs and to raising climate and environmental concerns. And then we'll see if we also get the opportunity to cooperate once later. We're a lot of people who are excited about the fall option, but we're not going to pre-conclude about it right now. Thank you for a good debate. This has been exciting, and I look forward to continuing to take care of our seas in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1459	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 22nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1477	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, there will be up to five lines with replies from members of the government, and those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1484	In this case, the government is promoting proposals for amendments to the Act on Age Limits for Public Servants and to the Law on the Pension Scheme for Nurses. The proposal involves removing the obligation to leave at the acquired special age limit. It is assumed that the changes will also have an impact on the municipal sector. The government's proposal means that those employed in posts with a special age limit of 60 years, 63 years or 65 years of age should be able to choose to continue in the post themselves until they reach the general age limit in the public sector, which is now 70 years old. At the same time, the government indicates that they have a proposal for the Grand Duchy to increase the general age limit to 72 years. The Government Parties and the Support Party The Advance Party anticipates the government's work and makes concrete proposals to increase the age limit to 72 in this case. At the same time, the Government Parties and the Advance Party ask that the Government also consider a further increase in the age limits in working life to 75 years, which shall also apply to employees currently subject to special age limits. This means that the obligation to leave at the acquired special age limit in the future will not be lifted until the age of 70, but until the age of 72 and perhaps thereafter until 75. The current rules on retirement at the special age limit at 60 years, 63 years and 65 years respectively are set out in Section 2 of the Age Limits Act and relate to posts where the service imposes exceptional physical or mental strain on employees or where the service imposes special requirements on physical or mental characteristics. With the government's proposal, this means that employees with a special age limit can remain in office for up to 10 years after what is currently set as a special age limit. With the announcement from the government that a case is being prepared to increase the general age limit to 72 years, we are talking about 12 years, and with the proposal from the government parties and the Progress Party in 75 years, we are talking about up to 15 years beyond what is currently being set as a special age limit. The Committee has been consulted on the matter. Twelve organisations organising special age-limited employees participated in the hearing, none from the employer’s side. With the exception of the academics, all the hearing bodies strongly opposed the government's proposal in the case. There were two main reasons for this. It was referred to the agreement between the government and the employee organisations that amendments to the rules on special age limits should be the subject of negotiations between the parties to the cooling water of the new occupational pension agreement for public sector employees. Negotiations should focus on a permanent pension scheme for persons with a special age limit, which is in practice without the possibility of compensating for the adjustment of their life expectancy, and then on who in the future should be covered by the special age limit rules and what the special age limits should actually be for those to be covered. Organisations underlined the justification for today's special age limit rules, which are three-fold. More than 200000 workers are currently covered by these provisions. They have a very demanding working day. Examples of special age workers include fire and rescue workers, care and care workers, police, prison services, defence, sanitation and health services. The loosing association was also present during the hearing. These are workers with a very demanding working day and with special requirements for suitability. Organisations fear that their more favourable pension rights, justified by the obligation to leave, may actually lapse when that obligation is lifted. The second reason was for employers, who could risk having an increasing number of workers requiring special organisation without the need for tasks. The third reason was simply the risk of impaired social security and preparedness. The majority of the Committee, which is thus the minority in the Grand Duchy, has chosen to take account of the recordings at the hearing and to state that the matter is being referred back to the Government and that the parties are at the negotiating table. The minority of the Committee, which is the majority in the Chamber, has chosen the opposite, to support the government's proposal to abolish the obligation to resign at the level of special age and, at the same time, to propose to extend the age limit further to perhaps up to 75 years. The Labour Party believes that the views of the Government Parties and the Advance Party on this matter are both irresponsible in terms of social security and preparedness and show a very serious breach of the rules of the labour market. Unfortunately, the minority's proposal is adopted by the Storting later today, but if the government changes, we shall make sure to change that matter as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1501	Societal developments have led to a high level of adaptation of the rules on special age limits to today’s society. We are expected to live longer, and therefore it is natural to assume that we are also able to work at an older age than before. Family supervisor Kari Grönås and midwife Eli Ljosnes would like to continue working when they were 65 years old, but because of their age, the municipality said they had to stop. Both wanted to work a few more years. Health worker Kim Pilgaard wrote in 2018 in Fagbladet that he is struggling to understand why those who are not struggling are to be punished for what they deserve. To him it felt like a punishment, perhaps also age discrimination, and he earnestly asked the trade unions to take care of those who would like to work longer. He was also critical that the union had given the employer almost unlimited power to fire him for no reason. Kari, Eli and Kim are not alone. Almost every third employee in the public sector is subject to special age limits which force them into retirement when they reach the age of 60, 63 or 65. Many of these have a strong desire to work longer. Unfortunately, age limits are limited. The obligation to leave at the special age limit is over-mature to be removed. Society has been changing considerably since the special age limits were set several decades ago. In today's society, people are healthier and live longer, fewer children are born, and society needs more hands in work. Then it's backwards to force people who both can and will work out of work. What we're doing now is just saying that you can get rid of it at a special age, but if you want to keep going, you should also be allowed to do it. Eliminating the obligation to leave is an important step towards an age-independent job protection. Modifying the obligation to withdraw from a right of withdrawal, while still retaining the right to a special age pension, is in line with both the pension reform and the working line, and it gives the employees extended rights. With this proposition, we state that suitability in position should be linked to qualifications and abilities rather than years of birth. Several hearing bodies have pointed out that this could lead to increased quality of life and better health, as well as labour income and increased service provision. Yes, it actually means a lot to us to be able to use our skills and competences, and the job is an important part of our lives. Age limits have a normative force and affect the general perception of the appropriate age of departure. This hampers the working line and may lead to shortages of labour in several professions. In the districts are almost all fire constables part-time, with full work next door. Is it reasonable that these should end when they reach the age of 60, even though the municipality may not have enough candidates for the positions? Should not the smoke diving test and other qualification requirements be decisive and not what year you were born? Age in itself cannot be an obstacle. Then we lose valuable skills in working life, several years before what is common to other occupational groups. We also need more midwives and nurses. At that time, there must be political will to maintain this important competence in the labour market for as long as possible. In the debate, one often brings out those who, for some reason, are unable to work because of age, but who do not realize this for themselves. Is it right to exclude the vast majority of healthy elderly people who want to continue working? No, of course not. There must be good human resources policies at work, where good dialogue takes care of employees throughout the work cycle, and senior policy is an essential part of this. As early as 2013, the then Federal Head of Police Union, Sigve Bolstad, called for the ‘good senior policy’ and said the following: ‘We need to remove the obstacles that mean that those who want to continue for more than 60 years must go canoeing and apply to continue, instead of being in the workplace, to stand in the position of resigning.’ He further argued that priority should be given to maintaining valuable skills and making it tempting to extend the professional career. With this proposition, we are giving thousands of workers today an important right and the possibility of a decent departure from work when you want it. We need the labour we can get – and then it should be lacking that we politicians do not give workers the opportunity to continue, if that is what they themselves want. With that, I'm going to deal with the suggestions that we're part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1530	The representative, Mr Hagerup, then drew up the proposals to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1535	In Stortinget, there is broad support for the principle of working time in Norwegian policy. Too often, however, the taskbar has been drawn out as a significant and disconcerting principle, while many of the pieces have been strung every time it comes to practical use. If it's to be paid to be at work, if we're going to have more people to work, the Storting actually has to fix it through legislation. Therefore, the Progress Party ends up with the government's proposal today to stop putting a date stamp on Norwegian workers – completely independent of their qualifications and physical status, which should be decisive to the extent to which they can continue to work. Even on groceries we have come so far that it is no longer the last day of consumption, but the best before, not the bad after. It might be an inspiration for many in the Workers' Party, and at least in the Center Party, who often like to draw equations towards food production and its policy. Because that's what this is all about. It's about forcing people who think physically and mentally they're capable of doing the job, leaving work when they want to contribute. If the taskbar is to be more than a word for anchoring, a word that actually gives its contents, it is right to speak for the proposal today. As previous speakers have already spoken, it is still so that one can and will still have the right to resign, but one will not have any obligation to do so, if one of my own can carry out the job further. The fact that this is problematic for the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, is a big mystery to me, but the only answer to it must be that one has heard more about trade unions than the individual worker, who is the one who carries out the physical work around the country, and who for all practical purposes enables the public sector to deliver services to the citizens at the level that one does. We know that we have an increasingly older population. Fortunately, several of them live longer and are healthier. This case is about whether we should send them out on the basis of the year in which they were born. We should go the other way, and that's also one of the things that the Progress Party does when dealing with this matter today, by increasing the general age limit for work to 72 years and not least a clear indication that one should consider increasing it further to 75 years in the future. It gives several highly skilled workers, in many cases with long seas, good knowledge based on a working life where one has learned all of his life, the ability to actually carry out the work and end it in that way one himself well. For this reason, I am pleased that today we are getting a majority in Stortinget to make assessments of how many years of work can be done, including in the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1548	This is a big and important thing. It affects more than 200 000 people. What the representative Dale said is quite correct: the centre party belongs to the trade unions. The party of progress is easier. They don't have any special sense for trade unions, whether it's in one or the other industry, so for them it's easier. For the Centre Party, good cooperation between the Government and the organisations is important. In this case, all the organisations, except the Academics, agree that one must have an overall assessment. What do I mean by ‘a complete assessment’? Well, here's the rights and obligations of those who have special age limits, and it's natural that one comes with a complete review of it. I would like to stress that in the discussions I have had with trade unionists here, there is no one – I stress: no one – who has not said that one must get a review and a change of who should fall below the special age limits, and what special age limits should apply. In other words, organisations are in favour of changes, but there must be changes where one also has two important points: what are the related pension benefits to which this applies? And in particular, what changes will the public facilitate, so that people can continue in another job with the employer, so that they can continue their working life? That's the whole thing that the Center Party stands for, and that's why we're voting against the government's proposal. There were negotiations between the parties. The government was obviously so upset that it did not come forward with its vision, that it has chosen to break those negotiations and take one item out of it. So it's breaking with what's the point: here we're faced with rights and obligations in a larger context. The Central Party therefore supports the proposal for a decision requiring a resumption of negotiations on special age limits between the Parties. We also oppose the proposal which has been put on the table in the context of the negotiations between the Government and the Progress Party that at this point one should go in to change the general age limit in the country from 70 to 72. The reason for this is that this topic is also a negotiating theme between the parties that must be completed before the Stortinget should decide on the negotiated outcome in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1559	I would like to start by thanking those who took part in the hearing on 22 April and highlighting the important elements of the government's proposal to remove the obligation to withdraw at the special age limit. The special age limits have not arisen randomly, as it appears that the government believes. They are there for several reasons and are there, for example: to protect and care for people who have a lot of physical and mental stress. It's not just about individuals, but it's also about social security. Almost none of the organisations that participated in the hearing would like their government to propose changes to the obligation to withdraw at the special age limit. This proposal shows little respect for the social dimension of the game and does not come as a result of an agreement between the parties. The negative consequences are many, because the special age limits exist for several reasons. It usually applies to professional groups that have a demanding working day, both physically and mentally, added with responsibility for security and preparedness, health professionals and reindeers. When the obligation to withdraw is removed, it is also added that it is for the individual to decide whether or not to withdraw. This makes it harder for both those added and employers. Knowing that the largest special age group is women working in the health sector, with the work environment challenges and pressures that we already know about today, it does not seem that the proposal is intended to take care of the situation of women in working life or in retirement. It is also surprising that there is no research and knowledge underlying the proposal. It is not at all problematic that the Stortinget was not informed when the government, after the bill was sent to Stortinget, asked employee organisations to record on short notice what options should not be covered by the law. SV believes that the government is now forced to listen to the parties who believe that the proposal is not well enough elaborated, and who are now ready to discuss the rules to ensure a more equitable pension system. Therefore, negotiations with the employee organisations should be undertaken to ensure that the parties are effectively involved in the work on future pension rules for persons with a special age limit.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1574	The Christian People's Party is for the line of work. It's been a lot of good stuff, and we're supporting the post for Margaret Hagerup. Many are able to work a few years after the special age limit, but others are not. Here, rules must regulate this very well. It's hard work. I myself have been in a hard-working profession and know that many people cannot work as a nurse or as an assistant for up to 75 years, so this has to be regulated. But not only that – consider the whole development of technology and the professional development that it can be difficult to follow. Hence, it is important that one is wise when one sets these limits. The representative Lundtigen mentioned something that the Christian People's Party is busy in this matter. It applies to the pension conditions to be payable. We need to get rid of these pension traps, so that those with special age limits get extra pension ignition if they are to continue working.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1583	Let me say something about what the proposal is about today, and what it's not about, because I've noticed that there's someone in the big debate who wants to fool those dividing lines a little bit. Today, the proposal deals exclusively with compulsory retirement. That is, the special age limits we have today will continue as before. The pension schemes, the rules around this, that we have today, will continue as before. To put it quite unambiguously: with this decision, a person who chooses to leave by special age can do so, as today, and will receive the same pension as today – if you leave by special age. Why are we doing this? Well, because we think that working life should have an opportunity for those who want to stand in the position a little longer. Either you're a midwife, you're a member of the firefighters or you're a health care worker, you're supposed to be an opportunity for those who want to do it, not to have to end their employment solely because you're a birthday boy. There may be reasons why you can no longer have a job, for example: that you do not meet the requirements that can be expected in a physically demanding profession, but that is another matter. There are also two other processes that have been discussed. One is the discussion with the parties about future pension schemes, which is actually a follow-up to the major pension reform. There is another process. There the parties broke the negotiations. We did not agree in 2018. My door is open to take up that discussion again, we have to do that at some point. It's also the way that if we were to have a bigger discussion about what special age limits we have, when they break in, and who they're going to include, it's quite natural, and obviously for this government, that there's a process and a discussion we're taking with the social partners. This government is not going to make a unilateral decision about it. We're going to have a process with the social partners. But this is only about what is called the exit obligation, it's fair to do. We don't know if there are many people who want to stand a little bit extra in their position, but I think most of us have met employees who say, "I really would have wanted to work until I was 61, 62 or 63 years old." It also means that when you promise and guarantee that this is a proposal you want to reverse at the moment you get into government, it means one thing. This means, to say the least, that you want to reintroduce the right – not just the right, but in practice the duty – to fire a worker only because he reaches a certain age limit, even if he wants to continue in the position and meets other requirements that are necessary for the position. So this doesn't affect the pension — or it affects it in a way that you can earn a little more if you continue to work than if you have to get off at the special age limit. It does not affect the special age limits and that they exist in general, they are there in exactly the same way, but only this obligation to resign.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1600	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1606	The Council of State said in its statement that reversing the changes here today means reintroducing the obligation to fire a worker. What leaves the Council of State with the impression that there is a general experience among those with a special age limit that they are fired from the job? These include: some representatives of some of the professional groups in the gallery today. There was a huge array of fire trucks and firefighters in work clothes, representing both those who work there, and those who are in the trade unions. How do the Councils actually view this? Are those people wrong, and is it the Council of State that is right in its opinion?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1611	Kicking someone isn't a legal term, but I sometimes think you have to be able to use such words in the staging room. If you want to get off at the special age limit, you should still be allowed to do it – just like today, with exactly the same pension rights, with exactly the same opportunities and no one can push you to stay on. The specific age limit is still there. But then the question is, why are we going to have a code that – if I want to continue, if I think I actually have a few years left where I want to stand in the workplace, if I feel that it is unreasonable that this age limit itself, and only that – makes me no longer able to have the job I have? The majority of the population or the government sees no reason why we shouldn't change it. It's also about good senior policy. But as I said, we're not proposing to change it for everyone else. If you want to go, you can still do it. But the question for those who are against this, must be, why shouldn't you be allowed to continue if you actually want to?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1618	I thank you for the answer, because if you want to keep going, you're going to be allowed to do it. Former speakers have talked about the workline and that the Workers' Party's position in this matter breaks with the workline. I would therefore like to hear the Council confirm that there is nothing today that prevents people with a special age limit from continuing to work in other types of jobs, that it is actually quite common for some of the groups we are talking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1623	It's one of the paradoxes of today's legislation. Of course, we do not have a professional ban on someone who has been in e.g. Police. When you are forced to leave the police – and then we assume that when I used the word ‘forced’, it is because you could think of continuing – it is not possible to have a job there, but you can work as a private researcher, a Securitas watch or in another profession where you are wanted as an employee. Then maybe what's paradoxical, as the majority of the majority of the population points out, is that there are obviously people here who want to work longer, but because of the special age limit, they are not allowed or able to work in the business where they have had their long career. I think that's unreasonable.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1628	I thank you for your answer. I don't know if the council has any relation to the number that wants to continue working at the special age limit versus those who are opposed to canceling the obligation to resign. It seems that employee organisations are quite unisonous opponents of the state council and the majority of the population are now pushing against their will. Then I wonder: what makes this matter so urgent that the Council of State actually chooses to disregard the basic rules of the labour market, disregarding the agreements concluded by the Council of State with the trade movement that changes to the rules on the special age limit should take place after negotiations with the parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1633	I disagree that this is a breach of the agreement we had with the parties. I can inform you that it was also made clear to the parties when we broke the negotiations, that because we are parties who have gone to elections on this, it is stated in our government statement, we have promised the people who are concerned about this in Norway, that this is the policy we are going to implement, this was the concrete bill that we would also go to the Stortinget with. But it's a completely different discussion if you're going to start drawing up the big canvas and discussing whether we're going to have special age limits and what they're going to be, and opening up the big discussion there. Then it's a matter of course that we do it together with the social partners and have a good process there, just as the pension of course is no government can rule alone. There we have also had negotiations with the trade unions, and my door is also open to reopen those negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1640	The Council of State notes down the whole matter and says that it is a small matter. The question of who should have special age limits, what they should be and what pension rights should be is a major issue in which organisations should be involved. What is then the big question for me is: Why does the government not pay attention to § 3 of today’s law on age limits for public officials – that is what it still says – etc.? It says: ‘The appointing authority may make provision for an official to continue in service beyond the age limit applicable to the post when the official still fulfils the requirements required by the post.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1648	The answer to that is that it is because we simply want to reverse the burden of proof in this case. We believe that it should not be such that a worker who wants to continue – and then we assume that he meets the criteria for holding the job – should be able to continue in an emergency or, if the employer agrees, by a small break in the law. This means that if you work in a business and feel that you do not want to leave at the age of 60, you can ask the employer to continue, and it is entirely up to the employer to decide. Then we think it's a more reasonable arrangement to say that if you want to continue, and you fill the requirements, you have to be allowed to do it. I'm not undermining this case. I think it's important, but I just think this case is about what it's about. It's not about someone trying to give the impression, that this means new pension rules, etc. It doesn't. It's exactly the same pension scheme as today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1655	It's a fact that all the trade unions, whether they're in the LO family or in other families, except the Academics, are against what the government is now doing. There could be no chance of chance. We are in the situation that today's law according to Section 3 provides an opportunity for those who want to continue in the job, to continue if they meet the professional requirements that are in the job. I do not see the important reason why the government here should provoke and oppose the representatives of the organized labour market, when in case one could only modernise the practice of § 3, which one has had and has legal basis to follow, and could thus solve what the Council of State calls a problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1662	I have great respect for the processes that we have in Norwegian employment. As I said, I believe that there is nothing in this that violates the process we have said that we will have the parties in if the big question of special age comes up, or the process that we have of course linked to retirement. Sometimes political parties and elected representatives disagree with social organisations. The representative Lundtigen is often very good at stressing something that is absolutely crucial, and that is that we have a people's government in this room. This is the policy on which the Right went to the elections. It's in our government statement. It also means a liability. When we've said to voters out there that this is something we'll try to change if we get the opportunity to do that in the Storting, that means that we follow up what we went to elections on, and change it when we have the opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1669	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1677	This is a matter which, to the degrees, shows how far away from the right-hand side of the world of work is. The Council of State began by presenting what he thinks the matter is about, and what it is not about – an attempt to do the matter less than it is. He failed one important thing, namely that this matter is not about who is in charge of the line of work, and who is not in charge of the line of work. There is nothing to prevent people who have left the workplace because they have passed the special age regulations from working as much as they want in other roles. It's about what work we want, and listening to the challenges that ordinary people experience in their working life. It doesn't do the right-hand side. It's nothing but a miserable political craft. The employee organisations were willing to negotiate, there was an agreement on how this should be handled, but the government is running solo, pure right-wing policy, and has short-circuited the whole process. Actually, there's a plan behind this. It is presented from the right as a gift package to the workers – just as a computer virus is presented as a gift to the person who gets it up on his machine. But once you get this into work, the right virus starts spreading and putting its mark on the entire working life, like a computer virus that goes in and changes the software. This can have dramatic consequences for many workers. It is already difficult for many to reach today's special age limits. Had the government wanted to do something about it — a more inclusive working life that makes it easier and better for people to stand longer in work — they've had eight years on them, but they haven't prioritised that. Many are also afraid that the pension will now be put at risk, because the pension rights are linked to this. It can also lead to a more unworthy exit from work for many workers, and it could lead to a reduced preparedness for both recruitment to these important professions and a part of the pressure to go to work even if they really shouldn't. It is quite obvious that the matter is now being pushed through by the right side of the Stortinget, so now the only hope is that there will be a government shift to the autumn – a new large number that can lift the decision that is taken today, and that can make it go back to the negotiating table and resolve the matter according to the rules of the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1690	I just want to make a few comments at the bottom of the debate. The Council of State was concerned that the government in this matter wanted to reverse the burden of proof. It is not long since we were in this room talking about occupational injury and the need to reverse the burden of proof to the benefit of employees. It wasn't on the council, but when it's to the detriment, it's obviously another question. So the Council of State says that there is nothing in the matter that violates the processes of working life. Yes, there is, for there is an agreement of 3 March 2018 and of 29 November 2018 on the adaptation of the legislation for persons with a special age limit to take place in agreement with the parties. It also states that it is first necessary to negotiate the rules applicable in the future to persons with a special age limit — the pension they will receive from the time of the special age limit up to the age of 67, and then to discuss and negotiate who will be covered by the special age limits of the future and what those age limits should be. The government will now reverse the agreed order. The matter has not been settled. The consequences of government proposals can be great, both for individual workers, for employees as a group, for employers, for social security and for our preparedness. We're talking about approx. 200000 employees who may have to be provided with other tasks, but in the proposition it is only short and well – or short and poor, to say the least – that the department ‘suggests that this will be manageable in most cases’. How can the Council of States know this when there has been no investigation of the consequences of the proposal submitted at all? As the representative Lundtigen was in on, the Council of State is trying to tone down what this matter is really about, saying that it's really just about a trifle. If the Council of State really believes that it's just a trifle, at least I can't see any other reason why this case is now being promoted than a purely government demonstration of power towards the trade union movement. If it's just a little puzzle thing, you wouldn't have to promote it now, then you could wait until you had finished the negotiations on the entire case complex on special age limits.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1701	Let me be quite clear: I don't mean this case is about a trifle. I think it is very important for the people involved – for the midwife, for those who are working to protect us from fire, for policemen and for others who are subject to special age limits, who are given the opportunity to continue working if they want to. What I've strongly rejected, however, is that this is a change. It's just to read the matter that Stortinget has in front of him. In general, there is a detailed explanation of the consequences and what the Storting takes a stand on and what it does not. This is not a matter of special age limits in general. All the special age limits we have today continue as they do today. This is not a matter of retirement. It was just to be lacking that we do not come to Stortinget with a pension case related to this, when we are not done with the negotiations with the parties about this, and my door is open. This is a matter of separation. There's someone who's wanted to make this a case where you -- and there's not necessarily anyone in this room -- will almost give the impression that now there's all the special age limits for falling and people are going to get their pension cut. That's not right. This case is only about compulsory retirement. You can ask the opposition parties, who have not only gone against the proposal, but who are fighting it with life and light: why don't you want those who want it to be able to continue, while those who want to go off are allowed to go as they are today? So one replaces the obligation to resign with a right to resign, but also an opportunity to continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1710	I'm not going to waste any more time, but there was a direct question from the Council of State to the opposition parties about why we're so busy not lifting the obligation to resign. This is because, through the Storting hearing, we have received massive feedback from the organisations that they fear that this may be the first step towards the fall of the special age limit rules, because the favourable pensions they currently have with special age limits, from the special age limit to the age of 67, are precisely justified by the obligation to withdraw from them now being removed. Then we believe it is worth listening to the fears of the employee organisations. There is all the greater reason to listen to them when the Council of State says this is a small matter in general, but a big matter for them. Yeah, the ones that apply don't want that change. That's the opposition's starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1715	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 23rd Last@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1732	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, there will be no replication, and those who draw on the list of speakers in addition to the time allocated will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1739	Today, we are taking further steps in the fight for a serious, safe and secure working life. This proposal proposes changes to the penal code, the labour environment law, the compulsory occupational pension law and the Public Service Act, which will contribute in particular to the reinforced criminal law and administrative follow-up to the crime of working life. I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation and now present the Committee's position. Strong tools are needed to address the crime of working life, and the Committee welcomes new tools to combat it. The changes presented in the proposal give clear signals of the harmfulness of serious work-life crime and its serious consequences for workers, businesses and society. Exploitation of foreign workers and the avoidance of taxes are two of the most common forms of labour crime. Immigrants are more vulnerable than Norwegian workers because they are often willing to accept poorer pay and working conditions. Ecocrim demonstrates in its threat assessment that this can lead to considerable savings in labour-intensive professions and projects where many hours of work are laid down, which is also distorting competition. Extensive use of cash is also a characteristic of criminal actors, typically by facilitating black trading. The proposal promotes a self-punishment against theft of wages and salaries with an upper penalty of six years in prison. This provision is further incorporated in the criminal law in order to highlight the seriousness and priority of the hearing received. Proposals are also made for wages and salaries to be paid through banks as a clear rule, while allowing for a narrow exemption. The proposal also proposes that compulsory occupational retirement provision be penalised, which is also widely supported by the hearing bodies. Compulsory occupational retirement provision must be considered as an important part of the total remuneration and the absence of follow-up of obligations will have serious consequences for the workers affected. The Ministry also promotes clarification of the enforcement competence of the Labour Inspectorate under the Public Service Act. Furthermore, it is proposed to increase the penalties for increased circumstances in the Work Environment Act, from three to five years, up to the same level as the Nature Diversity Act and the Pollution Act. This will make HMS legislation more consistent, and there is strong support among the hearing bodies for this. Both LO and NHO indicate that this will give a clear signal of the seriousness of the violation of the law and that occupational crime is undesirable. Finally, I refer to the proposal for an approval system in the car industry, supported by a majority of the committee. Such a mechanism will strengthen the employment of employees, facilitate the choice of customers by serious actors and help authorities to get an overview of the different actors. With this proposition, we guarantee the rights of workers and take further action to counteract black work and the crime of working life. With that, I also take up the proposals we are part of, and look forward to a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1760	The working party joins with what is in the proposition. These are matters which the Labour Party and the trade union movement have fought for too long, and against which the government has finally given up its opposition. It's positive. So, in our view, the government doesn't go far enough. That is why, in this case, we are promoting more proposals to further strengthen the fight against criminals and unprofessional actors. I present with this the proposals of which the Workers' Party is part. The government has been consistently behind and behind in terms of work-life crime. They have simply not attended the hour, and have not even made sure that their own bet on a-krim centres will work. An example of this is the police’s permission to participate in actions directed by the labour-criminal centres. That thing did, after all, cause the whole a-krim bet, where the government's straw straw has been the a-krim centers, collapsed. That is why, in this position, we also refer to our proposals and comments in the Legal Affairs Committee's discussion of Prop. 166 L for 2020-2021, and that we together in it and in this case strengthen the a-krim centres and the cooperating agencies by providing increased resources and authority and clearing all doubts about warrants for information sharing, cooperation at a-krim centres and in a-krim cases, and participation in joint actions under the a-krim centres.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1769	The rapporteur, Mr Hagerup, spoke about proposals both by Mr Grande and by Mr Hagerup. But the president can't see any suggestions. It's the recommendation that counts – so it's settled.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1774	The Progress Party shows that it is a major challenge in our society that we have an increased incidence of crime in the world of work. We have tried several times to propose national minimum wages, which would have made it easier, especially for those who are not from Norway, to know the minimum rights of employment in Norway. It would also have made it easier for the Labour Inspectorate, etc. to exercise control and follow-up. It was mentioned here that the government is behind. I think society and what's going on out there is changing almost faster than what you can run after. But it is important to realize that the work that has been done in recent years has actually been absolutely necessary. Then, at the local level today, both in small and large companies and not least in municipalities, there is a great deal of work to do in order to secure procurement regulations, procurement procedures and follow-up of everything from jobs to those you buy services from outside the community. We believe that an approval system is not the right way to go. As a result, it may be more likely that, in terms of approval arrangements and good follow-up, one tries to get away and privatise in a way the approval itself by means of the fact that individuals and we who are out shopping, whether we are in the mall or have the car washed or repaired, are some kind of supervision. The Progress Party supports A in the Committee's recommendation, minus § 4-1 eighth paragraph, which we do not support.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1785	It is true that no proposals have been made. However, the situation is that the recommendation for B is supported by the majority of the Committee, which unfortunately does not have a majority here in the Chamber. What we're going to discuss is combating work-life crime. I think it's important to have some order of concepts. What's criminal is a violation of Norwegian law. We don't have any national minimum wages, which the Progress Party is talking about. One might want to, but we don't have it in the law. For all the employment in which there are no public tariff agreements, it is free to pay as little as one comes into being if the parties agree to it. It's social dumping, it's inconvenient, it's something you shouldn't do, but it's not illegal. Therefore, we must be very clear that work-life crime is conduct that violates Norwegian law. What is needed is that in a number of areas, Norwegian law needs to be tightened up, because there are many things out in the workplace that people perceive as criminal, but that are not. Therefore, the law has to be amended. When did we get this situation of working life crime becoming such a big and important topic? Well, we got it when we got a new labour market, when we no longer had a common Nordic labour market, but we got an EEA labour market. In fact, unregulated labour immigration from outside the Nordic countries has created this situation, because a number of people living in those countries have so miserable pay and working conditions and there is so much unemployment that they are willing to work for a lick and nothing in Norway. There are many neighbouring issues in this regard. The configuration refers to the situation description of the National Inter-territorial Analysis and Intelligence Centre, NTAES, on the development of labour crime in Norway in 2017 and 2020. One goes into exactly this. That is why the view of the Central Party is that we need to tighten up the law, we need to generalise more collective agreements, we need to strengthen trade unions, but the most important change in systems is that we need to have controlled labour immigration from outside the Nordic countries, so that we get into a situation where the demand for labour in Norway is above the offer. It is the basis of a well-organized working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1796	Crime at work is a very serious threat to the Norwegian labour market model, and one of the best ways to combat crime at work is to increase the level of organisation. The government party seems to agree that an organized working life is very important in the fight against crime at work, but for eight years the government has made it more expensive to be organized, in that the trade union deduction has been frozen years after year, even though everything else has increased in price. This is contradictory. The government says one thing and does another. Here it is also appropriate to mention that the quota deduction for employers has been increased in line with the increase in prices over the same period. This may be part of what we see in the polls for the time being. People have simply begun to look at what the government does, rather than listen to what the government says. For this there are several good suggestions in the recommendation. For the sake of the Socialist Left Party, we are invoking the whole recommendation. The government's party only seems to vote for A in the recommendation. This once again shows, like every other time we have discussed this topic, that the left-hand side is willing to go much further in the fight against work-life crime. This is going to be re-recorded in the next period. Then we have enough to wash with lye instead of a mild hand soap.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1807	In 2015, the government launched a strategy against the crime of working life. It has been revised several times, last in February 2021. This proposition follows up several of the measures of the strategy. We propose a new provision in the penal code on punishment for employers as deliberately and for their own gain fails to pay agreed or statutory remuneration or compensation. Theft of wages and salaries will be punishable by fines or prisons for up to 2 years, or for up to 6 years by ‘gross pay theft’. In this way, the government wants to contribute to a better balance between how society treats employers who steal from their employees and workers who steal from their employer. At the same time, the proposal provides the authorities with additional tools to combat the most unprofessional activities. In the extension of the pay theft proposal, further proposals are being made to introduce criminal liability for offences against the compulsory occupational pension law, to clarify in the Public Service Act that the Labour Inspectorate may impose obligations on the payment of public pay, and to strengthen the penal framework of the Labour Environment Act for the most serious offences. The second main proposal in the proposal concerns the introduction of a provision in the Working Environment Act that wages are to be paid via a bank. The proposal implies that, as a clear rule, pay in cash should be prohibited and that the Labour Inspectorate should be empowered to enforce the new legal requirement. The aim is to reduce the scope for action of those benefiting from the crime of working life, reduce the scope of undeclared work and ensure that workers are given greater security for their social security rights. Finally, it is proposed to amend the Working Environment Act to allow for the establishment of a system of approval for establishments providing services in connection with car care, tyre or wheel changes, etc. The authorisation system shall improve working conditions, facilitate customer choice of serious suppliers and help authorities to better understand the different actors. I am pleased that, like the large masses in the consultation round, the Labour and Social Committee is also largely in agreement with the changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1822	The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1827	There is no doubt that crime at work is very serious. Therefore, it is good that we get a decision here today that makes it a little more difficult for those who want to live by having an offer on the edge of the Norwegian working life model. I'm always amazed at Lundtigen's analysis of what's wrong, because I haven't heard Lundtigen talk about the employers who pay people too badly, who do things that employers shouldn't do. That is the big problem in Norway. Fortunately, we have seen that the Labour Inspectorate has recently reduced many of the employers, fined them huge fines, because they do not do their job of paying people and giving them the working conditions they deserve, whether they are Norwegian or they come from abroad. What surprises me is that the government has once again made an agreement with the Progress Party on the revised national budget, and then priority is given to putting a work crimps centre to Troms and Finnmark, while the Inland still has no work crooks. It's bad, and there should have been much more to it. What's also interesting is that when there's a new a-krim center in place, it's again in the Stortinget it was negotiated. The government's commitment to strategies and measures is too poor, because we are unable to take those that should actually be taken. I am also surprised that the Progress Party once again raises the minimum wage as the solution. No one, either from the employer's side or from the employee's side, agrees that minimum pay is a good model. I heard here when we discussed the matter last week, that most Norwegian employers pay much more than tariffs. Yes, there may be someone who does, but I am the one who wants to make use of the minimum wage. It's going to be a bad solution, both for the workers and for the Norwegian community. I could imagine challenging the Council of States to say something about why you don't now bet on an a-krim centre in the Inland. It's a large area, and there's a lot of nutrition there that's hit by work crime, so it's needed. Why do we not now want to strengthen this effort by putting more work-wreck centres in place, so that all of Norway is covered?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1843	The government has been consistently behind, said the representative of Grande. It is a criticism that is still idle. This proposition just shows that the government is taking the labour market seriously. Much has happened in the last eight years. When the Right came into government, we stepped up the fight against labour crime, increased the penalties and provided a more flexible, family-friendly and safe working life. Since 2015, the government has strengthened its efforts to combat labour crime by over 100 million. kr, established seven a-krim centres, imposed stricter penalties and higher fines for offenders, and established service centres to ensure that foreign workers are informed of their rights and obligations, in order to mention something. For eight years, the Labour Party was able to tighten up the requirements of public procurement by the authorities, but this was done on the Right Guard. The Workers' Party could set up a-krim centres, which ensure that the police, tax administration, Nav and Labour Inspectorate work together against the unprofessional actors, but it did so with the Right in the Government. Prior to the accession of this government, Norway did not have a concrete and action-oriented strategy against labour-related crime. Now we have, and it is again again several times, precisely because the fight against the crime of working life is so important. After eight years of right-wing government, Norway has a well-organised working life with decent pay and working conditions, with full permanent jobs being the general rule. The pay gap between managers and employees is small compared to other countries, there is high trust, and nine out of ten thrive at work. Furthermore, we have good cooperation between the social partners, and we have partners who take responsibility in difficult times. Employment crime is a major challenge for both workers, businesses and society, and we need strong tools to address the crime of working life. This proposition will provide us with further new tools in the fight against unprofessional actors, while also clearly signaling the harmfulness of gross work-life crime. There have been illegal conditions in the car industry. Now it's tightening up in this area as well. Møller Medvind is one of the actors who has operated legally in an industry with major challenges. There, young people are offered a permanent position together with the best in the car industry, and they are now working on the realization of a letter in car care. They are at the forefront of cleaning an industry, and the government is once again taking the lead in ensuring a serious working life with room for everyone. To hear the representative of Grande repeatedly say that the government has limped its legs, falls on its own unfairness.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1858	The central party supports the government's proposal, but we also go further and join with the Workers' Party and SV behind several suggestions in the setting, among others. that health and safety at work authorities are competent to impose obligations, and it shall also apply to suppliers and subcontractors who are subject to joint and several liability under the Public Service Act. We are also in favour of the amendment to the Working Environment Act § 4-1 eighth paragraph, which reads ‘or services related to the maintenance and repair of motor vehicles’, which may also mean that one assesses the necessary restrictions on approval schemes also for other parts of the car industry, e.g. car rubber centres. What is a general case here is that many private individuals in Norway are seafaringly interested in having their services carried out in the cheapest possible way, and this leads to some entrepreneurs wanting to follow it up by having a practice that challenges the Norwegian legislation and challenges the organised labour market. There is something that the Storting must give clear rules to prevent, not least in order to achieve a level playing field. I also took the word because I wanted to answer the post to Rigmor Aasrud. The representative Aasrud said that I have not responded to employers paying people too badly. I expect the representative to think about it was strawberries – I expect that was the problem. I can assure her that the Central Party of today is very clear that we are going to follow the public tariff agreements. This means that those who have strawberries pickers have a minimum tariff to be followed and, if it is a piece of piece, it must be added to the minimum tariff. That being said, one must also be aware that a public tariff agreement for agriculture and horticulture is in a special position – it is so poor that it is 50–60 kr under a public tariff agreement in construction. As a result, many people who benefit from the derogation for agriculture are moving to construction rather quickly – it has a certain opportunity – because there are better pay and working conditions. This has to be changed. The centre party really stands for us following public tariff agreements, for us to make it easier to publish more collective agreements, and for construction and agriculture to have to improve the agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1869	When the representative Hagerup manages to get to say, and performs to say, from this pulpit that the red-green government had no strategies against labour-life crime, she knows that she is not speaking the truth. And you have to be careful with that from this pulpit, because every word is written down. The red-green government had three action plans against social dumping and labour crime. The councils that presented two of them are sitting on the back row of the Stortinget and can confirm that it was done. What they're hiding behind, trying to misjudge the whole debate, is that the right-wing government didn't choose to call it action plans, they call it strategies, and so they could say they were first out with strategies. But this is just semantics. The really crucial thing is what the content of these action plans or strategies is, or what one now chooses to call it. That is what the debate is about. We in the Workers' Party are pleased with the changes that come through this proposition, and we are pleased that the Right has finally given up its intrusive resistance to many of these measures that we have repeatedly promoted, to resistance from the right. We're happy about that. But we want to keep going, because we know that the criminals, the unprofessional ones, they never rest. They're always some steps ahead of the policy, and it becomes extra obvious when we have a right-wing government that looked to those degrees hesitates. If the world had been as rosy as the right side, it would be like -- yes, then I wonder why there is so much frustration among those who work in the workplace, among those who organize the workers in the workplace, and not least among those who work in the fight against the crime of working life. Because when we meet them, they say that almost nothing has been done to make sure that they can share information between themselves. The homes of the police to participate in actions directed by the a-krim centres have not been clarified – the scandal came just before Christmas. You're all the time behind. They therefore ask us to put forward proposals that will ensure that once and for all, there is no doubt about the institutions of the police and about the authorizations to remove any obligation of professional secrecy between the actors working at these centres. They ask us to put forward proposals to strengthen efforts – several centres, so that the whole country is covered, but also increased resources, so that priority is given to resources at each centre, that the issues being identified are given priority in the lines behind, and that more stringent sanctions are applied. We're not giving up. We are promoting new proposals, and for the autumn – after the elections – we are going to implement the policy that is once and for all being cleaned up in the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1882	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 24th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1899	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to three rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1906	When one saw what kind of debate there was in the previous case, where we were actually quite a few, one can only expect what's coming now, because here there's a certain inequality in the points of view, unlike in the previous case. However, I would like to start by thanking the Cooperation Committee on this matter, which generally takes on some important but minor changes in the law. I'll briefly come in on them. The first is the solution for alert cases, which are very much followed up by the 2018 Alert Selection Report, which is called Alerts – Values and Protection. One suggests here, despite the fact that it has our various actors who have had different views on each one, that the right of appeal which is now being arranged for it to be made subject to discrimination should be laid down. The bulk of the population ends up in it all very important. Furthermore, several other minor changes have been proposed to the Discrimination Law, and not least a temporary extension of the right of priority under Section 14-2 of the Labour Environment Act, which the Stortinget has also previously asked for corona treatment. There are also proposals for a revised code of work at the employer's home, which is largely consistent with the ratification of ILO Convention No. 189. This is essentially the content of the proposal we are now considering. I just want to add, in conclusion, to the last point that, when it comes to changing the home, I think, on behalf of the Progress Party, that the proposal contained in the proposal is too weak a foundation, and discussions about the practice of regulation, control and risk and not least the risk of significant red tape are too weak for us to want to join it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1919	Ensuring a code that makes it safe for Norwegian workers to notify has long been an important issue for the Workers' Party. Already in 2015, we promoted a proposal for a representative on the need for greater protection of alerts. The curtain was a number of ugly cases about sanctions and reprisals against alerts that had appeared in the public light. Some of the worst cases were even in the public sector, both in the state and in the municipality. In the private sector, research showed that it was safer to notify serious companies with collective agreements and existing protection agencies and trustees than was often the case in the public sector. In 2015, we promoted five concrete proposals to strengthen the protection of alerts, and underlined that alerts are both correct and desirable in order to prevent or stop adverse conditions in Norwegian workplaces. Our proposals were not adopted at that time, but the Stortinget gathered at least to ask for a public body to be set up. Finally, there was a matter for Stortinget, in April 2019, three and a half years after the Workers' Party had promoted its original proposal. Finally, in June 2019, the Stortinget adopted new provisions on alerts, including the establishment of a low-threshold alert alert alert alert breach. Now there have been two more years, before the government finally comes up with a case for Stortingen to set up this offer. It's been a little bit small. In the case two years ago, the government opposed the majority of the Board of Alerts to establish its own dispute subject for restitution proceedings, recommending instead that the task be added to the existing dispute resolution panel. The Labour Party wanted to follow the majority in the Alert Committee at the time, but for the sake of speeding up the offer, we voted in favour of the solution proposed by the government. At the same time, we asked the government to evaluate the scheme and come back to Stortinget with an assessment of how the low-threshold offer worked. We had started to wonder so little about whether we should ask for that evaluation, then Prop. 154 L suddenly went down, where it was clear that the low-threshold offer to alerts experiencing reprisals has not yet been established. It's hard to understand why it's taken so long. The argument for using the dispute resolution topic was to quickly get the offer in place. Then there will be no dispute resolution panel either, but discrimination panel. Now we assume that there will be no more encumbrance in this case. At the same time, we want an insurance from the Council of State for sufficient resources to ensure that neither the alert nor gender issues are drawn out in time. In addition, we believe that it is now high time to start work on setting up a separate alert. We are aware of the work being done in the Labour Inspectorate. One would like to build on it, and it would be interesting to hear the Council of State's assessment of how far it has come.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1932	In this case, the government is following up the Alert Board’s report, including the issue of a low-threshold offer in addition to the courts, on retribution cases after notification. The majority of the notifying committee proposed to set up a separate warning panel on issues of non-recovery in case of alerts because of the need for a faster, more reasonable and more effective mechanism than that represented by the courts in these cases. At that time, however, the Labour Inspectorate had built up considerable skills in warning, with a number of guidance activities in this area. Therefore, government parties supported a low threshold for reproducibility cases due to alerts and considered that building on an existing denominator was a better solution rather than establishing a new one. Thus, existing competences and administration can be useful, which will be more resource-efficient. In this proposition, the Government proposes to confer upon the Discrimination Officer the power to settle disputes concerning the reprisal after notification. The competence of the panel in alert cases is proposed to be restricted to dismissal and dismissal proceedings, so that such disputes remain reserved for judicial proceedings. The Government therefore considers that the proposal addresses concerns raised by several hearing bodies regarding legal certainty at the hearing in connection with Prop. 74 L for 2018-2019, Changes in the Working Environment Act, on alerts. We also discuss here amended regulations on work in the employer's home to ensure workers in this arena. This is important to support a serious and decent working life, even when work is done in private homes. The government parties therefore support Recommendation A in the setting, but will vote against Recommendation B.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1951	SV supports the proposal that people who are exposed to redundancy in the labour market should be able to take the matter up for consideration, and that the latter should have the authority to identify upliftment and to some extent to compensate for violations of the prohibition. The proposal is widely accepted by many hearing aids. It has been suggested that a low threshold for recovery cases after notification will increase the protection against retaliation considerably, but that it is particularly important to ensure that the processing is free, that a lawyer is not required to use the process, and that one does not risk having to pay the costs to the counterparty. The gender equality and discrimination scene here asks for a separate unit for alerts cases that develop specific competences in this area. At the same time, several respondents express concerns about the availability of resources and that the proposal will lead to an increase in the amount of resources available, which already has a long time to deal with. This means that there is a need to allow sufficient funds, so that the duration of treatment is not extended further, and that the treatment of restitution cases with alerts should not go beyond the follow-up to the gender and discrimination issues identified today. In this case SV makes an own proposal, and it is: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that alert cases are distinguished in a separate department of the Discrimination Topic, which builds up specific competence in dealing with alert cases under the Working Environment Act.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1967	The representative of Solfrid Lerbreck has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1972	I had to take the word just to say that I think this change is very important in many municipalities today that experience that warning cases extend for a long time. Even if you have been informed that there have been repayments, you will not have to cover legal expenses, you have to drive your cases in the legal system, and that is not good arrangements as it is today. So even if this doesn't have a retrospective effect, I think this is going to have a provocative effect in terms of reprisals. I think it's a force for employees around companies and the public sector that it can now be determined by a mention of whether it has been retaliation, and whether it's based on looking at possible upliftment, etc. This, I think, is very good, and an important decision is made with this legislative decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1977	The legislative proposal under consideration today is part of the work on strengthening alerts in Norwegian working life and a further follow-up of the alert committee's position. The possibility of deciding whether a alert is unlawfully requited by their employer and, where appropriate, of being sued or compensated for in this respect is an important part of the alert protection. Today, such cases must be promoted before the courts, but practice shows that relatively few alert cases are actually brought before the courts. An important reason is enough that the threshold for travelling such a case is perceived to be high. The Government therefore proposes to lower the threshold by giving the Discrimination Board the power to settle disputes concerning infringements of the prohibition on return in case of alerts in accordance with the rules of the Working Environment Act. The proposal will make it easier and more reasonable for workers who believe that they have been reimbursed after notifying, to try their case. I am very pleased that an overall committee joins the proposal. We also propose a change in the scope of the Employment Environment Act for work at the employer's home. It is a necessary change to be able to ratify ILO Convention No. 189 on decent work for workers in private homes, to which the Stortinget agreed on 28 May. In order to comply with the Convention, it is necessary to extend the statutory framework for employment in the employer’s home somewhat. In the light of a request decision by the Stortinget, it is also proposed to extend the right of priority to new employment for workers who have completed their employment due to the effects of the covid-19 pandemic. It is proposed to extend the right of preference in such cases by 12 months, i.e.: that employees will have a right of pre-emption for the period from the date of termination and for two years from the end of the period of notice. The extension of the right of pre-emption is temporary and will apply to persons whose employment is terminated during the period from 1 July 2021 onwards of the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1988	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1994	The government was already authorised in 2019 to establish a low-threshold offer for alerts that are subject to retaliation. Actually, we were a little surprised that a new case is needed, but my question is, what is the reason why it has taken so long to get this low-threshold offer in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e1999	Now I haven't been a State Council since that decision, but I think a general explanation – without me going into concrete issues related to this particular case – is that the last year has involved a lot of work in very many areas for a lot of people in the department. It has made some things that we wish we had had even better progress on, perhaps something has been delayed. But it is nevertheless important that the matter comes, and it comes and is dealt with in this big session.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e2004	Thanks for the answer. It is understandable that a lot has been queued in the year that has passed, but when the matter is only now on the Stortinges table, I hope the Council of State can assure you that the decision will be taken as soon as possible. However, what is a little worrying is that the government parties are not in favour of a proposal that the subject of discrimination must be secured with sufficient resources to be able to handle alert cases in a good way without prejudice to gender equality. Then I might hope that Stortingen can get that insurance from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e2009	The denominator has also been allocated additional resources in the past. That is the way in which the representative has heard other government councils also say that the money comes into the state budget. Now it has become a practice that very much different is also going to be revised, but it is basically the state budget that is the usual way of dealing with money issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e2014	Thanks for the answer. The rapporteur stated that there is a certain difference between the position and the opposition in this case, and some of the differences are about the position of a separate alert agent, which the government parties have been against all the way. There is a great danger that the proposal that one now initiates the work of assessing a separate alert agent will be voted down in Stortinget today. I said in my post that we are familiar with the work being done in the Labour Inspectorate. The undersigned even has recommended people to seek advice there. I don't know how it went, but hopefully well, because I haven't heard anything more. What I'm asking is whether the door is closed too well on the part of the Council of State and the government parties in assessing the need for an alert. What should be done, if necessary, to change the opinion of the Council of State in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e2019	In general, there's never an advantage to stop thinking. It can come up with problems, and it can show that evolution is such that you have to reconsider things you may not have been very blatant to, but that you have simply considered for practical reasons to be a bad solution. ‘Bad’ is perhaps a bit exaggerated, but not a solution that you would have gone for, at least. The very specific mention is made of the representative himself. It was probably a concern when this question of a separate representative came up, for example. the interfaces up to the Labour Inspectorate, which includes, inter alia: The Labour Inspectorate also pointed out that in the worst case cases, there is a risk of turning instead of strengthening the alert protection and follow-up, which is the intention.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e2024	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 25-digit number
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e2043	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e2050	This case marks an important distinction in the way we think about day money and education. The need to change a rigid regulatory framework that prevents the lay-off and the unemployed from taking the training that may be the way back to work has long been clear. Today’s labour market is increasingly demanding skills and formal qualifications, and it has been a paradox that you cannot train when you get a day’s allowance, while that education could have been the key to getting a new job. There is also a background to three public investigations that have proposed changes to the day-to-day pay legislation and that were established before the coronary apathy further updated this issue. So this is not a new issue. For example, in the years following the fall in the oil price in 2014, we saw problems with the fact that there were too many obstacles for the out-of-work and unemployed who wanted to retrain to get back to work more quickly, leading to more embellishment. But there is also no doubt that the coronary apathy has underlined the need for these changes to an even greater extent, as there are people with shorter education who are hardest hit when people are outlawed and lost their jobs. This led to a need for a temporary scheme that was put in place last April, and now there are major and permanent changes to the rules, which will make it easier for many to get the skills they need to get to work more quickly. These changes now provide in particular for the possibility for beneficiaries to take primary and secondary education and vocational education. For this type of training, a lower age limit of 25 years has been proposed, with the possibility of taking full-time training and limitations on the requirement to be a true jobseeker. For higher education and universities, there are some more limitations, such as: as regards age limit, study progression, duration and requirements to be a true job seeker, and a lower age limit of 30 years. It is important that the general rule continues to be that daily allowances are a temporary security of income and that daily allowances are not initially to become an alternative source of funding for training or education. At the same time, it is important to ensure that people do not have to choose between the daily allowance and the skills they take just to get back to work more quickly. That's why there's an important and joyful principleal distinction we're making today with these changes, which will lead to a more adaptable working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e2061	The Labour Party will have a new skills reform that ensures that no one is left alone in the major changes facing Norway and the world of work. Norwegian employment has long been at the top of the world in employment, productivity, change and development. It's not obvious that in the future it'll be like this, if we don't make it easier to participate in competences throughout our lives. We will give workers opportunities to learn throughout their working life, lifelong learning, to meet changing and growing demands. We're going to make people safe in the future, and the ambition of the Workers' Party is that everyone should have good opportunities in the future's working life. The changes in the legislation on day pay for education and skills are one of several necessary changes. Unemployment has a high cost both for society and for individuals. For the Workers' Party, no task is more important than getting the whole people to work. The ability to acquire relevant competences is essential to ensure a high level of employment. The proposition we have to deal with today is a follow-up to Decision No. 319 of 15 December 2017. The decision was taken against the votes of the representatives of the Right, the Party of Advancement and the Left. It was before the Christian People's Party joined the government – and out of Norwegian working life – and it was after the crisis associated with the oil price drop that we promoted that proposal. It must be allowed to say that it has taken a long time. So one crisis was not enough for the right-wing government. It had to be another crisis before it did what the Storting asked for. The working party clearly supports the intention of the proposition. We have promoted this ourselves. If this is to work as intended, it is essential that the unemployed and those on leave are properly informed about the opportunities available to participate in education and that they are closely followed up by Nav. Therefore, we are promoting proposals for decisions to impose on Nav an information obligation and a systematic follow-up of the beneficiaries without completing high school or primary school. The proposal does not mention whether existing study offers will meet the need for more people to combine daily allowances and education in the future. We know that the demand for skilled workers will increase sharply in the years ahead. It requires a general strengthening of both the vocational training system, the apprenticeship system and the vocational training courses, so that there is actually a real offer of study for persons wishing to take advantage of the possibility of combining daily allowances with education. For professional studies, we know that there is already a major shortage of available apprenticeships. It is therefore important that the government follow this closely and assess the need to extend the temporary derogations at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e2072	First, I would like to thank the case rapporteur for a good description and review of the matter. This is a matter where there is an overall committee that is behind the legislative changes that have been promoted, and we very much appreciate that in the Central Party. The case concerns access to day-care training and education. We know that among those who are on leave or become unemployed, there is an overweight of people with less theoretical education and less work experience. So there are vulnerable groups that have a much more demanding situation of competing in the labour market, and we need to do a better job so that they are better able to get their place in a hard-to-earth job. For this reason, the Central Party, SV and the Workers' Party also have Roman Numeral Proposals I and II under point B of the vote, and there are two important factors, namely that the Stortinget asks the Government to impose an information obligation on Nav, and that the people concerned must be monitored closely and systematically if they are to use the opportunity to participate in day-to-day education. It is in order to complete education at primary and secondary level. I'm very surprised that there couldn't also be an overall committee here. It's very special that someone here doesn't say that Nav needs to have an extra attention for the people involved, and that attention, after being informed about it, also leads to it being followed closely and systematically. I think it is quite significant that the government parties cannot take part in it. I can't understand it any other way than that they see clearly the restriction that is currently at the local Nav offices in doing a real job with regard to people who need this offer. One sees that one does not have the resources, one does not have the professionals, and one does not have the culture that talks with people and has a personal dialogue, so that one can inspire and convey the opportunities that are. It should be seaworthy. There's a lot of talk about vulnerable groups, there's a lot of talk about better facilitating those who have weak connections, but then it comes to proposals where we stay alone. It's sad, and it's one of the most important things that any new government has to do something about in the Nav system, that's that one sets the first line able to do the job that's needed. This is one of the areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e2085	Through the coronary crisis, we have seen how unemployment has increased dramatically, and how the crisis has gone wrong. In particular, low-paid and low-skilled people and those with weak employment backgrounds have been affected. For SV, the most important thing is to make sure that unemployment did not get stuck and to prevent the road to those on the outside before the crisis came is not even longer afterwards. This proposition we're dealing with now, does not come as a result of the pandemic, but as a result of a decision that the Stortinget made completely back in 2017, against the voices of the Right, Left and Advance Party. It is critical that the case has taken so long to be treated — all the time when young people have been without education, it has become increasingly tougher in the labour market in recent years, and that these developments do not seem to turn around. When the path of unemployment is out of work, young people too are particularly delayed. The ability to qualify for work through education is the key to getting more people out of work, and more people will now be able to do this. At the same time, I would like to take advantage of SV's proposal to be entitled to a daily allowance if one is already a student and has lost its income during the pandemic as a result of closure and leave. Students are among those who have labored most during this crisis. A study from the NRK shows that two out of five students now have poorer advice, and there is a broad consensus that the support is not enough to live off. Students with a job alongside the study are taxed on equal lines with other employees, and they should therefore also have the same right to help from the community they pay into what is an extraordinary and demanding situation for many. Unfortunately, there are few other parties who will listen to this and seem to believe that students are an individual group who can move home to their parents and receive financial help when the crisis arises. It's not like that. It is particularly important now to ensure that students do not have to quit the study, which qualifies for work at a time when one focuses on preventing increasing unemployment on the other side of the crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e2098	The representative, Solfrid Lerbreck, has addressed SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e2103	I think it's very good that we adopt this today, and I think it's basically about turning around a little bit about how we've been thinking about the relationship between work and education – at least some of it. It's a point that taking education can of course make you get a little bit further away from the labour market in the short term, in the sense that you might apply for a little less jobs or have a little less time for that. At the same time, it can clearly increase the chances of getting into work in the long term. So I'm going to reveal that I've been for this and have also been working on this for a very long time. It was very nice to be the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and, in fact, with, among other things. a decision on a request in the back – be able to implement and present it. This is something we also worked with when I was a minister of knowledge, based on the recognition that we have had a system – and have it still partly – that is far too rigid for people who can't do everything in the A4 way. If you have dropped out of high school when you were 17 years old, or you have graduated from high school, and when you are 23 or 27 years old, you find that you should try to pick it up again, it has been difficult – because of both youth and adult law gaps and very much else, and because there has been in practice a huge wall between the workplace and the daytime pay field. It has been important to say that this thinking is part of the government's great level of competence. We may have called it a reform, we too, but this is an important part of it. In concrete terms, I also think that it makes sense – and I am glad that we are agreed – that we are making some rules that adjust and that try to meet slightly different needs and also slightly different challenges for different types of unemployed people. This means, among other things: that there will be a slightly higher threshold for those with previous higher education and, to that end, a lower threshold for those who may not have completed education and, for example, for those with higher education. need vocational training or higher vocational training through a specialised school. Then, of course, one must have completed education and have a letter at the bottom. I'm glad we're getting to this. In this case, I am also concerned that we should actually follow up on the consequences of it, so that in the future, when we are going to see if we are going to adjust the legislation, we can do so in a knowledge-based way. We agree here that education is good, but we also agree that people should come back to work as soon as possible, and this is an attempt to combine the two things.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e2114	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e2119	Too many young people are out of work, and many of them have not completed secondary education. Probably not all of them will be aware of the rights and opportunities they have, and probably not all are in a position to stand on the requirements and knock on the door of Nav. Therefore, it is a mystery for the Workers' Party that the right-hand side will not join the proposal in this position. Why does the Council of State not want Nav to have an obligation to provide information to beneficiaries and close and systematic follow-up to those who have not completed primary or secondary education?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e2124	Nav, of course, has to inform and not only inform a little like this passively. This is where Nav has to work. Nav must also work with the counties. If we're going to get something positive out of the dark year we're about to leave behind, I think all the states and also the Nav system have become even more aware of how vital it is that states and Nav are closely connected, that is, colleges, colleges, and the Nav system. We have also done that to stimulate, among other things. by establishing coordinating positions and by participating in – or encouraging – Nav to – the creation of its own cooperation contracts. My point is simply – and this is probably what the representative of Grande remembers from the time his party was put into government – that it is not automatically that because you do not support a proposal in the Stortinget, you are stubbornly opposed to exactly what it says there. It could be that you view it as e.g. redundant, not necessary or too detailed in such a large case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e2132	I disagree. It is vital that more people are given the opportunity to learn lifelong, that more people are given good opportunities in future working life through education, and that people should at least be aware of the offer, and that they should have a closer and more systematic follow-up. In this respect, the Council of State itself said the key word: coordination. It is absolutely essential to have a coordinated and simultaneous response to these. There are partly fragmented responsibilities in this respect, between municipalities, counties and the state, and also between government departments. Will the Council of State assure us that he is involved and in contact with his colleagues in the Council of State to ensure that this effort we are adopting today is coordinated with increased access to study places, but also that consideration is being given to extending the measures if one looks further ahead in the crisis that there will be a need to consider a further extension of what we are adopting today?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e2139	The answer to the first is yes. Not only is it fine, it is absolutely necessary to also e.g.. the Minister of Higher Education and Research is following up on this with its sector. So it's important to say that there's nothing he starts with in the moment we adopt this. This is again part of the competence work and the competence reform that the government has been working with for a very long time – ever since we blew a little dust from the competence policy when we got into the government offices, as I used to say. Not because they were dusty, those who were there, but because it had not received so much attention. So I'm a little bit unsure about the last question, because this isn't corona-related, this is permanent. Like this, it's going to be, and I think it's very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e2146	Yeah, this is permanent, and it's about people who are either on leave or out of work. So it's people who have been in the world of work. They are not in primary or secondary education. What is then central is Nav's role in it. When the government parties vote against the government making an extra effort by following closely and systematically those who have the opportunity to make use of this, my question must be: What is it that Nav does not have today that they cannot follow it up? That's the vote of the government parties. One doesn't have what's needed, so one votes against. What is it that you don't have, but you need it?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e2153	Those who sit on the committee get answers to these things in detail, but it's not hard to see a lot of Nav hasn't done or isn't doing well enough. To start somewhere: it's e.g. such that Nav has a training measure. It's fine, but it's too little used. So it's too bad, and that's where the representative Grande has a very important point, this is the rather boring part of the policy, you don't get any headlines to say that there's too little coordination, but it's clear that if this is going to work, it also means that the school place or the apprenticeship place has to be there when a student needs it. It doesn't help if you go for seven months on a daily allowance, and then you get to start. It has to be flexible running as well. The contact between Nav and the counties, who own and run secondary schools and vocational schools, has been too weak. It has to get better, it needs to be strengthened. So it's also obvious that you're using this actively. There is a sunny expectation for the Nav system that this must be used, which they will also be told clearly.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e2162	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e2169	It was the post of the representative of Grande and the representative Lerbreck that made me take the floor, because it is a little popular practice in the opposition to present proposals that the government is already working on, but which are not completely closed, and which are therefore voted against, and which in any case require an investigation in the government first, so to speak – when the proposition comes to Stortinget – that this is something that the government is doing very reluctantly. I believe that the history of this case shows that already in 2015 and 2016 – i.e. before the request decision in 2017 to which it refers – decorations were made in this area with regard to the possibility of combining daily allowances and education. It shows that this is not exactly the way the opposition will put it – that this is a problem that has almost been discovered only because the opposition has put it on the table and which the government has been reluctant to introduce because of a request decision. I hope that the majority who are in the Grand Duchy now will continue after the election too, but I have to admit that if it is not going to happen, it is going to be a little bit of fun to see if someone might meet himself a little bit in the door with this exercise after the election.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e2178	We agree on the legislative changes. We agree that it should be clearly targeted at those who do not have primary or secondary education. Then we got to the point that Nav has a key role here. It's Nav who's sitting on the daily allowance, it's Nav who has a follow-up in all areas that relate to those who don't have income-bearing work. So the representative of Toning Riise says that there has to be an investigation. What is proposed by the minority in this room is that these people should be followed closely and systematically if they use the opportunity to participate in day-care education. There's nothing that needs investigation, but it requires professionals in the first line, because it's the professionals in the first line – i.e. in the urban offices or in the local Nav offices – who have firsthand knowledge of these people. It requires that they have time, opportunity and expertise to do the job. I have no other explanation as to the opposition of the government parties to the proposal than that they acknowledge that this first line is not available today. It is very regrettable that one is not willing to do anything about it, so that all of these good intentions that we are now legally making changes to follow up do not have the practical follow-up by having people who can do the job in practice. These are, to a large extent, young people who need the vigilance of a society — to use a good expression from the Gudbrand Valley — and who need community involvement in stimulating such activity, and then they have to be trusted through personal contact. But the situation is that the local Nav offices today are so poorly staffed that they play a small role. Therefore, the government parties are probably voting against – if I do not get any other explanation, it is the explanation that remains after this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e2185	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 26.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e2202	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, no lines will be given. Those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e2209	Thank you to the members of the Committee for your work. It's a pleasure to be able to present the settings of a consensual person to this proposition. The case relates to changes in the public welfare law at two points, e.g. assistance to children during hospitalisation, § 6-8, and the timing of disability benefits, § 11-18 and § 22-12. The various parties will do their best to improve their view. So to how the Christian People's Party looks at things. The government has asked the government to submit legislative proposals to ensure that children under the age of 18 are not withdrawn from basic or auxiliary care during long-term hospital stays. The government has given priority to making changes to the entitlement to aid and returning to the Storting when it comes to basic aid. It's the Christian People's Party very naked. One has thought that hospital stays are assimilated to institutional stays, so that in such situations the public takes over the cost of care and supervision. This has proved not to be an option for hospitalisation, which is already excluded for stays up to three months. When we see that there is a need for assistance for children with long-term hospital stays, it is important that this change comes in place as soon as this is done. Feedbacks we've got from families in such situations are that this is a change that will remove one should from their shoulders. Especially small children admitted to hospitals need more supervision, security and care than is possible for them to add. It requires that one of the parents adjust their work so that they can also be with the child and exercise the necessary oversight. That aid will continue regardless of the length of hospitalisation will help families who are already in a difficult situation. The second part of the proposition is a clarification of today's legal text and relates to the transition from AAP to disability. The Civilbodsman has assessed whether the practice of the current legislation is in accordance with § 22-12. The conclusion is that practice is consistent with the regulatory framework, but clarification will clarify the calculation of the transition between the two performances. For the calendar month in which the disability benefit is granted, the wording is not exactly the same, especially for those cases where the payment of redundancy benefits has not yet been made for the whole month, even if the recipient has subsequent decisions. This will be arranged now. Initialisation is a clarification of the current legal text and confirms that work clearance money is paid until the date of action of disability.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e2226	In the context of the examination by the Storting of draft representatives 44 S for 2020-2021, to ensure assistance for children during long-term hospital stays, the Stortinget decided to ask the government to submit the necessary legislative proposals to ensure that children under the age of 18 are not put into basic or auxiliary care as a result of long-term hospital stays. Through the organisation Løvemmammen it was known that families had received unreasonable reimbursement claims from Nav after their child had been hospitalized for more than three months. For the Workers' Party, there was no doubt. The law had to be amended. We cannot be aware that families and children will lose financial support because the child has been hospitalized for more than three months. Camilla Rindahl of Løvemmamen well described the rough everyday life of families with sick children: ‘It is difficult to explain how much is required of parents to be in such a situation over time. It's about giving everything all the time, all the day. Nurses and doctors go off guard – they don't do that to their parents. There is no shift change, only days and nights that slip into the next." A hospital stay is not a relief. There is an unreasonable reason why children should lose the financial support for aid. It is worth noting that in some cases the reason for the need to extend hospitalisation is precisely that the system around it has not been able to mobilise the necessary measures to ensure that the family and the child can obtain adequate services in their home or municipality. It is therefore gratifying that a unanimous fall in February was behind the decision that children should not be put into auxiliary care for long-term hospital stays. So today we are dealing with the necessary legislative changes. Today we correct a practice that has been a burden for families with sick children. The Labour Party is pleased that there is an overall committee that is also behind the vote this time, and we are pleased that the government parties turned for 12 hours when the matter was under consideration in February.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e2244	Today is a good day for families who are dependent on aid when their children are hospitalized. Today, Stortinget's SV agreed with its original proposal that seriously ill children who have been hospitalized for a long time should not be withdrawn from the aid. Help is a benefit that is given to families who care for sick children and who have heavy tasks of care and care. The benefit is important for families who depend entirely on their needs to be adapted and the welfare state provides for those who need it. It is the most vulnerable among us who need the decision Stortinget makes today. Those who already have heavy tasks and a lot of responsibility need us to remove this extra burden. In this case, it is also very gratifying that the government was able to turn around in time after they went out in the media to say that they were not going to do it. The government first said that the kids get a discharge in the hospital, and that therefore there is no need for the aid. For those that apply, reality is a whole different thing. Nursing activities tend to increase and increase the burden of hospital entry, leading to far more responsibilities and concerns. At the same time, siblings are often at home who also demand their own. It's good that a mass mass today can agree that hospitalization for these seriously ill kids is not off, and that it's obvious that we should listen to these family members and the Løvemmammen's struggle for better dishes for those in society who need it the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e2259	The proposal to assist children while staying in hospitals for treatment today follows up a unanimous committee and a unanimous decision. Some people think it's looking at things, when you hear the arguments, and see if it can happen that the caution in that or that answer you gave initially, maybe not good enough, is terribly bad. I have to admit, I really don't think so. I don't like being forced to change my mind if I haven't changed my mind, but when we had this case for treatment, the government parties also changed it, and so here it was actually a good reason to change the system and change the change. It is a larger and relatively comprehensive question, on which the Stortinget has had another case for treatment, if one is to discuss the whole system of how to either get or not get, get laid or fail to earn benefits, differences there in somatic and psychiatric, etc. But basically, this is because the situation and the reasons for getting aid, probably don't go away over time when you have a child in a hospital. Although in many other cases it may make sense to think that here you get food and lodging, it has to look at this and also hear the story of those who have engaged in the matter because this is something they experience themselves in everyday life, made us get a unanimous wholesaler first, and that in this case the government has not spent undue time, but quickly promoted proposals, so that it can be adopted in this session.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e2266	Only one explanation of vote on the grounds of the Workers' Party. As the rapporteur said, it is also proposed to amend the proposal in paragraphs 11-18 and 22-12 of the Code on the Time of Disability for Persons receiving the redundancy allowance. The amendments are presented in the proposal as a clarification and clarification of the legal text which does not imply any change for users. So the working party was behind the change, like the rest of the committee. So the case is made as a clarification of the current right and that for most people it won't mean any big difference either one chooses one way or the other. But, as Nav himself says in the case, for some people it might turn negative, for others it might turn the other way out. For example, those that might seem negative. young people, those with young children and surviving spouses/partners. We were kind of willing to accept that -- some winners, some losers, a balance there. But then we've seen a VG thing today that shows a slightly different reality. This applies to a very specific person with a redundancy allowance of NOK 20 500 per month, but who would instead receive NOK 28 000 from January to February with disability benefit and child allowance. It is quite a lot of money and has great consequences for a lonely caregiver. In principle, there may not be any very good reason either that a right for users is demanding to deal with the matter purely administratively. It must be the best of the users who are at the centre if the two considerations conflict a little. The Workers' Party will therefore notify us that we will vote against the changes in Sections 11-18 and 22-12, and then we want a new assessment of how the proposed changes actually affect the users. There must be numbers in Nav that allow you to build a case on and show a little more clearly what the consequences of the case are.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e2275	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 27.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e2288	The so-called alternate for Nordland, Kari Anne Bøkestad Andreassen, is now taking the seat. The size then goes to voting on the case no. 1-24 and Case No. 38 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e2299	Case No. 1–18 is the second time legal proceedings and concerns legislative acts 140 up to and including 157. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e2332	Four proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Center Party the proposals No 2-4, by Nicholas Wilkinson, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The third paragraph of Section 4A-2 of the Code is replaced by the following: The second subparagraph of this paragraph shall be notified in writing without delay after publication. If representatives of the Grand Duchy, representing at least one third of the members of the Grand Duchy in total, are unable to support the regulation, or parts thereof, and express this in writing in accordance with the rules of procedure adopted in the Grand Duchy, the Ministry shall immediately abolish the provisions in question. The decision to repeal the regulation shall be notified to the Grand Duchy in accordance with the provisions of the first sentence.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘In the temporary law on restrictions on the entry of non-residents for reasons of public health, the fifth paragraph of Section 2 is replaced by the following: The second sentence of the fourth subparagraph shall be notified in writing without delay after publication. If, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure adopted in the Grand Duchy, representatives of the Grand Duchy, representing at least one third of the members of the Grand Duchy, are unable to support the regulation or parts thereof and express this in writing, the King shall be obliged to repeal the provisions in question without delay. The decision to repeal the regulation shall be notified to the Grand Duchy in accordance with the provisions of the first sentence.’;» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e2370	There is a vote on proposal No. One from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I In Law No. 5 August 1994 55 on the protection against communicable diseases is amended as follows: [[Infection protection law]] the following Chapter 4A is inserted: Cape. 4A Provisional provisions for the certificate of corona § 4A-1 Korona certificate The Korona certificate shall demonstrate, in accordance with a single European technical framework, that a person has been vaccinated against covid-19, has undergone covid-19 based on an approved test or test result for SARS-CoV-2. The Ministry may provide for the implementation of obligations arising from the EEA Agreement on the EU Korona Certificate. § 4A-2 Domestic use of the Korona certificate The Ministry may, where measures for the protection of infection would otherwise not be proportionate, provide that the measure shall not apply to those who can demonstrate vaccination against covid-19 by means of a corona certificate, undergo covid-19 based on an approved test or negative test for the virus SARS-CoV-2. The provisions on the sole accepted evidence of vaccination status, covid-19 and test results may only be determined where effective and safe verification is deemed necessary, where there is easy access to testing, and where the nature and conditions of the protection measure would not otherwise be disproportionate. A licence shall only be required if it is necessary to establish the identity of the licence holder. The presentation of a Korona certificate may not be made as a condition for access to public services or educational institutions, shops and shopping centres, training centres, or for access to health services or services related to personal care. Nor may it be made a condition for travelling in a public place, or for participating in public demonstrations or other indications of public opinion. Korona certificates cannot be set as a condition for visits to private homes, participation in religious ceremonies and cannot be used in employment. Corona certificate requirements may only be made in the context of the introduction of reliefs in the otherwise applicable disease control measures. No requirement for a Coronal Certificate may be made in the context of the introduction of new measures for the protection of infection. No discrimination may be granted on the grounds that they are unable to produce a corona certificate, unless such access is granted by law or by law. It is not allowed to require evidence in the form of a corona certificate from children under 16 years of age or persons who, for medical reasons or due to disability, are unable to carry out a vaccine or a covid-19 test. For the purposes of public or commercial activities, it shall be prohibited to require a certificate of corona where this does not result from the provisions of law, regulation or administrative action. Infringement of this provision is punished as an infringement under Section 8-1 of the Act. III The law applies from the time the King decides. The king may decide that the individual provisions of the law shall enter into force at different times. Part I of the Act shall be repealed six months after its entry into force.’;» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e2425	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 5 August 1994 55 on the protection against communicable diseases is amended as follows: new Chapter 4A is replaced by the following: [[Infection protection law]] 4A Temporary provisions on the Korona Certificate § 4A-1 Korona Certificate The Korona Certificate shall, in accordance with a single European technical framework, demonstrate that a person has been vaccinated against covid-19, has undergone covid-19 based on validated test or test results for SARS-CoV-2. The Ministry may provide for the implementation of obligations arising from the EEA Agreement on the EU Korona Certificate. § 4A-2 The use of the corona certificate by the Ministry of the Interior may, where other infectious diseases measures would not be proportionate, provide that the measure shall not apply to those who can demonstrate vaccination against covid-19 by means of a corona certificate, undergo covid-19 based on an approved test or negative test for the virus SARS-CoV-2. The provisions on the sole accepted evidence of vaccination status, covid-19 and test results may only be determined where effective and safe verification is deemed necessary, where there is easy access to testing, and where the nature and conditions of the protection measure would not otherwise be disproportionate. A licence shall only be required if it is necessary to establish the identity of the licence holder. The presentation of a Korona certificate may not be made as a condition for access to public services or educational institutions or shops and shopping centres. Nor may it be made a condition for travelling in a public place, or for participating in public demonstrations or other indications of public opinion. Korona certificates cannot be set as a condition for visits to private homes, participation in religious ceremonies and cannot be used in employment. Corona certificate requirements may only be made in the context of the introduction of reliefs in the otherwise applicable disease control measures. No requirement for a Coronal Certificate may be made in the context of the introduction of new measures for the protection of infection. No discrimination may be granted on the grounds that they are unable to produce a corona certificate, unless such access is granted by law or by law. It is not allowed to require evidence in the form of a corona certificate from children under 16 years of age or persons who, for medical reasons or due to disability, are unable to carry out a vaccine or a covid-19 test. For the purposes of public or commercial activities, it shall be prohibited to require a certificate of corona where this does not result from the provisions of law, regulation or administrative action. Infringement of this provision is punished as an infringement under Section 8-1 of the Act. III The Law applies from the time the King decides. The king may decide that the individual provisions of the law shall enter into force at different times. Part I of the Act shall be repealed six months after its entry into force.’;» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The centre party has notified subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e2499	It's going to vote first on A I and III. The Central Party and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e2515	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e2520	We're correcting the number of votes. The result is that 73 representatives voted in favour of the Committee's position and 13 voted against. – Thus the setting is consonant. It's voted on A.II.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e2533	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Central Party and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e2547	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e2561	The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e2580	All in all, seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Åsmund Aukrust on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment proposal No 2, from Ketil Kjeseth on behalf of the Right, Left and Christian People's Party the proposals No 3-6, from Terje Halleland on behalf of the Progress Party proposal No 7, from Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Section 3 shall be replaced by the following: § 3 2030 Climate targets The objective shall be to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 70 per cent from the level of emissions in the 1990 reference year.» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e2612	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3–6, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the harmonisation of Norwegian calculation methods for climate targets and greenhouse gas emissions with the EU, so that the commitments for Norwegian and European businesses are the same.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the use of quota flexibility when, after a cost-benefit analysis, it is more profitable than implementing climate action in Norway.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to document each and every climate action as a justification, how large the emissions will be.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to follow the principle of prioritising the measures giving the lowest possible price to the greatest possible extent in the implementation of climate policy.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e2644	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘point (c) of the second paragraph of Section 6 is replaced by the following: c) an overview that makes sectorial emission paths visible in the ETS and non-quota sectors and the types of action that will be necessary to realise them.’;» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e2722	It is votted over A I § 3. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Central Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e2736	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Right, Left and Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 3 is replaced by the following: § 3 Climate targets for 2030 The objective shall be to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 50 and up to 55 per cent from the level of emissions in the reference year 1990.» The Central Party has announced its support for the proposal. The Labour Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e2774	The first sentence of the second paragraph of Section 4 and the first sentence of Section A II shall be deleted. The Progress Party and the Center Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e2788	The new letter e is added to the second paragraph of Section 6 above A I. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e2802	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e2812	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e2826	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e2845	A total of 21 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Else-May Norderhus, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Progress Party the proposals No 2-4, from Else-May Norderhus on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment the proposals No 5-8, from Else-May Norderhus on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 9-12, from Gisle Meininger Saudland on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the Centre Party the proposals No 13-19, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment proposal No 20, from Sandra Borch on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No 21, from Gisle Meininger Saudland on behalf of the Progress Party There is a vote on proposal No. 21, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to return to the Storting in future protection processes as a result of Meld. [[2020-2021]] St 29
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e2884	There is a vote on proposal No. 20, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide a comprehensive overview of the planned protection of land and sea/sea areas by 2030 and to put further such protection proposals in place until the overall overview is dealt with in the Stortinget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e2899	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 13-19, from the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals to extend the scope of the Nature Diversity Act to cover all Norwegian sea areas, including the whole of Norway’s economic zone.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to assume that the Nature Diversity Act is the law to be applied to ensure the overall protection of natural values in Norwegian sea areas.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that no new activity is undertaken in areas defined as particularly valuable and vulnerable areas of the management plans until they have been identified against the Marine Protection Plan.’ [[SVO]] Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that mineral extraction on the seabed is not opened until the natural values of the sea areas concerned have been identified and a network of protected areas has been established, in line with the recommendations of the Institute for the Exploration of the Sea.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a solution in the forthcoming nature agreement, which provides for effective and comprehensive protection of marine areas, and not for fragmented sector-based regulation.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to start its own protection processes for all the remaining areas included in the 2004 protection plan with the aim of completing them by 2027.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asked to speed up its efforts to identify the key areas that complement the 2004 protection plan to achieve 30 pst. the protection of Norwegian sea areas by 2030.’;» Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e2949	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 9-12, from the Progress Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to take account of the objections raised by Andøy and Senja municipalities and to end work on the establishment of a marine protection area in Andfjorden.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for a reduction in the proposed protection area of the LV in line with fisheries, economic development and major infrastructure construction measures.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for a thorough scientific review of established zero fishing areas and prohibited areas before the establishment of a pilot for marine protection intended to restore ecosystems and increase harvesting potential in the associated area.’;» Proposal No. 12 sounds: «The government asks the government to follow the objections of Inderøy and Steinkjer municipalities and to complete the work on the creation of a marine protection area in Børgin under the Nature Diversity Act § 39 for good.»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e2982	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to draw up clear and predictable driving rules for all economic operators operating in the protection areas and SVO areas. These driving rules shall also be adapted to new industrial activities and show who can have an activity where, when and how this is to be done.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e2997	There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to contribute to the setting of realistic objectives of protection in the UN’s new nature agreement, thereby contributing to the real protection of nature’.» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e3014	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6 and 8 from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to decide whether the Nature Diversity Act should apply in excess of 12 nautical miles.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to inform and involve the Storting when ambitions to protect nature are to be adopted on behalf of the nation of Norway in the international negotiations.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e3038	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2–4, from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to contribute to the setting of ambitious plans for the necessary protection of vulnerable nature both at land and at sea. The sustainable performance of activities in these vulnerable areas must be clearly identified.’» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that supervision is exercised in order to verify compliance with the driving rules in the protection areas and SVO areas.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an international protection registration system to be put in place so that all countries undertake to follow up the protection in the same way.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e3067	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Workers' Party and the Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that municipalities and business operators are well involved in all the protection processes mentioned in the Report. St. 29 [[2020-2021]] Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e3106	The Progress Party and the Center Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e3120	President! My voice was not registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e3125	We're correcting the number of votes. The result is that 62 representatives voted in favour of the Committee's position and 24 voted against. – Thus the setting is consonant.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e3137	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Margeret Hagerup on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The government is asked to submit a proposal to increase the general age limit in the country to 72 years, as it is in the Working Environment Act. The government is asked to assess the further increase in the age limits in working life to 75 years’» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘I In Law 21 December 1956 No. 1 on the age limits of public officials and others It shall be amended as follows: The title of the Act is replaced by the following: Act on Age Limits for State Employees and Others the fourth paragraph of Section 2 is replaced by the following: The person subject to this Act shall be obliged to resign at the first month of the change after the general age limit has been reached. The king may provide that, in exceptional cases, it may be decided that persons in certain positions with a lower age limit shall resign at the first month after the age limit for the post has been reached. Paragraph 3, first paragraph, first and second sentences shall be replaced by the following: The appointing authority may decide that an employee who still fulfils the requirements required by the post may continue in the post beyond the general age limit. If the King is engaged, such agreement may be given by the competent department. II In the law of 22 June 1962 No. 12 on a pension scheme for nurses is amended as follows: Chapter 3 is replaced by the following: Chapter 3. Age limits. Section 6 is replaced by the following: Persons covered by this Act are obliged to resign from the post at the first month of the change after the age of 70. III Entry into force The law shall come into force from the time of the king's judgment." Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up. The Greens and Reds have announced support for the vote. The left has announced support for the proposals. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e3245	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e3259	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e3381	It is first voted on A III § 4-1 eighth paragraph. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e3395	It goes over A the rest of III and other Roman numerals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e3405	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e3415	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e3442	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e3543	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to 3 lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e3550	I want to start by thanking the proposers for the matter. In our view, this case raises obvious fundamental issues that it is worth looking at. The matter is therefore the appointment of co- magistrates in the field of employment protection and the arrangement we have with the appointment of co- magistrates in these cases on a proposal from the parties and not on the basis of the principle of chance, which is otherwise the norm in the general courts. The representative’s proposal proposes to replace current practice by a random sample of co-judges from each of the specific labour-intensive selections. The transparency of the specific lifelong committees of judges is an important function. That's why no one wants to change these either. However, we believe, like the proposers, that there is reason to ask questions in the practice where the co-judgments are also drawn on a case-by-case basis on a proposal from the parties to the case. The independence and trust of the courts is one of the main principles of the rule of law. It should therefore not be sufficient to say that we have a system that works well today or to say that we are satisfied only with the constitutional and Conventional obligations. All of this is probably correct. The question should, however, be: are there elements of the current system that are suitable for creating uncertainty as to whether independence is adequately safeguarded? And is there in the extension of the alternatives that can deliver this in a more optimal way? If the answer to both of these questions is yes, it would be irresponsible not to ask for this to be investigated at least. The examples to which the proposers refer in their comments, including the fact that the LO systematically points out judges from its own associations, and that this affects their votes, give cause for concern. There is also reason to ask questions as to whether the parties may be at risk of pointing out their favorite judges at the expense of the rights of unorganised persons. I would also like to stress that our comments and our proposal for a decision on the matter are not due to the fact that we have concluded on these questions. So it may be that there are enough good arguments to keep the current system, and that these concerns do not turn out to be good enough. However, many important arguments have been raised against today's system, and similarity to the law is at least, in our view, too important a principle that one can germinate from this. That is why we do not now support decisions on legislative changes, but we believe that the proposal needs to be examined. With that, I take up the proposal on the right-hand side of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e3567	The representative Kristian Toning-Rise has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e3572	Today's system and law are practiced for a number of years. It is recognised and the Council of State confirms that it takes good account of independence, in its reply letter to the Committee, but also in a reply to written questions put by the Chairman of the Committee, Wiborg, on 1 March. I do not therefore need to repeat the reason for today's order from the pulpit today. What I would like to comment, however, is first of all quite a few statements from the Progress Party, from the proposers, in what is being said here. It must be a great burden for people who have served as co-judges, when documents in the Stortinget and probably later in the debate here from the Chair of the Stortinge promote claims that these persons have not acted independently. It's a dry diet. Fortunately, the Council of State rejects these claims, but I am considered when the case-rapporteur, Tonning Riise, just said that he bases these claims on the statement that there is cause for concern. What they're not so concerned about is that the NHO offers courses for fellow judges, while the LO, according to the head of the LO's legal department has written on the lawyer.no, has refused to train with judges because they believe it's a matter for the courts and not for the social partners. I would have liked representatives from the right to comment and acknowledge that. Then I have to say that I am very surprised at the constant changes in the view of the Right of this. I believe that the Council's letter of 1 March was very good, and I can subscribe to that text in its entirety. The letter of reply to the Committee is also good, but there is a small opening for a change in current practice at the end of that letter of reply, and I believe that there is a completely different opinion expressed by the members of the Committee when it is claimed that ‘a mechanism which is not suitable for creating uncertainty as to whether independence is adequately safeguarded’. I hope that the debate will clarify what is really the Right's view on this matter. With that, I would recommend the Committee's attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e3587	This is a matter which comes from a proposal for a representative which has been based on uncertainty as to whether one is completely independent in the courts of civil protection. I think it was a very nice post by the representative Tonning Riise here, who goes through the matter very well, and in a way points out that it might be necessary or right to look into how these things work, and whether there is reason to change something, but that you initially don't do it until you've figured it out. I believe it is quite fine, as the representative of Grande says, that there is no separate course running from the LO side. I think there must be such honesty in the whole thing that it would be extra wrong – and then it was at least right to raise these questions. The Progress Party proposes a change in the law that is about these things to be adjusted. Then I have mentioned it, and we subsidize what has been presented by the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e3598	The representative Bears Laabak has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e3603	Employment protection matters are demanding, and the treatment is laid down by law. What is crucial for the Centre Party is that the practice and the experience we have with today's system and today's law is that there are experienced and sensible people on both sides. There has been no great uprising around this. There has not been any need to change this for us in the past. It is very special that the Progress Party makes very clear claims that those who are here have not acted in substance. I noticed that the case rapporteur, Tonning Riise, said that he can't show that the concerns are there, as the Progress Party puts it, but that one has to figure it out. Yes, it was just to be lacking that in the case one did not have to investigate such a matter, but we cannot use resources on things that are not considered to be a problem. From 1977 there has been a practice in job protection under the Working Environment Act which was continued when they were transferred to the ordinary courts in 1981. It has been a long practice, and it is part of the Norwegian model that there is trust between the parties, and that the parties are responsible, knowledgeable and make the necessary adjustments. It has one in these cases, so the center party sees no need to change the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e3612	The purpose of the system is to ensure that the general courts have the necessary knowledge and expertise in the field of occupational safety. That's an important consideration. On the basis of today's rules, the court appoints co-judges in each case on a proposal from the parties to the case. The co-judgments shall assess and rule on the case on an independent basis. It is very important to stress that the rules of the Court of Justice on stability also apply to the labour-intensive co-judgments. So there are the same requirements for objectivity and neutrality for the co-judgments as for other judges. The system of co-judges is well established, and my assessment has been that it works mainly as it should. At the same time, the government believes that it is central that the Court of Justice and the procedures for the appointment of judges have confidence both in the users of the Court and in society in general. As others have pointed out, my answers to the committee have been somewhat more conservative than that we should explore possible alternatives. At the same time it's like conservatively trying to see if there's anything that can be improved, but then it's important to do it in a proper and thorough way, through a good investigation. We have to be clear that there may be improvement points, and I do not exclude that there may be reason to consider whether there are other and better ways to point out which fellow judges are going to serve in each case. At the same time, the matter raises some important fundamental questions. The government believes that we need to have a thorough investigation – we need to have a good dialogue with the social partners – before any proposals for changes to the Working Environment Act should be made in this area, but we naturally follow up the decision promoted by the government parties in Stortinget. Finally, in this case, questions have also been raised about today's system in line with Conventional requirements for the independence of the courts, and there is evidence that Norway has been sued before the Council of Europe's Social Law Committee, claiming a breach of the European Social Charter. The government assumes that today's legislation is consistent with the country's international legal obligations, and then we await the evaluations and conclusion of the social justice committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e3629	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e3635	My question was really about what the Council of State concluded, where he concluded that today's practice is in line with and takes care of constitutional and Conventional requirements for the independence of the courts. Then my question is, who in the Right should we listen to to know what the Right really means? For the Council of State, one thing is said, while others from the Right insinuate that one becomes alarmed, that what is being promoted in the aforementioned investigation by a law firm related to matters in Oslo District Court, gives cause for concern, and that this gives reason to consider other ways of appointing co- magistrates in these cases. Some members of the Committee insinuate that the current system is not independent enough. Does the Council of State mean that we should listen to the Council of State or to the case rapporteur from the Right in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e3640	By principle, I think everyone should listen to me constantly, in all things, but unfortunately the reality is not rigged. The serious answer is: first, of course, the government's starting point is that what we are doing, and what is today's system, is in line with the European Social Charter. But as I said, when there is one thing there, of course, we have to make reservations or at least wait for it. I guess I don't see that there's really a very big gap between what I as the government council and what the government parties have said here, because the government parties on the Stortinget are also quite clear that accusing individuals of not dealing with the court's requirements for stability, etc. We don't. It is clear that when you problem this, you also have to be open to the environments that have problematised it. But the conclusion is relatively moderate. The conclusion is that we should evaluate this, investigate and look at it, and then I have described how I believe that process should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e3649	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e3654	There is a need to correct the impression somewhat after representatives from the Labour Party and the Centre have disputed with claims that one insinuates the ininflation of the courts. No one's done that. What we have said is that one has to take seriously the signals that are coming, the fact that this organisation has chosen to complain to Norway before the Council of Europe's Social Law Committee, and not least the fact that our courts are completely dependent on trust – always, all the time – in the way these procedures are done, and the fact that the investigation by the Quale Lawyers in 2019 also sees question marks in the processes for this. There are no questions about individual decisions that the courts have taken, there is no doubt about the job that some of the co-judges have done when they were put to it, this is about. It's about a system that has to have trust and function over time. I mean, both the Center Party and the Labour Party are grossly sinning when they try to turn this debate into something they're not, that's a matter of simple decisions made by single judges. It's a question of how our courts work best, having the highest possible trust among all parties all the time, always. Then the Labour Party and the Centre are trying to run, a kind of caricature of the matter is really about, and which I, like the representative Laabak, thought the Tonning Riise representative had done fine. That is the starting point for us to conclude today with the plurality: this should be done more, because there is one important principle that the Stortinget that the institution should be aware of is that our courts always have full confidence among all actors who might want to benefit from them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e3663	The representative of Arild Grande is trying to give the impression that my speech and our comments on this matter were going to be in stark contrast to the statements and responses of the Council of State to the Committee. I don't think there's any reason either, so it's just to point out the obvious, that our proposal for a decision on the matter is an investigation proposal. There is no conclusion to the concerns that both the proposers and, in part, I also explained in my post instead. The letter from the Council of State suggests that today's system takes care of our constitutional and Conventional obligations. And of course, we're also going to think about that. It would be alarming if we were to assume that today's system is not fulfilling our international obligations. Of course we'll take that into account. The question, which I also explained in my previous post, is: is there any way that this can be done in a more optimal way? Is there any thing about today's system that is suitable for asking questions about? I've replied that yes, I think it is. So then it's worth investigating and looking at it, precisely because equality for law is such an important principle that if there's reason to ask questions about it, it would be irresponsible not to say that we should look at it more closely. This is not the first time this topic has been discussed in a public debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e3670	I'm just going to comment on the attempt of the Progress Party to claim something other than what they say in their comments, when you say that you don't insinuate anything. I can quote from the comments of the Progress Party on this matter, where, first of all, we write: ‘Having independent courts is important for legal certainty, but also for public confidence in the independence of the courts. The current system for dealing with job protection matters violates this principle.» It's a pretty strong insinuation. The second thing that they write is: ‘These members also refer to the study by Kvale Law Firm in 2019, where it turned out that the LO points out with judges from its own associations and that this affects their vote in favour of the LO.’ ‘where it turned out’ is the claim. [[...]] So they are doing well for this study, presenting it in large-scale documents as a claim that is promoted insinuating – more than insinuating – that fellow judges have been biased. It's a little expensive to make such claims, and when you can't stand for it on the Stockholm Chair, you should have drawn it. So far no one has commented on the fact that NHO is schooling with judges. There is no problem at all by the right parties, but it should be very problematic that there should be an association, as it is said, between the co-judges and their membership of any association. It is presented as a truth, as if there should be something that affects their way of dealing with matters. That, I think, is a fairly selective way of talking about such an important question of principle. Should it be very problematic with the undocumented claims you make, I wonder what they think about the documented claims that NHO is schooling with judges, and what consequences it may have for influencing matters. I believe that the system, the time, all the experience, and what the Council of State actually confirms, has shown that there is nothing to suggest that fellow judges appointed by any of the social partners have influenced their views, either from an employer's or employee's perspective. But it is being promoted here, and it is very serious. I am so pleased that the proposals of the Progress Party are rejected, but I am deeply concerned that the right parties are also able to find in this case a common agreement which may have consequences for the courts and independence through the claims and the insinuations that come. With this I will again recommend the setting of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e3693	The representative of Grande has a relatively special way to argue when he first takes a stand and challenges the bourgeois parties on the basis that he thinks it is completely irrelevant to the case. He has to decide which side of the table to sit on, at least, when an attempt is made to have a neat debate. So Grande does one more thing in his article. He refers to the comments from the Progress Party in the matter that confirm what I said in my previous post, namely that there is a system critique in this which is the starting point for the position that we are landing today, a number of that one should deal with these issues further, because it is not necessarily an individual matter, but because the instability and procedures of the courts are being questioned. It's probably for the Workers' Party to dismiss all doubts. It may also prove that this is the basis for doing so. On the other hand, the Labour Party goes straight into the trap when one does not take seriously the doubts of actors other than the growing majority today, who actually point to these problems. A just dismisses the problem because a person does not dare challenge the LO and the organized working life – a normal procedure for the Labour Party, but does not have the capacity to strengthen trust in the courts, which are challenged not by the Progress Party, not by the majority in this Chamber, but by those who operate in Norwegian working life themselves. If you are going to have a clean, decent and safe Norwegian working life, for which the Labour Party often makes itself a spokesperson, you should take the actors operating there more seriously. And we're going to do that when we put this equation in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e3702	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 28.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e3719	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e3726	Now children and young people have finally received their own cultural message. The aim of the Communication is to facilitate access for all children and young people – irrespective of their place of residence, economy, function and social and ethnic background – to a wide and diverse cultural life and the ability to participate, create, learn and master themselves. The communication has been discussed in the Family and Culture Committee, and I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation. It has also been in the Education and Research Committee for its opinion, and we have government councils from both departments represented in the debate. With the Communication, the Government presents for the first time the field of child and youth culture as an overall policy area at national level and aims to ensure that art and culture aimed at children and young people are also at their premise. We believe this is the right procedure for such a message, as the title describes – Experience, creation, parts – Art and culture for, with and by children and young people. It brings with it important input from thousands of children and young people who have submitted their input into the BUSINESS report, which provides valuable reports from the target audience and tells how they themselves feel that art and culture are directed at them. We believe that the voice of children and young people is evident in this message. One of the most obvious recordings has been that they want to be involved and decide when it comes to designing cultural offerings directed at them. This has been highlighted in the message. Participation is necessary in order for art and culture to mean something for children and young people. It should be something they recognize in and seem important. Art shall be a form of expression that they can acquire. The right of children and young people to participate is enshrined in the Municipal Law and in the Law on Planning and Building. It is also enshrined in the Constitution, the Children's Convention and other UN conventions. This government wants to facilitate this and has also announced that there will be an arena where you can share experiences on the follow-up to this message. That this point about the participation of children and young people in culture that is targeting them was probably not prepared for many, but here the committee is somewhat divided. We are a majority who believe this is important. Some parties will probably argue that the concept of children and the participation of young people violates some much more important principles, namely the freedom and peculiarity of art. I think that must be a misinterpretation, for what is art, and what is its peculiarity, if not an expression of human emotions and reflections? This is what this communication wants children and young people to participate in. Art and cultural activities are unique because they have an inclusive potential. Participation in artistic and cultural activities contributes to building social communities and identity for children and young people. That's why everyone has to experience art and culture and have equal opportunities to participate in growth. Local organisation is very important. Voluntary cultural life, with leisure clubs, the UKM, the School of Culture, cultural halls and libraries, are all examples of arenas where children and young people get their first meeting with art and culture. We believe that children and young people throughout the country should receive an offer of art and culture that reflects the diversity in which they live. The State shall contribute to a free and independent cultural life, with a view to giving more people access to a diversity of top-quality artistic and cultural expressions. The instruments shall ensure that art is created and disseminated in which children and young people are familiar. To this end, the Culture Council, the Norwegian Film Institute and the Culture Tank, which manages the Culture Fund, the Film Fund and funds for the cultural school system, are entrusted with the task of cooperating more closely on the efforts of the target groups of children and young people. Interaction and coordination of resources are important in order to achieve the objectives set for the notification. The cultural concept shall perform tasks as a national coordinating body for the DPS system and shall be followed up in cooperation with the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Knowledge. We believe that the cultural concept has such an important mandate in the follow-up to the communication that it is simply not appropriate to talk about reorganization at that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e3754	For the Workers' Party, the aim of state cultural policy is to ensure that everyone, regardless of background, where you live in the country, the size of your wallet and age, gets to experience, enjoy and practice high-quality art and culture. That's not what the case rapporteur said, that most children's first meeting with art and culture is the UKM or the School of Culture. There are some children's first meeting with culture, but unfortunately, too few people today meet culture through a place in the School of Culture. UKM is not for everyone either. For the Workers' Party, this is why we have the aim of strengthening and expanding our policies. That is why, in our time, we introduced the universal arrangements to ensure that everyone, where all children are hit, gets a taste of art and culture early on. The cultural school bag makes every child, no matter what family you come from, get the meeting with the art and culture, a taste of what it means. Then you choose what you like, fall for and want to pursue later, but that everyone gets a basic level of knowledge about and a meeting with art and culture, we think is hugely important. There are too large class divisions in culture in Norway today, based on who you are, the size of the wallet and the family you have. It is a democratic problem, and it must help the state cultural policy to build up. We had been looking forward to a comprehensive message of child and youth culture with ambitions and efforts to get more children and young people to enjoy and contribute to high-quality art and culture. Unfortunately, we must say that this message merges into the range of many other messages from this government. It has a clear description of the situation, but it is left out of action that can help more children and young people to actually participate. On the contrary, the majority shall be investigated, it shall be facilitated and assessed — after eight years of right-wing governance. Responsibility for following up most of what is said is the objectives of cultural policy for children and young people added to municipalities. At the same time, we know that the money is not coming. One has a municipal economy that is scant, and because the responsibility is pushed on the individual municipality, these kinds of differences arise in what is offered in art and culture. We also believe that the role of voluntary cultural life in children and young people, but also in the professional arts and culture field, is absent from the notification. As I said, we want to strengthen state cultural policy. You have to spend more money on art and culture. We want to strengthen and further develop the arrangements that give everyone a taste of art and culture. The cultural carrier, the cultural school bag and the cultural walking stick are examples of this. We need to get rid of the queues in the Culture School. There has been a debate about the cultural school bag in this setting, and one of the things we expected in a child and youth culture report was that one went through and evaluated how the development and supply of the cultural school bag has become. That's not happening. As the rapporteur said, several proposals deal with the organisation of the cultural school bag and other things. I listened to the case rapporteur, who said that it is not now appropriate with an evaluation and a change, but the opposition in the Stortinget has asked for a thorough evaluation and review of the organisation of the cultural idea and what kind of effect it has on the offer through the cultural school bag. We've been asking for it for six years, but we haven't got it. Now we take the matter into our own hands, and as the setting says, you can be sure that if there is a Workers' Party-led red-green government after the election, this is one of the things we're going to deal with. Then I will report that in an incursion the Workers' Party is inside a note and a proposal we're going out of. The note on page 17 of the first column is going out, and then we're going out of proposal No. 1, under a proposal from the minority on page 25 of the vote. That proposal should therefore be confined to the Central Party and the UK. I'm addressing proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e3779	The representative Anette Trettebergstien has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e3784	We treat for the first time a cultural message for children and young people – it is historic. Some things we live by, other things we live for, and cultural experiences are part of what enriches our lives and is part of and makes us human. The message includes a lot of themes, and unfortunately that's not all you can get into during an article, but I want to focus on a couple of the things that are important to the Progress Party. Voluntary activities, both organised and unorganised, in which children and young people participate, are an important support for growth. It contributes to both physical and mental activity, socialisation, mastery experiences and much more. That is why I am, among other things, pleased that a Joint Committee once again calls on the Government to engage in dialogue with the KS and LNU with a view to ensuring that children’s and youth organisations are given access to schools and other public buildings locally, and that such lending is non-discriminatory. We also hope that this will help to ensure that more children’s and youth organisations have access to free premises around them. I would also like to commend initiatives like the leisure card and the leisure statement, which allow more people to participate in both leisure and cultural experiences, regardless of the economy and the kind of family they come from. This is an initiative on which the Progress Party supports and is a follower. The pilot scheme of leisure cards now in place in a number of municipalities has the aim of later being extended to a national scheme after experience has been gained. The Progress Party will also show that there are many fires and courageous entrepreneurs who are set up in the field of cultural innovation and who have the potential to grow far beyond the borders of the country, such as the United States. Easy Play from Asker, but who experience that one is often placed on the sideline of such initiatives as the national schemes I now mentioned. We therefore also have comments in our position asking that all actors be included in such schemes, including private actors who have shown both passion and innovation in the cultural sector with good concepts. A topic that is difficult to get out of when we talk about volunteering is VAT compensation. I am pleased that every year you have increased the pot so that it will be in line with the level of application that has been received. The Progress Party believes that VAT compensation schemes need to be further strengthened. We have also adopted amendments to our party programme which call for a substantial strengthening of these arrangements, and we will come back with our own proposals on this in the next big session. The Progress Party was in its time one of the initiators of the Cultural School Bag. We believe it is of great value to children and young people. It is a national system to have a local anchorage. A system of cultural providers, schools and consultants has also been developed, but also those who are involved and ensure that the content is organised, so that we get a diversity and good quality of what is offered as part of the cultural school system, whether it is Norwegian Scene Art Use or others. The cultural idea has also been mentioned in the debate so far, and there have been many contributions to the communication on how the organisation of this sector can be made more appropriate. For the Progress Party too, it has been important in both this sector and other sectors to combat what we see as unnecessary administration, bureaucracy and double governance. In the light of this and the recordings that have been made, we have also made proposals to put a stop to the idea of culture, because we believe that it will provide more appropriate organisation and also reduce the administration of the cultural sector. Then I hear that we're adopting a proposal from the left to evaluate the cultural idea. However, the Progress Party believes that this principle decision should be taken now, in order to allow time for tidy processes of cultural change, rather than having the uncertainty hanging over and carrying out an evaluation that we experience more as a training and shifting of the issue. We will therefore only vote in favour of our proposal, and call on all the other parties to support this, so that this explanation of principle is now taken. Finally, I would like to mention something else in this connection that I am very pleased to have entered the message, namely secure digital growth. More and more of the time for children and young people, and as far as we adults are concerned, is in the digital space, and I am glad that this is also mentioned in the message and that the arenas for children and young people are safe and that this will be taken care of in the years to come. I would also like to raise the proposal of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e3809	The representative of Himanshu Gulati has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e3814	We in the Center Party really hope that child and youth culture will be given a boost as a result of this message, even if we believe it has too few ambitions, and even if it does not take good care of the professional part of childhood and youth culture. The government proposes several ways to strengthen, support and facilitate the field of children and culture that makes sense to us, but many other proposals have even weaker and less binding formulations, which is a weakness in terms of realization. The same must be said that this Communication does not propose any major financial strengthening to finance the proposed actions, in line with all other communications provided by the Government in this field. The municipalities get the burden as usual, so for the municipalities we hope that there will be a change of government, so that the local authorities' framework will be increased with an active centre party at the rudder. Fortunately, at any rate, an overall committee ensures that the current DCS system is to be continued and that the aim of the cultural school bag is to continue to contribute to the provision of a professional arts and culture offer to students. It's the Center Party satisfied with that. What we're much less satisfied with is that art's self-esteem has gained so low status and is seen most as a means of achieving the government's goal of relevance and representativeness. The professional arts and culture field and those who work on it are otherwise given too little space in the message. The same applies to voluntary cultural life, where the notification has no analysis, and where more proposals should be made with great benefit to strengthen voluntary involvement and participation in child and youth leisure activities. However, such an analysis would probably point out that the government does not yet want to meet the unisonary demands of volunteering for full VAT compensation for non-governmental organisations, and it would make it apparent that in recent years the government has reduced its contribution to the decentralised cultural building scheme in order to finance its own gift-enhancing scheme. Last week, I met several actors who are calling out a great warning about the poor facilities around for the exercise of art and culture, and the size of the maintenance work on cultural houses. Then I got a good insight into the mapping of cultural houses with which the Cultural Alliance is working, and that was not funny information. It's nice that the government at least supports that mapping, even though it will find out how accomplices they are that children and young people get so few suitable spaces to practice art and culture all around our country. Otherwise, the Central Party supports the vision of a cultural school for everyone, and we want this to continue to be regulated by the Education Act. The cultural school is incredibly important for the cultural life of our communities and for the preservation of a number of artistic and cultural traditions also locally. At Notodden we have a good cultural school offer within the traditional disciplines, but also an offer within Hardingfele, an instrument that has been strong in the area for hundreds of years. We have a very good and wide singer offer in guitar training, with both one of the country's leading metal guitarists and one of the country's best blues guitarists in the teacher's staff. This type of teacher quality gives good recruitment within these genres, which have become part of the identity of my home municipality, which houses the Notodden Blues Festival, and which was actually the first place MTV visited in Norway – then to meet one of the big pioneer bands in black metal, Emperor, where one of the members is now a school teacher. It is therefore important that the objective of high quality, both culturally and educationally, in the cultural school does not mean that we are given too strict national requirements for formal qualifications. What may most disappoint us in the Central Party with the message is that the government does not choose to make a thorough assessment of the scheme with the Cultural Thought, but rather gives it more tasks and only determines its role and position without discussing it with the people involved in the cultural field or the Stortinget. We in the Centre Party are very sceptical about the way cultural policy is managed and believe that we need an evaluation of the cultural idea and an investigation of alternative organisation of the cultural school bag. In comments, we in the Centre Party also question the organisation of the Cultural Council and its tasks. We will also discuss this later today, in a case where there is a proposal to divide the Council of Culture into two and to set up a separate Directorate. The latter is not a policy for which the Centre Party is ready, but we are definitely ready to look at the organisation and instruments ahead. Otherwise, in comments, we in the Centre Party show how important it is for children and young people that we have a read-only strategy, that we establish the Music Farm, and that we are in charge of the cultural sustainability. Together with SV, we propose a commitment to cooperation between the state, the municipality and the sport to reduce the cost of participation there, since it is time to limit parts of the child rights exclusion where there is a great deal of purchase of equipment and collections, etc., and with which unfortunately not all children have the same wallet to pay. This challenge also applies within the voluntary organisations of children and young people, which we in the Centre are planning to follow closely up in the future. So I'm going to deal with the proposal that we have with SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e3835	The representative of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e3840	In the last year, we have been serious about the importance of the Community's cultural arenas for all of us, and especially for children and young people. When the leisure club was closed, many youths lost a place to do something meaningful together. Since we could not play in the corps or sing in the choir as usual, many lost an important community around them. Being able to experience or express something meaningful in common is something quite fundamental, a good thing in our lives, which cultural life has given us. Therefore, SV uses the treatment of the communication of child and youth culture to promote a number of proposals to expand the culture’s core wall of provision for children and young people. The government, on the other hand, has provided a message that is marked by many great words, but no great boost for the culture of children and young people. On the other hand, what we have received from the Left in the Ministry of Culture is a violation of the principle of arm's length distance by setting political objectives and expectations to the artistic choices of free actors. They have brought about a historical deterioration in the cultural school system, where art is to be produced according to predefined user needs and where there is no longer to be a goal of a professional offer of art to children and young people in the school system. This is the result of allowing the cultural idea to take over and take over the cultural offer for children and young people — and its policy — without a proper investigation and evaluation of the organisation of the cultural school bag. Fortunately, Stortinget insists that students continue to receive a professional offer of art and culture. The Progress Party should really give a majority to the proposal to investigate the alternative organisation of the cultural school bag. There is much more that we should be doing when we are first to chisel out the policy of providing art and culture to high-quality children and young people. We in SV will give priority to the cultural base wall, especially for children and young people, in a new cultural promise. It is about giving all children and young people a rich and varied, high-quality cultural life regardless of their parents ’ wallet or address. When we turn off 1 pst. Of the state budget for cultural purposes, it allows us to expand and develop the offer on a completely different scale than what we see the government operating within here. Here are four examples: The first is the cultural school. SV believes it is time to abolish the class distinction in the cultural school, for the cultural school is a fantastic offer both in terms of education and cultural life, but there are far too high thresholds to participate when the price of a cultural school place can be on many thousands of copies, and when thousands are in line for space. That is why we are proposing a stepping-up plan for free cultural school space and several places. In our alternative budget, we have set at 200 million. kr for this, which gives both free cultural schools for all today's students and about 7,000 new places. The other is recreational clubs. SV believes that all children and young people should be offered open and free meeting places. Leisure clubs and youth homes are also part of the cultural base wall, but perhaps the most vulnerable stone in the wall because there is almost no national policy for this offer. That is why we want to legislate and introduce a grant scheme. The third is library. Culture and knowledge are disseminated to all, regardless of background, in the libraries, and it is particularly important for children and young people. Therefore, SV will have a new national library promise with funding for core tasks in the public libraries, and we will have guidelines for good school libraries across the country. The fourth is the freedom of culture. Voluntary cultural life is essential for the availability of local cultural services, and it is particularly important for children and young people, including young people. as the Community arena. 1.4 million Nordics are active participants in voluntary cultural life, yet this is a part of cultural life that has really suffered during the coronary crisis, due to a lack of support. SV proposes full and regulated VAT compensation, we propose a clean-up of the tipping agents that will provide cultural freedom of 200 million. kr more this year, and we propose action to secure suitable premises for corps and choirs and others throughout the country – in total a boost to the culture of children and youth as monks, by expanding the cultural base for the many. Then I take up the SV's suggestion.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e3863	The representative Freddy André Supreme Court has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e3869	So finally, this is the day when we're going to deal with the big message about art and culture for, with and by children and young people. It's high time, and I'm glad that I'm part of a government that's submitting such a message for the first time. Children and young people deserve art and culture of at least as high quality as adults. Of course, it's worth noting that the Left has two government councils in the Chamber here today when we discuss this message. It says a little bit about what kind of weighting left gives to this field. Culture and consciousness are obviously interrelated. We remember our first cinema visit. Some of us remember the theater visits. I remember the Christmas performance at the National Theatre, Traveling to the Christmas star, as if it were yesterday. I remember circus – Circus Berny called it that time, closed in 1979. But for my part, I may remember very well – and it is possible that the president can share my experiences of this here – the visit to the People's Library in Fredrikstad, which was far ahead of Sarpsborg in the construction of a monumental building, with the interactive visit. I'm not saying this to create the impression of some kind of early formation in me -- Donald probably made a bigger impression than Astrid Lindgren -- but it says something about memories being created in culture, and they format us as human beings. We are pleased that the message specifically takes on the fact that children and young people will experience art and culture on their own premises. That means that it should be made for them, and that they should be part of the art and culture that is created. They're supposed to be able to get to know each other and get involved. It is also a strength in the message that it so clearly looks at and analyses what children and young people are concerned about in their everyday lives and their lives. Art and culture must relate to this. Art and culture cannot and must not be a privilege. It should be for us all and all children and young people. Joint experiences will create community and cohesion in our society. Therefore, we are pleased with all the inclusion and community arrangements that are provided for in this Communication, but also in related actions and arrangements around it. Here, institutions, organisations, municipalities and county councils have every opportunity to create a broad community in cultural experiences for children and young people. They must create a cooperation capable of facilitating such a community. That's the way messages are often done – it's not the way to present a finished package, funded by Stortinget. It is also a clear strength for the message that it addresses the digital lives of children and young people and how art and culture must also be present in this area in order to meet them in their everyday lives. We have to make sure that our children have safe experiences on these digital surfaces. The Left therefore supports the government's desire to develop a separate strategy for a secure digital growth. 13 years ago, I wrote a book that covered children and privacy. So it was the Children's Convention. I then had a conversation with the Children's Ombudsman to hear what his opinion was about Article 16, which protects against unlawful attacks against the honor and reputation of children. The Children's Ombudsman's response says something about the fact that we have moved far in this field. He said that for his part he was more concerned with Article 12 that children could say their opinion and be heard. That's obviously right, but today we're inside a completely different field. A challenge for children and young people is that they hardly see themselves in art. It shouldn't be like that. Art and culture build societies, and young people should be allowed to participate in this building process. Only that way can they recognize themselves in the house we build together. We are therefore particularly pleased with the measures proposed by the government in the Communication to ensure the participation and involvement of children and young people in all parts of cultural life. They're going to share in it like everybody else. The ambitions of the government in this communication on behalf of children and young people's participation and involvement in art and culture are what we fully support. We are confident that this communication provides a steady basis for all the further work to be done in the future in the field of art and culture for children and young people. Young people must have the freedom and the opportunity to participate in what creates the great collective vi to experience, create and share.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e3888	Finally, we have received our own report on the culture of children and young people in our country, and it is especially gratifying that more than a thousand children and young people throughout the country have been involved in it. The aim of the Communication is to promote art and culture for, with and by children and young people, and there are in particular four themes that are raised: participation, equal opportunities for participation, a relevant and representative art and cultural offer and, in particular, interaction and cooperation. We in the Christian People's Party believe that children and young people deserve a wide and diverse and high-quality offer of art and culture, and therefore we are so pleased that we now – for the first time in history – present our own message with a comprehensive policy on art and culture for, from and to, this very group. Involvement is necessary for art and culture to mean something to young people, and for there to be something they recognize in, which they seem to be important. Therefore, it is important that the policy we pursue in this field is primarily on their premises. Then we adults have a responsibility to be the initiators of all children and young people, and that both artists, institutions, institutions and businesses on the cultural budget prioritise this involvement in their work. We will facilitate dialogue between cultural institutions with them to develop new methods of dissemination and to provide more services adapted to different age groups. We in the Christian People's Party are burning for volunteering, and the volunteer organizations are helping to provide variety and opportunities for hundreds of thousands of children and young people throughout Norway. Whether you're interested in games, sports, outdoors or religious life, in Norway we have a civil society that gives you the opportunity to live out your life as you want it. We need strong organisations that have local ties all over the country. Therefore, it is important that organisations have the best possible prerequisites for success. The basic foundations for the financial security of organisations are divided. The basic support provides the basis for strong central organisations, and Freefonds provide local laws with the opportunity to provide services in the different municipalities. In order for organisations to grow, we rely on both schemes to be predictable and to cover the real costs. That is why the Christian People's Party adopted 20 pst. increase in basic support at its national meeting, and we will work for that in the future. I am pleased that the government with the Christian People's Party will strengthen the Free Foundation and evaluate a new model of the facility on the Free Fund schemes that contributes to simplification and broad participation. We know that many children's and youth organisations have had a hard time during the coronary apathy. We share their concern about how to rebuild, how to re-recruit and re-recruit as we open up. Over 10 B.C.E. kr has gone to culture, sport and volunteering under the corona, and the government will continue to work to get children's and youth culture and volunteering on its feet. We therefore want close dialogue with stakeholders on how best to facilitate this. The leisure and leisure cards also contribute to the participation of more people in cultural life. For the Christian People's Party, it is very important that all children and young people be able to participate in leisure activities with peers, regardless of the size of their parents' wallet or how much resources they have to follow up from home. Absence from leisure activities can hinder the development and participation of children and young people in society, and it can also pose a risk of being excluded from working and social life as an adult. The leisure card is an important work to give children and young people equal opportunities to develop with others, to make new friends, to be included, to have mastery and to have fine experiences. This will also give everyone an opportunity to participate in cultural life. In the state budget for 2021, it's set at nearly 200 million. kr for the continuation and extension of the test project with a national leisure card scheme, and we look forward to this being rolled out too fully. With this message, we facilitate the development of children and young people by participating in cultural activities and leisure activities and organising work that they seem to be interesting, as they seem to be fun. We in the Christian People's Party want a rich diversity of cultural and leisure activities across the country, so that children and young people can develop and be creative and have a good childhood and youth. I believe that we are doing well in this message.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e3907	This is a historic day. For the first time, a government has provided a big message that deals with art and culture for, with and by children and young people. We do this because we believe that children and young people deserve an artistic and cultural offer of the same quality as adults do. Children and young people will experience the art and culture created for them, who involve them, and in which they can participate. This is a message that highlights both the concerns of children and young people and points to the importance of ensuring a sound child and youth culture policy for the future. Participation in art and culture contributes to building social communities and identity for children and young people. The UN Convention stresses that children are entitled ‘to participate freely in cultural and artistic activities’. All children and young people shall have equal opportunities to experience art and culture and to participate in artistic and cultural activities through growth. The state instruments, such as the Free Fund, the leisure card and inclusion in the cultural life scheme, will contribute to this, but we also rely on close cooperation with the actors in the field, the municipalities and the county municipalities. Interaction and coordination are central to the best possible provision of art and culture for children and young people. This message is made in close cooperation between the Minister of Knowledge and me – both because the cultural school is a central theme, and also because we work together on a unique scheme, namely the cultural school bag. Because it's an arena where all children and young people can have equal opportunities to experience professional art and culture, it's in school. However, the functioning of the scheme requires equivalent and structured cooperation and interaction between the cultural sector and the education sector. That's why we have the Culture idea, which is going to help make the cultural school bag an even better arrangement for children and young people, for artists and for everyone working with the DKS around the country. In addition, the Communication has highlighted tasks in the field of child and youth culture that need to be addressed. We have made use of funds for digital efforts to contribute to up-to-date tools that communicate on young people’s premises and to a pilot project to integrate children’s and young people’s culture into municipal planning. When we have a staff working with the arts and culture of children and young people, who are in close dialogue with the municipal sector, the county councils, the children's and youth organisations, and not least children and young people themselves, it is also quite natural to use the Culture idea to strengthen the work of children and young people outside the DCS. The Communication also proposes measures to ensure better coordination with regard to the digital life of children and young people. Today, an increasing proportion of the lives of children and young people are on, or integrated with, digital platforms. It is therefore necessary for the authorities to have coordinated efforts to secure our children on these surfaces. We want to achieve this by providing a national strategy for secure digital growth. Children and young people have repeatedly stated that they want to be listened to in the design of the arts and culture offer. A report from the Youth Freedom Council says it is a major challenge that young people do not see themselves represented in art. Art and culture are thus restricted to too few. This is a major problem, because culture is an expression of community-building power, and for young people it should be as natural to express oneself through art as it is for adults. In the Communication, the Government therefore proposes measures to involve children and young people, to be in dialogue with them and to involve them in all parts of cultural life. This should not be at the expense of artistic freedom or the principle of arm's length distance, but should be a measure to ensure that we know the group we're trying to reach. This should be in everyone's interest, because if we are to create an artistic and cultural offer that is relevant and representative of children and young people, we need to talk to them. We do not believe that children and young people should be given what they want at all times. The point is, in order to get there, we have to know their reality, what hits them, and what they're concerned about. The opposition points to a lack of ambition in the message. I think we have quite clear ambitions. We want children and young people to have equal opportunities to experience art and culture. We want children and young people to be listened to. We want the arts and culture offer to be relevant and representative. We aim to improve interaction and coordination. I believe that we need the state actors, we also need the Culture idea, to help achieve the objectives set – of course in cooperation with the municipalities, county councils and the private and voluntary actors. Finally, I would like to say that I am pleased that this message has created so much commitment. It shows that this theme is important for the whole sector. I also hope that this commitment will strengthen the artistic and cultural offer to children and young people and give children and young people the opportunity to experience, create and share.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e3935	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e3940	It was an engaging post from the Council of State. As we know, sport is a very important part of child and youth culture. The construction of sports facilities, not least through tippers, is also important for children’s and young people’s sport throughout the country. We have a great lag on tippers for the construction of such facilities, and I wonder if the Council of State has any thoughts on how we can prevent the delay that many people experience in obtaining state funds for the construction of sports facilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e3947	This Communication addresses the culture of children and young people. It does not take up sports work in itself; we may get back to that. But I can say on a general basis that yes, there is a need for more funds for this. For example: The VAT compensation scheme for the construction of sports facilities locally has been fulfilled by the government, and we will, of course, follow up on that work in the ordinary budgetary procedures. So we get that back, but sport is not addressed in this message.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e3952	Last week, there was an alarming announcement from the Norwegian Sports Association that they had lost 185 000 members in 2020, and they expect a similar decrease this year. Volunteering and voluntary organisations are afraid of the same thing and have indications of it. A great many of those who have now quit, both in sport and volunteering, are children and young people. This will have a major impact on growing-up conditions in all communities and probably also on public health. I heard the representative, Lossius, talk about the holiday card and the 200 million. kr that is promised in the budget for this year, and that it might slow down if we are now going to make an effort to recruit back. Does the Minister think that is enough, and what other measures can we take to ensure that the recruitment is much faster on the legs again after the pandemic?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e3959	I'm a little surprised to have another sporting question. This is a child- and youth-cultural message that does not address sport. I also like to discuss sport, but quite generally about volunteering, to take it: we said early that we want to reach, for example. a VAT compensation scheme of SEK 1.8 billion. kr. If I'm not wrong, I think the Stoltenberg government would also have set a target, so our target was 600 million. kr more than the Stoltenberg government, so in total we have increased the scheme by 655 million. kr. So I would say that during this crisis that we have been in, the government has taken the initiative to set up with over 10 billion. kr to satisfy the cultural, voluntary and sporting sectors in the difficult situation they face. kr, but the 10 br. the Government has taken the initiative. It is precisely because we recognise the need for culture, volunteering and sport, and that is why we have made the liberal arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e3966	Thanks for the answer. I am pleased that both the government and the Stortinget have added to financial support measures under the pandemic, for example. the voluntary nature. But when it comes to recruiting and retiring from volunteering, if the minister doesn't want to talk about sports, I'm afraid the numbers are going to be in the order of magnitude that the sport has. What else can we do? Is this something the minister is concerned about, and will he, for example. would it be possible to extend the leisure card scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e3973	With regard to the leisure card scheme, we're going to get back to it, but it's actually part of what we're working on to see if we're going to expand the leisure card. So it's important for me, when you say that both the Grandfather and the government have added, to say once again that the government incited 10 billion. And then you've added 0.1 billion. kr, and I think that's good. It's important. Of course, I'm concerned about childhood and young people's apostasy. Even though it is only now that we began to travel: On my very first trip out of Oslo, when we now entered step two, I met a local policeman who was a coach for the local handball team and said that he had lost many of the young people. It's probably easier to recruit back the younger they are, but when they get up in their teens and have a year's stay, it's of course incredibly difficult to motivate both girls and boys to come back to the sport. Clearly, we share a great deal of concern. This is what we are going to work for, because the goal is that we should be able to bring as much as possible – preferably everyone – back to volunteering, culture and sport.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e3980	I'm glad that the Stortinge puts an end to the attempt made by the Council of State to eliminate the objective of providing children and young people with art and culture in the cultural school system as a professional offer. I really can't understand what the council thought when he made a message that took it out of the goal of the cultural school bag. When the Council of State sees the unanimous request decision which the Committee saw had to promote, how will he follow it up, in particular to the cultural idea?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e3988	I am a little uncertain about what the representative of the Supreme Court started with, because we have chosen not to use the term ‘professional’ in the objectives, because it may be exclusive, especially in the cultural heritage field. We want the cultural school bag to include folk musicians, dancers, museum intermediaries and others with a high-quality offer of art and culture, without necessarily being regarded as ‘professional’ artists. That's not the same thing as saying that professionals are not part of the goal of the cultural school bag. We are clear that children and young people should become familiar with professional artists through the cultural school bag. It is also formulated in the government's will-points and is government leaders in the distribution of gambling funds. So this is not a denial of the professional, but rather a recognition of all the artists who are excellent in their field, who do not necessarily practice art and culture on a full-time basis, and thus do not come into the professional category.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e3993	Those are pure words for the money, and then it is very good that the Stortinge in the treatment of this situation has said that the professional offer should be continued as part of the cultural school bag. So the Council of State would like to comment, as I asked, on how to follow it up. I have another question: whole 1.4 million Nordics are active in voluntary cultural life, and it is a very important community arena, especially for children and young people. Nevertheless, voluntary cultural life is given very little space in this big message, and after a year when this important part of cultural life has really fallen between the vast majority of chairs in terms of crisis relief, and not least is constantly experiencing the worst line of queue for reopening than other parts of the Minister of Culture's portfolio, to put it that way. This leads to frustration. Therefore, my question to the Council of State is whether he recognises the importance of voluntary cultural life for child and youth culture as part of the cultural core wall, and whether he will be a little more responsive to their needs, not least in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4000	Let us take the professional once again, when the representative of the Supreme Court says that I should listen – that is of course quite natural, every government listens to majority comments and majority decisions, it should just be lacking. But I think you're trying to construct that we don't take into account what's going on with professional and non-professional actors. It's taken care of. We will, of course, follow up further if the representative believes that it is not, but I believe that it has already been taken care of. As far as voluntary cultural life is concerned, of course we recognise the importance of volunteering. That's why we set ourselves the goal of reaching 1.8 billion. kr in VAT compensation. We did that, and that's 600 million. kr higher than the Stoltenberg Government. In addition, we have established a system that applies to the cultural sector and is managed by the Council of Culture. And then we've created a different system of volunteering and sports. The volunteering and sport scheme has 317 million. Last year just went to the free cultural field and, for example, children’s and youth organisations, which received 77 million. NOK of this. It's because we recognize their importance that we make up the big money for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4007	Then it is strange that children's and youth's freedom has not been given a greater place than the small space it has received in this big message. So was my question about child and youth freedom will be recognised as an important part of the cultural core wall just for children and young people. I notice that the Council of State boasts that it has been put off by money during the crisis year of volunteering, and that is true. The problem is that the money has little to do with those who actually need it, and it's about volunteering in particular. I'm going to think that cultural freedom really notices that particular problem, when, for example, it does. the size required to receive compensation. Then we see that very many of the local layers and associations, especially within cultural life, are not supported. There has been a great frustration for the voluntary cultural life through the pandemic. But back to the future: how will the Council of State recognise the voluntary cultural life of children and young people?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4016	First of all, I think the representative of the Supreme Court will take the time to re-read the Children's and Youth Culture Communication, because I think a lot of open doors are being opened. Secondly, we recognise the importance of volunteering in cultural life. That's why you've made your own arrangement first for culture, which falls within the cultural council's arrangement. Then we recognize that there are many people who do not come under that scheme, and have created a voluntary scheme. The free cultural field comes under this. One of the visits I had last year, which touched me very much – I don't remember exactly – was in Ringsaker, where I visited volunteers who sew costumes and create scenes. There are many hours of volunteering to help maintain and contribute to a good cultural offer for children and young people, and so on for adults. They're a carrier in Norwegian society. Of course, we recognise their importance, and of course we should follow it in the ordinary budgetary processes. A message is a message, a budget is a budget, and then we get back to many things in the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4025	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4030	I am very pleased that we have now submitted a communication with a comprehensive child and youth policy, and I believe that it is a strength that we see the cultural school in the context of the other child and youth culture policy. At the same time, much of children and young people’s learning and experiences related to art and culture take place in the ordinary course of education. I would like to remind you that in 2019 the government presented a strategy on practical and aesthetic content in kindergarten, school and teacher education. Together, it underlines the strategy and the children’s and youth culture message we are discussing today, the importance of the art and culture place in children and young people’s lives and everyday life. The cultural school is included in the notification in many places, e.g.: where we talk about municipal and regional planning, but the cultural school is also a separate and comprehensive part of the communication. In this big message, we are doing a comprehensive review of the cultural field – history, knowledge base and status today, the challenge picture and the dilemmas. This thorough review of the cultural field provides a good basis for us and the municipalities to outsmart the policy of the cultural school of the future. The cultural schools are owned and run by the municipalities, and the municipalities currently have a large space for action to design and adapt the supply based on demand and available resources. The government wants it to remain that way and that the state should not govern the content and scope, and the government encourages the municipalities to use this space of action. In the Communication, we present the government's vision for the Culture School: Culture School for All. This means that all children and young people who want to go to the cultural school will have the opportunity to attend, and we point in different ways to this. We have to get out with information about the cultural school, and the cultural schools have to work even more actively to recruit widely. A cultural school for all also implies that everyone, regardless of background, feels welcome. The cultural school should mirror the diversity of society through a wide-ranging range of teaching, dissemination and creative activities. We want the cultural school to be an inclusive arena, and we encourage municipalities to exploit the cultural school's potential as an inclusive force in the community. The core of the cultural school's activities is to provide a high-quality educational offer to all children and young people, regardless of where they live and irrespective of their economy. In the cultural school, students will learn, experience, create and disseminate cultural and artistic expressions. The cultural school shall also contribute to the qualification of students with special interest and motivation for admission to higher artistic education. That is why we suggest that some cultural schools in each state or region can take a special responsibility for immersion and talent development. The government believes that we have more to do in terms of seeing the education sector, the cultural sector and the cultural school in the context. The cultural school should be a cooperating actor with both kindergarten, elementary education and SFO, but also with other cultural life and voluntary actors in the individual municipality. The cultural school can be a local resource centre – we have seen many good examples of this. In the Communication, we call for cooperation and for the municipality that owns both the school and the cultural school, for example. sees the competence of employees in the context. That's how we can raise both the school of culture and the school. The school lacks teachers with formal competence in practical and aesthetic subjects, while a good number of cultural school staff have part-time positions and could imagine full-time jobs. We have therefore proposed measures in the Communication to meet this challenge. Culture School-Norway is diverse, and there is a lot of creative work to do for children and young people. We want to stimulate that diversity to remain there, and that we should have a wide range of supply based on local assumptions and needs. The Child and Youth Action Communication shows how we can get a stronger cultural school for the future without introducing unnecessary detailed leadership from national teams that will limit this good work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4068	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4073	A big message about children and young people’s cultural services and activities is very positive, and it also shows how to work together between departments. But when it comes to the cultural school, the Council of Culture Schools says that the government wants the cultural school well, but it won't cost anything. When there are many kids in line who want to learn how to play an instrument, play theater, expand their creative skills and not get to do it, it must be one of the most meaningless queues we have. One way the municipalities can get rid of the queues is, of course, to set the price. Then the students who can't afford it disappear. No one wants that. My question to the Council of State is: how are all these fine wishes for the cultural school to be achieved if you are not willing to spend enough money on the table to enable municipalities to do this, while at the same time providing a good school, which the Council of State is probably concerned with, elderly care, primary health services and all the other tasks the municipalities have?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4080	The representative Giske himself comes from a municipality that has spent many years investing very much in cultural schools, both on offers of very high quality and not least on offers that are intended to reach a width. Among other things, I have visited the offer at Huseby School, where really all students participating in the SFO get access to a cultural school offer, which has contributed to more children applying for it. Some municipalities struggle with long waiting lists, while approx. half of the municipalities do not have it. Of course, we should have liked to have made it possible to offer an offer to absolutely all children and young people who want it, and there is a clear ambition in our message. The question is whether we achieve the best through earmarked means, or whether we believe that the municipalities are actually able to prioritise the best measures to achieve this goal themselves. I belong to the latter category. I have great faith that the municipalities both want and can prioritize the cultural schools, and that they can find their best way to bring down the waiting lists for the cultural school.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4087	I also see this in context with the commitment to practical-esthetic subjects in school, which are constantly under pressure – and it is certainly under various governments – because you have to learn other basic subjects, as it is called, while in the future the working life probably more demand creativity, new ideas, expansion, the opportunity to stand on stage, etc. I think the state council would never say about the usual school place that we believe in the municipal freedom to get all the 600,000 kids in primary school a school place. We demand that all municipalities get all kids a school place. My question to the Council of State is: why can't we set the same requirement for municipalities in the field of cultural education, and say that this is a basic offer that shouldn't depend on where you live, what economy you have, how the municipality prioritizes – this should simply be an offer that all kids should benefit from?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4095	It's like even when it comes to school, which I think everyone agrees that is a high priority area, we're funding it through the municipal framework. We don't have earmarked funds for that. Nor do we say how much the municipalities have to spend on it. But of course it's like everybody's right in a school place. It was just supposed to be missing. Our ambition is very clear that the cultural school should be for everyone, and I think that's a goal that we share with a lot of local politicians around the country. But it's also that the offer through the cultural school is much more varied and diverse than what the school places are, and it's also a little more difficult both to define and define exactly what a cultural school place is. A school place is a school place, but a cultural school offer can be so often — everything from participating in a choir to having lessons in piano training or participating in some common activities. We have faith that the municipalities are able to prioritize this and it is important that we actually leave it a local space for action.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4100	Reading is very important for both knowledge and culture for children and young people, not only to be able to understand the realities of others through literature as art, but also to be able to acquire knowledge through longer texts and to have good reading skills. Therefore, it is so alarming that reading figures go wrong, that children and young people read less today than before. We know that the school libraries are a very important venue to reach children and young people for both reading and communication of literature. Nevertheless, we unfortunately see that the school libraries are often just a room with some books in, in which the morning paper formulated it a few years ago, and sometimes just a box of some books in, not even a room. The Storting Message does not announce anything new to strengthen the school libraries. On the other hand, SV has made several proposals on the matter. What will the Council of State do with, for example: the pilot project with purchasing arrangements for the school libraries? Will the Council of State make it permanent?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4109	I think I could have signed up to most of the representatives of the Supreme Court saying in their post how important it is to both reading skills and that we have strong measures that help to promote literacy. Clearly, there is great cause for concern when we see that, especially among 15-year-olds, leisure reading is falling sharply. There is no doubt that the school and school libraries are an important venue for raising that leisure reading to stimulate more young people to discover the literature and find out that this is something for them. That is why we also have a separate grant scheme aimed at developing and strengthening the school libraries. This year, this grant is 14.5 million. kr. Although the representative describes a world that is diverse, it's not like everyone has invested the same amount in school library, it's fortunate that most schools have their own school library. There are also many who have seen the value of it, who have lifted it up as part of their reading effort, and as a result of it have also obtained good results in the student's reading skills.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4116	Thank you to the Council of State for your answer. It's good to hear that we agree on the importance of both reading and school libraries. Unfortunately, there is no requirement except that there must be a school library offer. It's e.g. no guidelines on quality, content, school library. Governments would like to comment on that. I was actually going to ask another question. It's a pleasure that the government is in favour of the goal that the cultural school should be for everyone, but the representative Giske has already talked about the long queues, which show that this is not the case. In addition, cultural school prices vary; there may be as much as $6,000 for a cultural school place. If the Council of State really believes that the cultural school should be for everyone, what will the Council of State do to bring down the economic threshold in order to participate?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4123	Now school libraries are regulated by the Training Act. The representative of the Supreme Court is quite right in not describing very detailed quality requirements. The work on a new training law is now in the department, and a new proposal for a training law will be sent to the hearing if not for too long, so I hope we can have a good debate on the school library in the wake of it. As far as the cultural school is concerned, I was a little bit involved in a previous article. To define a maximum price or something, we don't think it's appropriate, because cultural school offers are so different. There are wide variations in the offer from municipality to municipality. Some places you pay a lot, but you also get a very wide range of high quality. We believe that with a maximum price in the worst case case, we can risk getting a lower quality offer too, and we believe that this is wrong. We have a lot of measures to lower the threshold. State Council Raja was involved in the leisure card scheme, which can help make the cultural school accessible to more people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4130	I thank you for your answer. We eagerly follow the presentation of the new Training Act. I think it might be useful to set some quality requirements, at least guidelines, when we see that there are so many differences in the quality of the school libraries. But I drew myself a last line on the last part of the answer to the Council of State, because I'm really struggling to see how getting down the economic thresholds to participate can go beyond the quality of the offer. On the contrary, I think the quality gets better when you have a broader group of students, when you get wider. Besides, it's a goal in itself. I have to ask my question again: how do you get the cultural school to be for everyone, when the prices are so high? Why, for example, can't. the national authorities contribute and help municipalities to bring prices down – preferably as proposed by SV in our budget, that it should be free of charge?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4139	Of course, it is important that the price is not too high and that there is a wide range of services available to all. That's why we also highlight it in the Communication, that cultural schools need to have lowthreshold facilities, which can be provided in connection with school, SFO or non-governmental organisations. It gives students an opportunity to get to know the cultural school and learn about art and culture. My point was also that many cultural schools have a rather differentiated offer. They also have some offers such as: is aimed at students who want to bet, who want to develop a talent, and who may be moving in a more professional direction. The fact that you can also have some offers with a higher price for students who get a more comprehensive offer, we believe is an important part to fulfil the mandate of the cultural school.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4146	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4153	All first: Congratulations to the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Knowledge for making a message to facilitate all Norwegian children and young people, irrespective of where they live in the country, and irrespective of their economic, functional and ethnic and religious backgrounds, they must have access to a wide cultural life and have the opportunity to participate. It's a big and important ambition. The main objective is also to ensure that art and culture that is created and disseminated for children are of high quality and that all children themselves are created and experienced on their own premises. I note that the Workers' Party will send the message back on the grounds that there is a lack of a comprehensive cultural policy, and that the ambitions are not high enough. I guess I couldn't have disagreed more. The ambitions are clear and clear, they permeate the whole message. It is about participation, it is about equal opportunities for participation, it is about a relevant and representative cultural offer, and it is about interaction and coordination. The Workers' Party's proposals are, in fact, an investigation into the cultural school system and an evaluation of the cultural concept. Then at least I want to give commendation to SV, who makes a number of proposals that in themselves are not so stupid, but they are tied up in the budget, and it becomes difficult for the government parties to join in. In the toolbox to achieve these goals and ambitions, we have the cultural schools and the cultural school bag — an offer for everyone. We have the actions of municipalities and county councils, and it's library, it's leisure clubs, the Frifonds and organisations like Norwegian Cultural Councils, volunteering, the Cultural Council, the Cultural Tank and the Norwegian Film Institute. I want to stay a little bit at the cultural schools, which have also been up in the debate here. There should be an activity involving school, culture itself and leisure activities, and there should be both a broad range and a core offer in cultural schools. The municipalities are responsible for organising this. I would like to pay tribute to my municipality of residence, Drammen, who very early gave a free cultural school offer to families with an income of less than 400,000 kroner and gave sibling moderation. There is an opportunity for everyone to experience cultural offerings. The local economy is also strengthened and is better than ever, so it's up to the municipalities how they want to organise this. We have given the Norwegian Cultural Council an opportunity to become a centre of expertise to assist municipalities in the development of cultural schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4164	Two days ago, 24 years ago, the music and cultural schools were legislated as a municipal school offer in the primary school law § 13-6 – with great joy, and it was new in international context. Today, I am happy that the Christian People’s Party is involved in raising the school battle. Our national potential for art and culture for children and youth, municipalities and national cultural life will be further developed. The aim is not primarily vocational and vocational education, but it is so much to provide a basis for life development, knowledge and skills that enrich life. It contributes to positive leisure time, self-development and good mental health. The cultural schools are a new arena for mastering and a new arena for increased status and personal development, but we see that there are still great variations in how municipalities have solved the law and the offers given. It is the primary school which is the largest cultural school, responsible for broad general training in practical-esthetic subjects. Culture schools shall be the academic extension of primary school with immersion originally based on individual education and/or ensemble for those who will. At the same time, the cultural school will always be part of local cultural life — yes, in fact, a prerequisite and an important supplement. By taking in more forms of art, the cultural school has evolved into a comprehensive school class where thousands of children and young people have received a new offer. However, there are limits to what the cultural school should offer. The cultural school will provide students with knowledge, skills and experiences, but offers must not be diluted or based on large groups to reduce costs, nor can it be expected that employees will be travelling in low-threshold services in District Norway. The school team is unique. Personally, I believe that the cultural schools deserve their own message, but I am very happy today that the Christian People's Party has contributed to a very good process and notification. The cultural schools are owned and operated by the municipalities, and I am pleased that the administrator is to supervise the activities and that criteria for working conditions and requirements for equipment and HMS regulations are to be established for employees with regard to light, air and noise. Today this is a neglected area, in my opinion. I also want municipalities to give priority to professional development of cultural schools. I believe that qualified teachers could well receive the same salary as in primary school. I believe that cultural schools must end up being a balancing item in the budget. It's been one of the school's plagues for many decades, where employees have known about insecurity at the same time as the parties sound. The demands for municipalities have been too lowly committed and defined, and the Christian People's Party will closely follow the development of the school team. Finally, I appreciate the fact that the Christian People's Party has now got a free time card in place, it could be a key to economics. Thank you to the Council of Culture Schools, a great thank you for the framework plan and their targeted work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4179	I would also like to start by congratulating all of us on the first cultural message for children and young people. The message has been written after, for example, recording from just a thousand children and young people. I also want to highlight the four objectives of the Communication, which are participation, equal opportunities for participation, a relevant and representative art and cultural offer and interaction and coordination. The communication contains exciting policies in a number of areas, and I want to focus on literature policy. Studies show that we read less for our children than we did before, and the number of books read among the younger part of the population has decreased. But we have a lot of good policies in this area, and now that we see the cultural policy of children and young people together, it will also benefit young readers. The government has been focusing on reading policy for the last few years, and a quick look at the cultural budgets shows us, among other things. major appropriations for the Norwegian cultural fund, which is the main source of funding for literature for children and young people, the Norwegian Author Centre, which provides authors for events throughout the country, the Norwegian Children's Book Institute, for the education of authors, the Norwegian Society, for literature in Nynorsk, the Reader is looking for a book, which facilitates the production and dissemination of organized literature, the Association!les and the literature houses in Oslo, Bergen, Skien, Fredrikstad and Trondheim. In addition, the National Library manages nearly 50 million. kr to follow up the actions of the National Library Strategy for the period 2020-2023. The first round — with the 2021 distribution — was completed, with a distribution of 15.5 million. kr to more than 100 dissemination actions in Norwegian public libraries. This includes interventions in over half of the country’s municipalities — and in many places in cooperation with schools and kindergartens. I would also like to highlight that the new curricula in the subject innovation facilitate students to develop their literacy skills throughout the training process, both literacy skills, reading motivation and learning to use libraries are important. The Training Act also states that students should have access to school libraries. Right-wing wants a literature policy that helps to spark the interest of young people, and then we need schemes that not only reward authors who have the best language or write the right literature – or in another way: we might have to snoop down some of the requirements we have for literature. I am pleased that the government in the message writes that they want to ensure that there is a wide variety of literature provision for children and young people, to encourage the dissemination of more literature through the cultural school bag, and that they will contribute to increased literacy through the support of the national reading organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4193	The cultural school is an important venue for children and young people's opportunities to develop as whole people. It has been exciting to follow the development of the cultural school from its inception as various private activities carried out by local fires, to the flourishing work being done today over the whole country under the auspices of the municipal culture school. In the 1980s it took a new form, and with the impact of the Christian People's Party, there was a state teacher's grant for every teacher's hour the municipalities used for what was then called music school. When the municipalities discovered the importance of the cultural school for the development of children's different cultural interests and abilities, there was a strong desire to expand the offer to include more culture, and in the 1990s we received a subsidy scheme for the municipalities that included several forms of art and culture. Dance environment, drama and visual arts were part of the system. Then also started a completely necessary struggle to legislate an obligation for the municipalities to set up cultural schools with state grants, and during the Bondevik I government in 1997 it became a statutory obligation to establish cultural and music schools. Last, but not least in this context, it has now been four years since the Christian People's Party promoted the proposal for a big message for a strengthened cultural school for the future. I have to say I am very pleased that the government has great ambitions on behalf of and in cooperation with the cultural school to which we are today discussing an important contribution. This message acknowledges the challenge of having equal opportunities wherever you live, and is now taking new steps to ensure that this is the case. The cultural school is an important offer and in many places forms a central part of the cultural offer to children and young people. It is also true that many young people today have unique opportunities to develop their skills and interests in cultural schools that they do not have in other arenas. They have their first meeting with art and culture, with commitment and with mastery faith as an alternative form of communication. The possibility of sharing thoughts and accepting others, the possibility of sharing an art expression and accepting others, is what makes us evolve as whole people, and to make it equal for our children, we need to ensure increased participation and availability. Therefore, we are very pleased that the Council of State has chosen to include in the communication the vision of the Council of Culture Schools – cultural education for all. Now the government has delivered on ambitions and visions for the cultural school. Now the cultural school has to be an offer for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4206	It is alarming to listen to the opposition's logic that the cultural school bag is now to be razed because it is to support learning in school. I want to start by giving praise to the government and the Minister of Culture for having delivered a big message that really helps raise the arts and culture of children and young people. In school debates, we often talk about early action. This is a concept that is also most relevant in this debate. Now, finally, we have a big message that unites the free art with substantiating wonder, understanding and learning together through the cultural school bag. That's how we contribute to greater commitment, contribute to more creativity and provide a deeper understanding for all children across the growing-up sector. By being able to prepare our children through preparatory work at school and afterwork when experiences have taken place, we give our kids the tools necessary to both enjoy the different cultural expressions and contribute to learning. I have no doubt that this is a strength for recruitment to and increased understanding of culture and cultural expressions in society. This is not contrary to free art and culture. If you sincerely believe that there should be no couplings, that for example. shall not be possible with, for example: for and after work, while our young people are deprived of the important opportunities to enrich, understand and learn what the school is going to contribute to. I think that weakens social cohesion and equal opportunities for all children. The smallest resource strength will lose. Then it doesn't help to talk about early efforts or claim that you care about those who need the community the most. There should be a wake-up call for more people here today. I also want to draw out the school library when I have the word first. For many children, the school library and library in general are the first window towards the world. They provide good meetings with the literature of all the world and contribute to reading and reading. The new curricula in the field of vocational renewal facilitate students’ development in the field of literacy throughout the training cycle and contribute to the motivation for reading, and this is where the school libraries are at the centre. Because we know that young people who are being read for, and who are themselves motivated to read, are doing much better in school. In fact, children who are stimulated by reading early in their childhood have more than twice the probability of completing and passing their education. I'm very happy that studies indicate that most students have access to a school library. I also think it is very good that the government has a subsidy scheme of over 14 million. kr annually which shall contribute to the development of the reading-stimulation work of the school libraries. This is how we contribute to early efforts in this area as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4219	Nearly on rehearsal was the representative of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen in the gift enhancement scheme, which she is traditionally opposed to. Now I actually think that the representative should take a walk on the almost new E134, get in the car and drive up to the Notodden Cultural House and have a talk with the headmaster of the cultural school in the city, as she knows well, called Torgeir Fossli and is Left-Man, and then she should ask him first of all what he thinks about the bet that the government is now doing on the cultural schools in the country. And then she'll take a little walk in the hall, because there's the Notodden Blues Festival office. Then she's going to ask the principal, or the director of the Notodden Blues Festival, what he thinks about the Notodden Blues Festival getting between 600,000 and 700,000 kroner through the gift enhancement scheme during this downtime. Then I think she gets a pretty good answer to what this arrangement means. Then I think she should ask the same man: what do you think about me being against this arrangement? Then she gets an equally good answer. Once upon a time, Notodden – I went to school in Bø – was a town you went to because there was a wine monopoly there, and then you preferred to leave Notodden. It was very good to drive up to the driver's license there, because there was so little traffic in the city. The Notodden Blues Festival has participated in bringing this city up on the world map. The representative, Sem-Jacobsen, knows that. Since 1988, this has done something to her city, and it's quite amazing. Thus, between 600 000 and 700 000 kroner have been contributed by the State in strengthening the efforts made by private individuals for this city. I think the representative should think about that. I understand that the Workers' Party and SV are almost programmatic opponents of the gift-enhancing system, because the parties are almost obliged to be a little allergic to private schemes, but that the Center Party is going to oppose this, I am not going to get up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4228	Thank you for all those questions. That gives me a very good reason to talk a little bit about what the challenges are, including. for both the Notodden Blues Festival and all the cultural houses else in the municipality I come from. First of all, if I ask the former head of the Telemark Left, who is now the headmaster of the cultural school at Notodden, what he thinks about the investment in cultural school now and before, I think he'll be very pleased with both. If I ask Jostein Forsberg, who is the leader of the Notodden Blues Festival, what he thinks about getting money in the gift enhancement scheme, he'll say it's fine. If I ask the same Jostein Forsberg what he thinks about the other branch houses and cultural houses in the municipality not getting anything, because the funds that go from the gift enhancement scheme, 70 million. kr, is taken from the decentralised cultural building system, I am absolutely sure what Jostein Forsberg – with his past, where he is raising the trade unions and LO in the festival – likes exactly that. I am absolutely convinced that he liked better the previous arrangement, where the Notodden Blues Festival as a hub festival got the funds from the state, from that arrangement, instead of taking from the little ones. Unlike the representative Grimstad, I'm not going to shoot what Jostein Forsberg says, but I'm happy to ask him about that. Being taught about what the Notodden Blues Festival has meant to Notodden, I think it is a notodding – and who has also been in charge of that festival, before I became a politician, for many years and fought for the money we can get from the state and to get the entire Telemark to contribute to that festival – was a little special. But you should always listen to those who think they know better, so I get to watch the recording afterwards and see if there's anything there that I need to take with me.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4237	Just two comments at the end of the debate. One goes to those who say that we can't participate in one or the other or the third promise, the goal, the ambition, because it belongs in the budget. But it's an argument that's mostly only used in the field of culture. It would be headlong laughter if one had stood in this room and discussed the national transport plan and said: No, we really can't decide on any concrete road projects, because that's what we have to wait for the budget. It would be head-bending laughter if you discussed the psychiatry plan, or if you were to discuss other difficult bet areas, for example. The defence plan, and then it would have said, 'No, we can't really decide if we're going to have new fighter planes, because that's what we have to do in the budget. It's just the culture that's being treated like that. The head of the committee himself is standing here and saying that the ambitions are very fine, but that is what we have to include in the budget. A big message is about putting up some ambitions, having a plan, making sure you set some goals, which you follow up – quite correctly – in the budget. We could in this room give the Minister of Culture, when he is going to the Budget Conference with the Minister of Knowledge in August, tools to win the battle for cultural resources, for cultural schools, for children and young people, but we do not use that opportunity. Then Jostein Forsberg became a witness to the truth of what is good or bad cultural policy. I am quite convinced that one thing he would have said was that it was quite bad that the current government parties took away the node status that the Notodden Blues Festival had, a national position, a safe and secure state aid that was removed. I think that's the most important thing, and it would be nice to hear if the representatives of the Left were just as proud of it. Then it was said that the gift enhancement scheme is critical to us because we are against private money. The gift-enhancing system is not private money, it's public money. But they're assigned by connecting to private money, that is, with the logic that those who get a lot of private money will also get a lot of public money. While other festivals in Telemark County, such as Kragerøfest or Rauland Winter Festival, hardly receive support from the Cultural Council, public funds must also be channelled against those who have private resources. No one has documented that the gift-enhancing scheme triggers more private money, and that must be the point if public money is to be used in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4246	I thought I would sum up the debate, but before I started: I was a bit stunned on my way up to the pulpit when I was told that we have missed an opportunity – by supporting a lot of suggestions that could give more action to the government. I want to say that the document itself thrusts out a direction for this government in negotiations. I do not see that the Workers' Party is in favour of any of the SV's proposals, and I really perceive that most of the SV's proposals are binding on the State budget. During the debate, I feel that the opposition is very critical in its contributions, and that they may be somewhat misunderstood with this message. The policies we adopt now, the visions we set ourselves, and the objectives are to be followed up in bets and appropriations. It is quite clear that we need a review of the cultural policy objectives for children and young people, because there are many things in the debate that you feel should have been looked at more closely. It is quite clear that there is a need for interaction and more cooperation to achieve this. The municipalities are the closest to where people live, and they have a special opportunity to organise good cultural services. The municipalities have had a better economy and growth in free resources under this government, although that is not what emerges from this pulpit, and we have quite clear ambitions. The question is whether the opposition hears what you're actually saying, or whether you're so concerned about criticizing and black-painting that you don't want to hear. We have strengthened the Free Fund scheme, and we need to adapt it to make it easier to apply for self-organised leisure activities. We increased the grant for children's leisure time by increasing the framework for youth and leisure time. We also implement an educational commitment for teacher training in practical and aesthetic subjects. We strengthen municipal planning with support for the cultural plans of the municipalities, and we also provide increased support through Culture Space so that voluntary, private and municipal actors can receive support for building and acoustic improvements. There are things that have been noted during this treatment, including: in a committee opinion of the Education and Research Committee. We need a comprehensive policy for children and young people in order to be able to see, in order to organise for children and young people, and I believe that we are now adopting some clear objectives in this room that we can pursue.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4259	First, I would like to thank the case rapporteur, who summed up in an excellent way. So I just have some comments about the node arrangement. It was well evaluated and was perceived as fairly unfair by those who did not receive a node function. So we're happy that we're done with the regime where someone is appointed by someone to have a special function, whether it's jazz festivals or whatever it is. We're glad we're under another regime. I expect the Workers' Party to support the SV's proposal regarding funds in the budget for 2022. It is quite common practice to wait for the government budget to be presented by the government parties in key messages in order to give priority to what is going to happen in the cultural sector. We have an offensive Minister of Culture, so I hope for a good budget for children's and young people's culture too in 2022.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4268	It's very nice to hear that the cultural school is kind of a common property. Whatever political party we enjoy it. There is a jewel in Norwegian context, and internationally it is noticed. But some of us may remember that the red-greens in their period invented something called the ‘culture school hour’. The political leaders were depicted with triangles, and it would be like a great invention. I would like to say that if there was to be a red-green majority this autumn, we appreciate that SV and the other opposition parties have now said that they will contribute financially, but I ask that it is not attached to instructions for use that go on government governance. It is already a significant plan in the framework plan that the municipalities should be responsible for, so I ask you to show the municipalities the confidence that they will develop their own cultural school, without a laundry note. I want to add quite briefly, since I didn't get the time to do it in the previous post, that inventing the cultural schools as a resource center is a great idea, both for the whole cultural life and for the schoolwork. However, good driving rules should be established for such a resource centre, so that the use and borrowing of equipment, resource use and stockholding is such that it does not become the cultural schools that receive a new instruction and shall be a service provider for all the others. It must be organized in such a way as to enrich the cultural schools. I've seen conflicts in this area, so when a person invents new things, it's important that resources are given and that they make rules for how it's going to be used. It is very gratifying that for so many years the Council of Culture Schools has had such a conscious attitude and has worked so systematically – they have conducted regional training in the various arts – and inspired cultural schools and municipalities everywhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4277	First of all, Christian People's Party should have the honour of having a fight for the cultural school for 30 years, so that's absolutely right. But we're not in goal, and we believe that stronger instruments are needed to ensure that we get rid of these queues that we've had for 30 years, under different governments, clearly. It simply has to have some clear goals to do. Just to clarify the Labour Party side: we are not going to vote in favour of proposals for what should be included in the budget for 2022 – we believe that the whole message should be sent back – but what is the point is that we must have ambitions and clear targets for the budgets to be made in the future. That is when a Minister of Culture or a Minister of Knowledge will also be able to see through to the Minister of Finance. When the Minister of Transport can table that one has a ten-year plan for what is to be granted, one has four-year plans for what is to be implemented, the budgets of the Ministry of Finance also come. These are the objectives, ambitions and clear implementation requirements that are very often lacking in the field of culture – unfortunately also in this very important field for children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4284	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 29.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4301	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4308	Let me first thank the Committee for good cooperation on the vote. It is a rather comprehensive position, but we have come to an overall committee position on a number of important points, and I think that is very positive for the commitment to follow-up that the Minister of Culture and the Department is going to have. The museum sector has been through a long period of reform since the ABM notification from 1999 to 2000, via St. meld. No 49 for 2008-2009 and now an evaluation and summary, so far, of how this reform has progressed. The Ministry will take this into account: a large majority of the Committee welcomes the development, which sees that consolidation has had good effects. There is also a clear majority in the Committee that supports the Ministry that more museums can still be included in the consolidation. We know that there are great variations between the counties, but the March Earth, the tasks and the mandate are clear from the Committee. We record that research is focused on the message, it is important and good. We have pointed out that universities and university museums have an important role to play in this, but here too, consolidation and wider professional environments are a positive side. It is a unanimous committee that records that voluntary activity has not followed the increase in budgets and activity. That is why a unanimous committee also says that this must be given greater importance; it must be better put in place, more cooperation should be created. Volunteers play a major and important role in the museum sector. It is only the red-greens who are behind a concrete proposal on this, but the communication, and again the working chain, goes from the whole committee. It is with concern that the Committee sees that the attendance figures have not increased at the same rate as the appropriations. Here are the clear expectations that we actually get more visits. After all, it's the audience's use of the museums that's the point of the museums, as well as managing a cultural history. The majority also note that there are quite large social distortions in who uses the museums. This really applies to cultural life in general. Here the department and the museum sector are clearly told to work better and more on this. User studies are supported. It's a good tool. We can figure out how to get better results, and how to get to more people who don't use the museum sector as a whole. The message tells us that far less than half of the museums have digital educational arrangements for children and young people. The museums can be a phenomenal learning arena. It's more interesting to learn important parts of the curriculum through digital presentations, concrete collections and our own history than through a dry textbook. Now there's probably a lot of textbooks that aren't dry, but this is a good way to learn. That's why we say very clearly that there needs to be a much stronger focus on digital communication, and it needs to be focused on giving the museums a much stronger role in teaching. Now the Minister of Education went, but this is an area that both state councils are given the task to implement. A separate project is to be created, where the educational and cultural sides work together. We've had other messages here in the hall playing in the museum area. We mention both the message of language and the message of the cultural environment, where the museums play an important role, and where we stress that this must be followed up. Where the most problematic situation for the museums is described, is the maintenance and maintenance of the building mass. This is a huge task, and it requires money. Here I'm not going to conceal that in the opposition we are calling for more concrete goals and a greater ambition. However, there is an overall committee that says that this has to be managed, these can be values that are lost forever if you don't take good care of it. We also have a majority that underlines the geographical bias of the museum funds. 50 pst. the museum funds now go to the capital. There has been a sharp deterioration in recent years, and we want a better dissemination of museum resources. It is a notification to which the Committee may broadly agree. The opposition has some points where we go further. There are very many individual museums that should have been mentioned. Some are likely to be mentioned in the debate, but none are forgotten. I'm taking up the proposals from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4342	The representative Trond Giske has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4347	The museums are key actors in the basic infrastructure of democracy and free expression. However, the museums face some major challenges in the future – globalisation, digitisation and climate change. The museums must meet these challenges with sound knowledge production, relevant dissemination, overall collective development and active interaction with the environment. Safe economy, safe resource management, systematic prioritisation and efficient use of digital tools are important in the policy of the museum, as described in this Communication. The right is very pleased that the government prioritises scholarship positions for museum research, and not least that these are linked to research schools. We are very pleased that there is now an application scheme for funding research in museums, and that the university and higher education sectors are so actively involved in cooperation. It is also great that hostilities are provided between the museums and for exchange of experience. We in the Right believe that the museums have a lot to learn from each other. Dissemination of knowledge related to exhibitions and their archives is the main task of the museums. It is particularly important now that digitisation is speeding up. Right-wing people believe that children and young people will have different learning experiences through the collaboration of museums with the cultural school system and also the cultural schools. It's always inspiring to see curious children visiting, which I did now at the newly renovated Natural History Museum in Bergen. Life on the seabed was made interactive. It was an exciting place to be. The café and museum garden were made attractive and inviting for students and others. At the Jektefartsmuseet in Bodø, children and young people can try to lift sail — many have to do it — and they can hear mythical tales from the sea in a sound shower. At the Norwegian Mining Museum in Kongsberg, young rock learns by being in a climbing wall. These are examples of how the museums are creative in dissemination. The museum reform has given the museums a wider professional environment and a stronger professional development. There is more cooperation and completion of relevant consolidations that are the way to strengthen the sector — not the rematch and not the break-up of established entities. We believe that national museum networks will play a greater role in the future through meeting places and interaction venues. We believe it is positive that emphasis is placed on coordinated convergence. It's been reported from 2019 that we have 23 million objects and more than 39 million photographs. 78 museums manage over 5,000 historic buildings. It's something to take care of. The museum's interaction with volunteering is important. Many associations of friends make a great effort, but there are also examples of associations’ opinions coming on a collision course with the museum’s strategy. It may be that the consolidation has brought about a smaller event, and that the museums have become more professional – the latter was meant, not the first. I am very pleased that in the user surveys to be carried out now, the role of volunteers should be sought. It's important that they're on the field. There has been a significant slowdown in investments in the museum sector, and the needs for new buildings and upgrades are high. In the period from 2013 to 2021, more than one billion were granted. kr to museums. It's been a formidable investment across the country. A whole of 60 museums have been accepted. I have not yet met a museum that is not satisfied with the chattered gift-enhancing system, i.e. it has been decommissioned by the opposition, but at least not by those I have visited. The money that gets triggered is 25 pst. the amount of the gift received by the institution. There shall be a puff to find funds other than government grants and ticket revenue. The public should be the bottom plank, but the gift enhancement is a supplement. As of 2019, there are 300 institutions that have received funds from the scheme – large and small. In my home country, Viken, I can mention the small West Fossen Art Laboratory and the large museum Kistefos on Jevnaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4370	In many ways, Norway is a living, large outdoor museum with nature, mountains, fjords, northern lights and other qualities and goods that bring thousands of people from all over the world to Norway each year for these experiences. Unfortunately, there haven't been so many in the last year, but we're lucky to have a country that itself in many ways is a museum. The museums we have – and we have many of them – are also important institutions. They are important parts of living communities. I would also like to thank the President-in-Office for a good and thorough review of what is the main thrust of the communication, and on which the Committee has agreed. There are especially five things the Progress Party draws from the message through our comments and our positions, and I want to explain these. Dissemination of war history for future generations We have both a moral and historical duty to convey to the many heroic, but also atrocious, episodes from the dark chapters of war for future generations. There are almost countless examples of places, large and small, all over the country I could have mentioned, where a fantastic effort is being made to produce these stories, so that they should not be forgotten. We believe this is an important responsibility for us as societies and as governments. Therefore, the Progress Party has highlighted many such locations in the setting. There are several places that should be upgraded so that we can get these stories out in a good way. Coastal culture Coastal culture is an important part of Norwegian cultural history and Norwegian identity, and we have a proud marine tradition. Not least, it shows the interaction that Norwegian society has had with nature and wildlife over many, many generations. This is an important part of Norwegian history that many museums do a great job of showing up, and the Progress Party highlights several museums in the message that we believe should be both prioritised and praised for the efforts they make. Travel life Travel as an industry and cultural experience in general is an important part of what attracts people to Norway and attracts people to different parts of Norway. With the tough year we've been through, this is an industry that deserves extra focus. I would also like to refer to the British Progress Party's proposal on support for family-owned historic hotels, which represent an important part of the cultural part of travel life, and which brings many people from around the country. Voluntaryness Voluntary activities form an important part of Norwegian museums. As someone before me, not all numbers have gone in the right direction in the last few years. That's why we have to bring forward the important efforts of volunteering, not least for the small museums that are totally dependent on hard work and voluntary efforts to exist at all, museums that would not have been present if they had had to pay people to drive. We need to harness that effort and give better framework conditions. Incentives and looking a little ahead The gift-enhancing scheme has already been the theme of today, but that kind of incentive is important for museums to change, work creatively and not only besiege public support, but even think outside the box. There's something about the Progress Party, but also the effort for digitisation, which is an important part of it to look forward to – to convey to even more of our museums, which has not been particularly important in this pandemic, as there have been limitations on our physical opportunities to travel around and visit museums. That was the five things of the Progress Party in this message that we wanted to highlight. Then it'll probably be a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4409	I am very pleased that we finally have an opportunity to discuss the Norwegian museum sector in full breadth again. It deserves the sector itself, and it deserves society. Like several other parts of culture, the museums struggle to get attention in the media, but also politically – even as incredibly important as it is for the dialogue between the past and the future, so that we should not forget where we come from when we are faced with the question every day: Where are we going? The museums are also important for knowledge and education, and of course for history, art and aesthetics. Nor should we forget the important work done by the natural history museums to understand nature, both in the historical context and in the contemporary and future. I think it is very good with the setting we are going to deal with today, and there is a broad consensus on most of the Norwegian museum policy and in the setting, so I would rather dramatize all the differences that emerge from the comments. But we have a little bit of different emphasis somewhere, and there's nuances between the parties. That is why I would like to say a few words about what is important for the Centre Party, and the most important thing, of course, is about the museum reform that we have now been living with for two decades. The centre party has been behind the reform for the years that have passed, because we have seen the need to build stronger museum units and networks in Norway. But we also believe that there are danger signals related to the reform, not least because we have seen a little too many places that the consolidation processes have been very conflicty, and because it seems that unfortunately the reform has not triggered increased voluntary efforts – in many places the very opposite. The centre party believes that Museums-Norway would have enjoyed a foot in the ground now and a proper evaluation of the museum reform. We propose this together with SV and are essentially surprised that only those who support us are. Museums-Norway needs an external and independent evaluation based on the simple question of whether the museum reform has delivered the results and the achievement of the objectives underlying the reform. I think that such a review would have given us both a yes and a no, and that we had got some target conflicts, and we would probably be able to describe a complex landscape where the challenges are slightly different around the country. That is why the second part of our proposal is also important. After all, we need to find out what has worked well and make suggestions on how to make smart adjustments that can produce even better results. I think that today's pressure towards consolidations with advantage can be paused for a while, so that both we and the museum sector can encircle us. An external independent evaluation would have given us that breathing space. I would like to stress that this does not in any way imply that those with good consolidation processes now have to be delayed. If there's peace and unity and there's volunteering, it's just driving. The next thing I want to comment on is volunteering. Here I would like to commend the Committee and the majority for joining us in the Central Party on comments that underline that the volunteering of Museums-Norway is a supporter of the entire sector. Here it seems as if Museums-Norway has challenges. We have a museum sector that now appears stronger and more professional. We need that, and that's good. But you know Museums-Norway badly if you don't understand that the voluntary environments around both large and small museums are equally important. In the vote we have received a majority with the help of the Progress Party on a remark that: ‘The government is taking too little seriously into account in this challenge and that the museum message presents too little proposals for changes that can generate growth in the voluntary involvement of all our museums’. Unfortunately, we only receive support from the Workers' Party and SV for the proposal that helps us get a little further into this field than the comment describes, namely that the government is going to implement a voluntary hearing in the museum sector and use the input to promote proposals for measures that can stimulate increased voluntary involvement in all parts of Museums-Norway. It is good that the Progress Party says A in the setting, and I would encourage the party here in the Chamber to use the withdrawal period to also say B. This volunteer hearing needs Museums-Norway. I would like to stress that we also say that it is particularly important to come up with a set of measures that stimulate the volunteers associated with the smallest museums and museum branches. After countless visits to Museums-Norway, I have a strong idea that this is where we can have the particularly big challenges today. So there's one thing I can't say about anything in particular, but it should be well known what the Center Party stands for in that context, and that's the preservation of the building tax of the cultural-historical museums. Here are really big challenges, and that's not exactly something we've been told this spring -- we've been doing this for a long time. In this case, I refer you to the comments we have written in the setting. I am also going to draw myself later to clarify something about some comments we should have been in. Finally, I would like to say that incentive schemes also in the museum sector and the cultural field, it is the Center Party for. But the challenge is how it's financed, and what it goes beyond. It's in that picture that the gift-enhancing system has a big problem. With that, I take up proposal No. 3, on behalf of the Centre Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4444	The representative of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4449	The museums have a very important social mission. They are responsible for dissemination and research. They manage our common history, provide knowledge and reflection and contribute to both knowledge, democracy and culture. It's impressive to see museums with great circulation and professionalism make their collections and their knowledge available to us. The social mission of the museums has only become more important in our time. There has never been as much access to information as it is now. At the same time, it may never have been more difficult to deal with all the information at the same time. False news, alternative facts and conspiracy theories are spreading with dangerous consequences. Then the museums as free expression institutions and sources of information we have confidence in have become more important. This important societal task makes it all the more serious to read in the Communication that visitor statistics show a high level of social bias. The museums are part of our common knowledge and culture arena and must be accessible to everyone. Therefore, SV believes that clear targets need to be set in order to reach all groups. We need to support the development of more free services, and we want to facilitate more that the cultural carrier, the school bag and the walking stick help the museums reach everyone, regardless of social background. What is too often getting in the way of, among other things. The work to reach a wider audience is the government's flat cheese line, which also affects the museum's economy. With so-called ABE cut of after several tens of millions of dollars, the museum's economy, and especially the operating economy, is under pressure. These cuts will exit SV. The pressure on the museums' economy is getting even worse when the government is increasingly insisting – as they have done in recent years – on more market orientation of the museums. It has been the government's concern that the museums should increasingly rely on private donors and the market rather than provide Community funding. Private money is in itself quite fine, but at the moment it means a shift of power around these important free expression institutions that the museums are, for the benefit of the private donors, yes, then it's problematic. We've already seen it with the National Museum's agreement with the Fredriksen sisters, how generous support provides a separate room for the donors' exhibition. We also see the unfortunate results of the much-mentioned gift-enhancing scheme, where the government is throwing public money at institutions that are already receiving private support. Firstly, we have still not seen evidence that this leads to any more private funds. No – what we've seen is a great misalignment, where museums and other institutions in the big cities and central districts get many millions, which are just fine for them, while museums, and others, in other parts of the country get much less. Obviously there are examples of the opposite, but when you look at the trend, it's very clear. This is a little democratic and little targeted way of financing museums and other cultural institutions. SV believes that the professionally anchored need for support and democratic control of the state budget is the right way to fund cultural life. Therefore, the gift-enhancing scheme has to be phased out and the allocation to the State budget museums has to be increased. Finally, the voluntary effort of so many individuals, teams and associations is invaluable for the work of the museums. Voluntary cultural protection is essential for the dissemination of cultural heritage and our history. The great commitment here is a great resource for the work of the museums and an important bridge to the community around the museum. It builds trust, and it builds belonging and local anchoring. Therefore, there is reason to be concerned about the developments we see in the museum message. The number of voluntary annual works has remained silent and there is particular concern about the smaller cultural historical museums. We need to facilitate better participation and involvement in a more consolidated and professional museum sector, and then it is essential that the state has clear objectives of investing in this field in the context of the museum. Therefore, SV and the other red-green batches, as mentioned above, propose to carry out a consultation with voluntary organisations linked to today’s museums and find measures to facilitate more voluntary involvement in all parts of Museums-Norway. Finally, I would also like to mention the competence and work of voluntary cultural protection organisations. It's important in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4472	I am both proud and pleased that the government and the Council of State are making such a solid and steady announcement to Norwegian museums. It has long been a wish from the sector. Then there is this wording ‘Annexed to the Protocol’. It's a little overnight, I think, President – at least one could escape a few smiles after this in the Minutes. For the museums engage us and show us the story we're part of. They give us insight and knowledge and make great parts of history and history alive and not least relevant. The last one was a counterpart to the completion reform, where the history subject has been misinterpreted in terms of the Left's position on it. The museum's dissemination work is incredibly important and is becoming increasingly important to our perception of the world, our place in it, and not least how we ended up there. I live in a stretch of the country where there is a lot of coast. Thus, it is not by chance that I am particularly concerned with the strong coastal culture and the history of this, and I am particularly grateful that this rich part of our culture is so strongly emphasized in this message. It must be shown more clearly than has been the case in the past. Coastal culture is not only important for historical knowledge of where we come from, but is also becoming increasingly important to business. Cultural tourism is spreading. The culturalists, as it's called, want more than sun and chill. They will be able to see the contexts of the culture being visited more often than before. They want food experiences, they want to know about crafts and the ability to bring home something other than plastic products Made in China or Taiwan. So I'm particularly pleased that the message adds up to leave the Defence Museums to the cultural sector tentatively by 2024. It's been a long time. Of course, this does not mean that all links between defence and the cultural sector are cut, but only that the rich wealth of historical competence and curatorship can be better exploited across and across. Karljohan's protection in Horten is a good example of this. The Marine Museum is located in the middle of a culturally important area, which also houses Preus Photo Museum. Now that a new Norwegian film museum is being suggested, I would like to convey this to the Council of State that I am putting in a share for a local location in the Karljohans protection area, precisely because of the synergies I mentioned. Preus is currently working with the National Museum on moving, recording and documenting the collections taken over from the Norwegian Film Institute. When I first have to deal with the conditions in Westfold and Telemark, I am particularly pleased that my party, in fact at four state councils, has contributed to the Heavy Water Scratch at Vemork, where the current Cultural State Council, for example, has contributed. laid down the foundation for a fantastic project – and fantastic is far more than a cliché. Now, for the rest, the heavy water scale has been raised by a significant amount in the revised national budget, and this is what many in my county are deeply grateful for. If the President has not kept up-to-date on the work going on at Vemork, I strongly recommend a summer visit. We are so privileged that we live in one of the world's best countries both economically and socially. It has not come without hard and smart work for a long time. Our social organization and the strength of voluntary work, public administration, our democracy and the knowledge institutions make us where we are today, on the green branch, a branch that becomes ever greener. The museums show this and fence the knowledge of how we got here. In a world that changes faster and faster, it is more than ever important to understand where we come from, not to lose the good we have now. With the false news and conspiracy theories spread in digital solutions and social media, real knowledge, based on facts, is becoming increasingly important. The left sees that museums play a central role in countering this and providing quality-assured knowledge dissemination to all in Norway. That the message focuses on the action-borne knowledge of tradition, the interaction between culture and nature, re-use, material knowledge and old craftsmanship is something we fully support. If we are to achieve more of the UN's sustainability goals, we need to take care of both material values and, above all, intangibles. This message ensures it. We in the Left are pleased that there is a broad political consensus on the museum message. The fact that there is a common political understanding of what the main objectives are, as well as the overall perspective and areas of action, is a security for further work in the sector. Similarly, it is wise that the message thinks very long-term in its strategies and goals for the museums. We live in a society where the individual has freedom and opportunities. That's still the way it should be. Strong museums can show us how we got to this, and help us continue to fence about the egalitarian society we have, with opportunities for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4500	Museums are important to trust our institutions, to democracy and to the fundamental structures of our society, especially now at a time when fake news and alternative facts challenge democracy, our institutions and the basic structure of our society. Conspiracy theories, such as: that the Holocaust never took place, or other hair-tracing or historyless claims, must be combated, and it is more difficult than ever now that people are shutting themselves into echo chambers, and the common conversation is no longer common. No, for that conversation has been segmented and not least very polarized. It is so important that we have some common references to the past, the present and the future – a truth that we can all agree on, regardless of background, ethnicity or religious affiliation. That's exactly why the museums are so important. Good archives and museums take care of the collective memory of society, and these institutions have an important democratic role in developing and disseminating knowledge of our history and contemporary life. The cultural memories and environments we take care of and provide for the future are important sources of knowledge and experiences and for the development of communities. Therefore, the Christian People's Party wants to ensure good framework conditions for its museums and ensure that the museum sector has autonomy to raise critical questions both in the past and in the present. The museums communicate and document something that helps us to stand on a common platform and agree on what is our common history. I am proud that in the museum message we present today, we party up and forward towards 2050. We emphasise that the museums should be up-to-date and up-to-date in what they collect, how they communicate their knowledge, and how they interact with the outside world. The Communication highlights the role of museums as knowledge institutions with high trust and as important venues for credible knowledge dissemination and nuanced debates in public space. The Communication also focuses on the museums as active social institutions to secure the infrastructure for democracy and free expression. The government has done a lot of good in the cultural field and for museums in Norway. Among other things, we have Incited a power cap for diversity. It's because we want a society, a cultural sector and a museum sector where there is room for many voices, many stories and different perspectives. We focus on the development of digital competences, infrastructures and systems, and we have carried out the first nationwide survey of the state of our building heritage, because we want to do something about the big maintenance run. The revised national budget already reflects several of these ambitions. In connection with the presentation of the museum message we received a good news in Agder. In the years ahead, we will give priority to a boost to coastal culture in Norway. I am particularly pleased that the project of building a new distribution building for the Vest-Agder Museum, as among others. shall contain boat halls and collections related to maritime history in the South, referred to in the Communication as a priority for the Government. This means that we are going to give priority to investment requests from the West Agder Museum for a new dissemination building in Odder Island. Here there is a great need for an all-year dissemination arena, and together with the Source, the Art Silo, a new cultural school and, above all, the artistic environments on the Odder Island, this is an exciting project, which can further lift the coastal culture of the South. The Christian People's Party is pleased with the efforts we make in government at the museums and to preserve our common history and heritage. It is important today, and it is important for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4524	Today we treat the Museum message in society – Trust, things and time. It is an important message, because the museum sector is an important part of the country's infrastructure for democracy and free expression. They are knowledge institutions, meeting places, discussion venues and places for new experiences and new insights. I am therefore very pleased and would also like to thank the Committee for, in its position, largely sharing the overall perspectives and areas of interest of the Communication, and also for the new main goals for the development of the Museums. The notification has a generation perspective, and it is gratifying that there is broad political agreement on the direction forward for the museum sector and museum policy. With this message, the government shows that we are concerned with the museums and their significance for the development of society throughout the country. We propose to strengthen the museum sector as a research sector. It is important that the large collections managed by the museums are more researched and provide us with new knowledge of history and social development. Action-based traditional knowledge of interactions between culture and nature, re-use and material knowledge and old craftsmanship techniques are, for example: important to further develop in the light of the UN's sustainability objectives. Then it has to have another lift. The significance of this has been talked about a long time, now we're doing something about it too. We take seriously that the museum sector is our common memory and reflects our self-understanding. Then it's important that all parts of the story are also found at the museum. Norway is a coastal nation, and the coast has shaped us, without the coastal culture being always as strongly represented in the museum landscape. That is why we want to put coastal culture in particular in the years to come. We aim for professional art and culture to be accessible everywhere and raise the visual art scene in North Norway, including infrastructure for displaying Sami art. We have carried out the first nationwide survey of the state of our building heritage and will do something about the large maintenance run. Already in RNB, there's a picture of some of these ambitions. Of course, I share the Committee's view that we have both a moral and a historical obligation to inform and contribute to reflection on issues related to war and defence and war history. In order to facilitate overall management and dissemination in this important area, we aim to move the Defence Museums and transfer responsibility to the Ministry of Culture in 2024. This has also been discussed for a long time. Now let's do something about that. The government has further initiated a power cap for diversity. It's because we want a society, a cultural sector and a museum sector where there's room for many voices, stories and perspectives. It's necessary. In the message, we underline the importance of the museums in this work. The museums have the power to define what is to be taken care of and disseminated as our common past and history. It is therefore essential that they be perceived as relevant and representative of all. In this context, outreach activities towards new groups, new stories and new means of dissemination are crucial. We trust that the museums both understand and are aware of this responsibility. Many museums show that they already are. We want to make sure that this work continues. The last year has been special, and also dramatic for many. The importance and opportunities of digital technology have become very clear to all of us. Many museums have taken major steps in the development towards more and better digital communication and communication. At the same time, many museums have had to keep closed or downscale physical offerings and canceled and postponed events because of the pandemic we have been in. There has been a difficult situation for many, and I would like to thank the entire museum sector for doing what they have been able to do to facilitate offers where it has been physically possible, but also digitally where it has not been possible physically. Further efforts and development of digital competences, infrastructure and systems are an important ambition for the government of cultural policy. At the same time, this time has shown many of us the importance of the material and spatial. We miss the exhibition venues, we miss the auditoriums for talks and debate, we miss the joint events in the park and on the outdoors, and we miss the magic of seeing authentic items from a time gone by. All of this is to be found in our museums in the future. With this message, the government facilitates the development of experiences that are further developed through the next generation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4549	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4554	I thank the Council of State for a good report, but it is an article that could as well have been made when the message was submitted. Now we're dealing with the configuration of the committee. What I would like to hear from the Council of State is that he understands that on a number of points a unanimous committee, or a large majority, has tougher ambitions, clearer work tasks and a clear order to the Council of State. Firstly, the launch of a project for educational digital arrangements for children and young people is in line with the curriculum in cooperation with the education sector, so that museums play an important role there. There is a strong enhanced commitment to digital communication. This relates to voluntary activity, which had too little room in the notification but is now clearly underlined by an overall committee. It concerns the upgrading of buildings. This applies, as the Progress Party was involved here, also to a reinforced commitment to cultural travel and the role of museums in it. Has the Council of State understood what the Committee has ordered, and has he planned to follow it up in the weeks that he has left as the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4559	Initially, we have presented a very ambitious museum message. I have also followed the debate in the sector, and for me it has at least seemed like it has been very well received. I am also very pleased that the Committee agrees in all respects, and of course, as an experienced representative of the Grand Duchy and the former Council of State, the representative is well aware that any government is committed to following up the decision of the Grand Duchy. We have ambitions to do that, even in this context. Hopefully, we will also win the autumn elections, so that we can do just that, both follow up on the message we have made, and not least with the comments made by the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4564	Although the Council of State has a majority in the Grand Duchy, there is another majority who has given another clear message, and that is that the geographical bias in the distribution of museum resources is unacceptable. The National Museum, supported by a majority in this Chamber, is an important project, but with the investment funds going to the rest of the country, it will take 47 years before the rest of the country has received a similar amount to what is now going to the National Museum, which is a few hundred meters away from the centre of the capital state. In the case of operating equipment, only a few years ago went by. One-third to the museums in Oslo. Now go 50 pst. of the museum appropriations for museums in Oslo. There's nothing wrong with the museums in Oslo. They often have national functions, but we say very clearly that we need to get a bigger bet out of the country, so that the geographical bias is smoothed out. Will the Council of State contribute to it, whether it be in government or from the staging room?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4569	Of course, and I'm a little surprised, because I think the representative really understands the overwhelming importance of the National Museum for the whole country. It's a huge museum lift, and it'll be a great room for art, architecture and design. But of course, it's about seeing the rest of the Museums-Norway. I tried to figure out the numbers for how we've increased this. In the last budget proposal from the Red-Green side in the autumn of 2013, grants and commitments to national cultural buildings of 634 million were proposed. DKK, of which 248 million. kr went to museum projects. We know that in the current year's budget, the framework is 903 million. SEK, of which 755 million. kr goes to the museum sector. As far as I can see, the National Museum is not included in that calculation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4574	Well, it's probably the museum that's right over here in the street, which is the big bearer of that money. As far as I remember, and it's probably in the setting as well, it goes about 150 million. kr for construction in the country. That's why it's going to be the 47 when we spend 6 billion. Down here on the West Railway. I am accomplice in the fact that there was a national museum on the West Railway, and I am strongly attached to the fact that we have a national museum. That museum will house art treasures that are worth many, many times the 6 billion. kr it costs to build the building. Our point is not to be against it. The point is that when a bet is so heavy in the capital, whether it's an opera of 4.5 billion dollars. kr, National Museum of 6 billion. kr, or whether there's refurbishment of the National Theatre to maybe 1 billion. kr, or whatever it is, we have to balance it by making sure that the whole country participates in the cultural effort. It's nice to see you, for example, has a gigantic coastal effort, you should not even include a small marine museum in Hitra. I don't understand that you can't have a little higher ambition.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4579	I don't think I counted the National Museum into this. During the current period, the government has committed 933 million. kr in investment projects in the museum sector throughout the country. The last thing I did was at Finnskogen, the Norwegian Forest Finnish Museum, and the Norwegian Mining Museum, which are important projects. In the past, you've also been given to Anno Museum, which is located in Elverum, and that's how I can only go on with the whole country. In that summary, as I see now, of what this government has done in the last four years, I can only find one project out of the 933 million. kr that has gone to Oslo. So I think the government has helped to see the whole country. Of course, we will continue to do that, and at least I – and the whole government – am very busy seeing the whole country. We're going to do that in the ordinary budgetary processes in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4584	Silje Heimdal [[FRP]] Can the Council of State elaborate on what ambitions he actually has for these cultural memories?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4589	State year Abid Raja [18:14:14]: I think it is incredibly commendable that the representative has this burning commitment to Norway's military and war history, and I am also, as the representative, concerned that this should be well managed and communicated. With the grip we're doing now, we're contributing to the further development of the Defense Museums and strengthening the trade unions around the country. Then we're going to do a good job towards 2024 before we aim to transfer these museums from the Ministry of Defence to the Ministry of Culture. One of the things we're going to look at, of course, is the economy of this, and we're going to make sure that we get exactly what force we need to lift the museum sector, but also the defence museums. Today, the defense has several museums; it is probably nine museums that are organized under the defence community services. Among other things, I see that the committee has been involved in one, the Aviation Museum in Bodø, which I have been and visited myself, and which is a very good project. I guess there's also someone in the representative's neighborhood.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4597	Silje Heimdal [[FRP]] I'm not the one who's decided that so many of the composer's homes are in Bergen, that's just the way it is. But can the Council say something about what he might think of doing, for example. To help, so that you can preserve the cultural memories of Edvard Grieg's home on the Troldhaugen?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4602	Government Council Abid Raja [18:16:29]: I burn very much for the composer's homes, and not least for the Bergen, and I am also very pleased with the representative's strong commitment to getting just the funds to the Lysø. I was there and even visited it last summer and then expired with my own eyes. Fast after that, we set up with 10 million. kr from the government, 9,5 to 10 mill. kr, and then it was added to the revised national budget, also thanks to the representative. Now we've set up with the rest of the funds – 10 million. SEK plus a commitment authorisation of 15 million. NOK – and therefore we are up to 39.5 million. kr that I think is what the project needs in order for it to be taken care of in retrospect. Then I have noted that the representative is concerned with several other good projects in Bergen. I am, too, and we are going to come back to this in an obstinate way in connection with various budgetary processes. I expect the representative to put his strength and weight behind, so that we can add more funds not only to Bergen, but also to other parts of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4607	I understand from the exchange of lines here that there are an incredible number of projects outside Oslo I would like to ask the Minister how eager he is to bet on, but I get to stick to the one line that is left, and it's just about something I'm very curious about. In March 2017, the Stortinget decided to ask the government ‘to carry out a comprehensive assessment of the museum reform so far and to make future challenges visible in a comprehensive museum offer’. Very many museums within the consolidated units I've been talking to and visiting for the last two years around the country, expected them to come up with their experiences in good and bad, and that the sector would finally get the evaluation of the reform that has been in demand for many years. I do not understand what was so afraid of in an evaluation, and I have to ask the Minister why he has voted against the decision and scrapped the evaluation. How does it ensure optimal development of the museum sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4616	Of course, I am concerned that the museum sector is developing in the best possible way. I have also noted that the majority here agree that the process that has now been carried out with consolidation has had good effects. The notification is also clear on the way further for the museum sector, that it is among other things. go through more cooperation between the institutions. In the case of consolidations, it is our opinion that further consolidation is still relevant in some places, not least because processes are in progress in several places for this purpose. We will follow up on the concrete initiatives through our dialogue with the relevant institutions and regional and municipal authorities. Then I'm very happy that the message gets a majority, and that we get this adopted. I would also like to say to the representative that this will be followed up with commitment through our dialogue with the sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4625	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4632	It is an important message we are discussing today, and as head of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, I would like to say that this is important for several sectors. Both culture and climate are important for the Left. We are at a time when the weather is wilder, wetter and warmer. It does something about the building mass that we have, and it's important to take care of. I heard that committee leader Örmen Johnsen also mentioned it, and there have been many people who have faced the challenges we are facing in caring for the building mass. It requires that we train craftsmen who are able to take care of the inheritance we have, but also create a capacity for the future to care for those buildings. The grant scheme mentioned by several is incredibly important, and the craft grants are particularly important because it is the opportunity for career development that traditional craftspeople have today. Being able to get three years to research, develop and learn more is very important. I am very pleased that it is the civil majority who have put that arrangement in place and can continue to expand it. Then I will look back at Gjøvik and the Mjøsmuseet, who have built a warehouse building in massive wood. This sector is, of course, a major public sector order. They have got very much out of little money. It is important for this sector, and in particular for all the items, that several have pointed out. There are millions of them, they're to be taken care of, and it's certainly not everyone's favorite in a raw cellar built of concrete, where it needs to be both ventilated and heated to find proper temperatures. There is a great opportunity for wood. Innovation is an important part of this sector. Even if one treats many objects and that's the story that's important, it's important to find inspiration. I am pleased that, in the revised national budget, there has been an agreement to add 1.5 million. kr to an industrial museum at Raufoss. It's high time. It's not just bullets, powder and war in that story. It's actually also a lot of gender equality history, and it's also a story of innovation. I hear there's a concern about gift-enhancing and rich people's art interests, but I'm very happy that we have Stein Erik Hagen, Nicolai Tangen, Christen Sveaas and Astrup Fearnley Museum. They challenge the public, but they also show that there are other ways to do this, and they bring art to Norway that the public might not always have managed. That diversity I think is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4649	As notified, I would like to take the floor to make Stortinget aware that we in the Zenterpartie absolutely support two comments that we do not have in the setting. The following applies to the note on page 14 of the adjustment in chapter 2.5, Ivariant, which reads: ‘A second majority, all except the member of the Senterpartiet, believes that it is very important that the Nordnorsk Kunstmuseum is upgraded with new viewing possibilities and magazines in Tromsø, and with a new department in Bodø. This majority would stress that the new department in Bodø should not be replaced by the investment in Tromsø, but that the projects in Tromsø and Bodø must be a joint and parallel venture.’ We should have made that comment, and the same applies to the comment on the same page, which reads: ‘The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Progressive Party and the Centre Party, also asks the Ministry to include the South-Trom museum statement ‘National Centre for Outside Art’ in the bet on ‘Art in the North’.’» That being said, I would like to take the opportunity – since there were no more lines left – to ask the Minister for something. The left is not included in our observation, to which the majority of the committee agreed, that it is essential that the state has clear objectives of including the voluntary cultural protection organisations in the museum context. I guess that's because they're not on the committee. However, the parties to the government are not included in the proposal which speeds up the content of that comment, namely the proposal to get the government to do the right thing. ‘Propose concrete objectives and measures to strengthen cooperation between the relevant museums on the one hand and the Cultural Protection Association and its membership organisations on the other’. So to the Minister: why does the government not want to take part in this proposal on the Cultural Protection Association? Voluntary cultural protection is so important to the museums, and I thought the Left agreed with the Center Party. Our proposal is also completely open. Here the government and the minister can do almost anything they want, only they come with something.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4671	In addition to the messages mentioned by the rapporteur in his statement, the Museum Communication also follows up the Northern Region Communication, which discusses the population, their history and cultural heritage. «Art in the North» is part of the initiative proposed, and it is a fine parallel to the debate we had in the previous case, on representative art and culture, that we are betting on the Northern Art Museums. Five projects are presented: new facilities for exhibition and magazine for the Nordnorsk Kunstmuseum, new department in Bodø for the Nordnorsk Kunstmuseum, renovation of the building for the RiddoDuottarMuseat in Karasjok, addition to the Savio collection at the Borderland Museum in Kirkenes and an organized museum for the Nordnorsk Art Museum in Longyearbyen on Svalbard. The museums are in a special position to watch and communicate our common history, and are an gateway to knowledge of history. Cultural heritage and history are managed in the form of things and documents, pictures and boats. It is therefore nice that the hundred-year-old "Vally", managed by the Alta Museum, is mentioned in the setting, along with other important projects, as examples of the important items we have to attend to. Consolidation has given greater professional environments and better organisation and cooperation on joint solutions. This Committee has placed considerable emphasis on digitisation in the sector and sees a high potential to strengthen dissemination and digitise more appropriately. There's also one thing that I want to record. Following the presentation of the referral, the Committee has received feedback from the Buskerud Museum that the description in the comments from the Centre Party and SV on consolidation and the extract from Telemark research is no longer valid in order to describe them. They've had an organizational development that's been very positive. Therefore, I think it is regrettable that neither SV nor the Center Party said anything about this feedback here in the hall, but still chooses to use it as an example of why we need more investigation. But what helps a feedback when the same parties who ask for this do not relate to new information when they get it, and when they are presented with new facts by the actors mentioned in their argument.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4686	There is no doubt that consolidation and reform have been implemented in different ways in different regions. What we're saying from the committee is that you have to learn even more from those who have done it in a good way, and spread those experiences further. The aim of consolidation was, of course, to strengthen the profession, to strengthen the work of collective management, research and dissemination, and to reduce the use of red tape and administration, to promote a common high level of digitisation, investment, magazines, etc. Those who have done this in a good way – and perhaps also with a good will – have done very well. It was therefore very important, I think, that the committee clearly said that there are still museums that can benefit from such a consolidated solution. There were a few things I didn't want to mention in my first post. The Committee agrees, of course, that the Defence Museum will be deployed under the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture. There is a slightly special situation, because the government says in the Communication that the role of the Culture Council should be continued. The red-green parties support this. The majority of the committee doesn't say anything about it. We have to assume that the government has the freedom to do as it pleases – at least they have the red-green support that the Council of Culture will continue to have its role there. Then there are the two areas of action Art in the North and the coast. In the case of Art in the North, a majority has also gone in to include the Outside Art Museum in the South Troms. That's an important message. We also say that in expanding the Nordnorsk Kunstmuseum with a department in Bodø, it is important that it does not go at the expense of the absolutely necessary investments that must come to Tromsø. This has to happen parallel. You have to have new exhibition facilities and investments in Tromsø. It's urgent. Some of us also believe that the Council of State must engage in the governance of the Nordnorsk Kunstmuseum. There are major cooperation problems in and around the museum, and it is the department that appoints the board members. This is one of the few government-run institutions. Here the department has a responsibility to ensure that the cooperation conditions are good. I have to repeat, as I said in the reply: it is very strange when we are going to have a coastal effort in the 50th anniversary of the aquaculture industry, which is now Norway's second largest export industry for oil and gas – probably at some point, at least if the Left gets what they want, it will be bigger than the gas and oil industry – that we do not have a marine museum in such a bet. It's completely incomprehensible. The actors are ready for Hitra. That the majority don't support this, I think it's very strange.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4699	The representative of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4704	The rapporteur asks why the Senterpartiet and SV do not draw a comment in which we describe the content of a report that slaughters the consolidation in the Buskerud Museum, even though the Buskerudmuseum itself in an e-mail to the Committee says that things are much better now. At least that's not how the Center Party operates: that we only listen to one source that claims it. We are dealing with the report that is available, and it is a good example in those areas where consolidation did not work so well. What's very nice about the report from Telemark Research that the Busker Museum has embraced and taken on, by working actively to ensure that their consolidation works much better, is that it actually makes the Busker Museum take over. The e-mail that the committee received, at least carries a message that things are going much better now, and that's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4712	It was said here that the rapporteur had criticised the Centre Party and SV. It was the case in the previous case, I suppose, because I am the case rapporteur in this case. I would like to criticise SV and the Center Party for being too critical of the consolidation, but not just as short of time before a choice. We in the Workers' Party also have some comments that we have not pulled up. It is very important for us to stress the technical-industrial museums and the great legacy we have there. It's an important part of our industrial history, and it takes quite a lot of investment to take care of it. The same applies to museum railways. It is fabulous when these work and can be used, and not so fabulous if they rust down and decay. So this is important to us. We also have a note about Nordenfjeldse Kunstindustriemuseum, which has totally unsustainable locations. This is a very important part of our legacy. There was a small exchange of words between the Council of State and me about these appropriations. I think maybe we talked a little bit past each other by talking about annual appropriations, and he was talking about accumulated during the period, because I think it's about 150 million. kr per year for museum buildings. I think the national cultural building block is about 250 million. kr, and that approx. two thirds go to the museums. We have to get a raise and a bet here, because there are hard projects around the country that require investment, just to keep the collections dry and safe. We had a tragic fire in a museum in Trøndelag quite recently, and then important collections are lost forever. We can't risk it. We've also got the committee with us on a note about the Norwegian Aviation Museum in Bodø, which has been an important matter for the Nordland Workers' Party, it's been played from there, and we're glad that the committee has joined. There are a lot of museums in Norway. There are a lot of people who should have been mentioned, and it's a good part that's also mentioned, but the most important thing is that we put our money where our mouth is, as it says in English: that we actually follow up with appropriations all the fine words about the work done by both museum professionals and volunteers in the museum sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4725	I think we're in a funny sequence. I'm sorry to interfere with the trade committee, but I'm from the Inland, and there we have two old counties, Hedmark and Uppland, who have chosen completely different models for consolidation. If you want an evaluation, it's completely open: Anno and the whole of Hedmark have gone together, while on the Uppland side we still have a slightly larger diversity. It's open for consolidation there, yes, but maybe we should find an intermediary. We have more than telemark research that comes with these contributions. When you look at nearby areas, these are also red-green states. It shows that there's a real spagate within the red-green parts of how you think. Despite the fact that one only has the Mjösa in between, there have been great differences. It means that we are not fully developed politically here.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4732	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 30.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4749	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4756	Movies are probably the most popular and most widely used cultural offer we have. The film industry is also the largest cultural industry and employment networks and is converting too much money per year. It's a big industry, and it's global. The Workers' Party supports the intention of the Central Party's proposal to have more film recordings and productions in Norway, more jobs for filmmakers. On the other hand, we do not necessarily support the instrument of introducing so-called capital requirements for the industry now. The Norwegian film industry has really been running for the last year. The pandemic has cost the film industry a lot, productions are on hold or cancelled, cross-border cooperation is stopped, the money box is empty, and a lot of people don't know where the road goes, also because the corona support schemes haven't hit the production companies. The film industry has been downgraded in the last eight years. It started with a big cut in 2013, when the right side took over from the red-green ones, and then the cut has not been taken back into the budget. You've put in place an incentive scheme, fortunately. This is also good for Norwegian production environments and Norwegian film workers. The incentive scheme should have been done automatically and placed under the Ministry of Economic Affairs after all these years, but we will have to come back to that after the election. Funding and producing films is a complex patchwork of applications and appropriations. No film is funded solely by the Norwegian Film Institute. There is international cooperation with co-productions, the use of incentive schemes in other countries, which may ultimately constitute the funding that realises a film. One of the best movies I've seen in the last few years was 'Out stealing horses'. I saw it at the premiere at Berlinialen in 2019, and I talked to the producer, Hans Petter Moland, about why not a single scene in the film where the action takes place in Trysil was filmed in Trysil. Everything's filmed in Lithuania. It is also about the fact that the Norwegian film industry is exposed to competition and is dependent on the global economic mill that exists out there. The introduction of such a capital requirement would like to spread bones in Norwegian industry as well as strengthen it. We want more Norwegian films recorded in Norway, and we want to strengthen the Norwegian film industry, but we don't think it's right now to go in for such a claim.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4773	Like the representative Trettebergstien, we support the intention of this proposal to get more film and series producers to choose Norway as a recording country. We want to strengthen Norwegian film production, create more work for Norwegian film workers and others working on films related to film production, and we support this intention. For the right, it is important that we create more jobs in private business, and then we need to have a policy in this area that ensures that we are also competitive. The film industry is large, multinational and cross-border. The film economy is international and complex, and funding for the realisation of individual projects often involves a combination of income from very many countries. Much of this that Anette Trettebergstien was inside in his post, is also valid for our argument as to why we do not want to support this proposal. The funding provided by the Norwegian Film Institute for production is not enough alone. The industry itself, the manufacturers, believes that the introduction of capital requirements, as proposed now, will not strengthen Norwegian film production, but it may make it more difficult to find good funding opportunities. We have as mentioned Berlinalen winners and Oscar-nominated film that is Norwegian, but that is not recorded in Norway. Of course, it's sad, but the most important thing we have to think about is that they've been able to communicate a very important story, and we have a Norwegian filmmaker who does it very well internationally. We believe that strengthening the film-incentive system, as introduced by this government as a follow-up to the film-communication, is a more appropriate measure. Here I just have to say that it is a goal for the government and these parties to continue working on the film-incentive system. I can mention that this was also strengthened to 100 million. kr in the revised national budget. It is good that there is now a solid majority for this arrangement, and that the Workers' Party now chooses to push it to its chest after having ridiculed it in this hall after the government introduced it. They have made many negative predictions, which fortunately have not turned on. That has to be one of the reasons why they're now too. The system has worked, and we're going to continue and develop it until maybe it can stand on its own and become an automatic system for film production in the future. We have had to defend this system until this year. With regard to the proposal from the Centre Party and the SV, we consider it to be a budgetary issue, and we will not support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4790	I am very pleased that the Progress Party was able to see through to the establishment of a national film-incentive scheme in its time. That is often the case with the best proposals, which come from the Progress Party. They face hard opposition in the beginning, but then people see that it's fantastic politics anyway. Now is the time to discuss how to strengthen the scheme. That is why it was also a very important breakthrough for the Progress Party in the crisis package earlier this year, when we gave a clear message to the government to strengthen the regime in the revised national budget. This scheme has been a success that has contributed to the addition of several large foreign productions to Norway, several of them in my home country, but also in many other countries around this country. The industry’s own analyses also show how, for every penny that the incentive scheme reimburses, there is still about five times as much money in Norway and in the districts where people actually live. The film environment in Norway has been strengthened as a result of this scheme, and it has also strengthened Norway as a film destination. However, the great international competition around the conditions of these arrangements is hard. Therefore, it is important that the scheme is good and not least that there is predictability in it. That is exactly why the Progress Party has made a high priority that we want a strengthening. These productions also create major ring-effects for other industries, such as the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom. travel life. I have many good examples of that from my home country. International production creates Norwegian jobs and increases the competence of the Norwegian film industry. It contributes to the purchase of goods and services from other industries, and culture-providing businesses sell for billions of dollars and include thousands of businesses and self-employed people. The government and the Advance Party are now strengthening the incentive scheme to obtain foreign film productions to Norway. Such incentives will lead to more content for Norwegian consumers and better skills in the creative industries, and in particular to the benefit of subcontractors. The Progress Party wants to promote the cultural sector as an industry that creates jobs, growth and activity across the country, instead of being a sector primarily linked to publicly supported culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4803	We have come to this proposal in the Central Party after conversations with and calls from various film workers, both directors and others. They do not understand how Norway can use tax money to build up the film industry of other countries, and with it definitely weakening our own. Nor do they understand that no demands are made by the authorities to use Norwegian locations and skilled workers in Norwegian productions with state support, but that we politicians are also holding hands in prison and see that an increasing proportion of our film and television production is being flagged to other countries, and preferably to countries that themselves impose national requirements on their industry for state aid crowns. I recently spoke to the film park at Jar, which has been struggling for years to survive. The desire to invest so that they can become an even more modern and relevant film park has been quite utopian, as their customers, the Norwegian production companies, actually use 45 pst. of all location days in production in foreign studios and film parks. But Jar has got a new spring under the pandemic, because then the studios have been fully booked, and they have gotten capital to finally renew. But whether they are given the opportunity to raise their offer further, as they wish, depends on whether the Norwegian production companies continue to flag off to the same extent as before the pandemic. Unfortunately, as long as there is no capital requirement in order to receive support from the NFI, this is likely to happen. It also fears the Film Federation and the Film Regions, which support our proposal to review the national grant schemes with a view to introducing capital requirements also in Norway in order to rehabilitate and build our own film industry, where the requirement must be developed in cooperation with the entire industry. Surprisingly, only the SV support the proposal, while the rest of the committee makes it clear that the industry itself is opposed to the proposal and refers to the producers. When were the producers the only ones making up the Norwegian film industry? When were the only people serving to make use of cheap labour in low-cost countries, the only ones that make up the film industry in Norway? Fortunately, our film industry is – for the time being – larger than that, but part of it has to travel abroad in order to try to get foreign films and nature to look Norwegian. I am therefore very disappointed with the committee, which does not want to listen to the professionals or those who want to build up our film environments in the regions. I am also disappointed that it may seem like for other parties, except SV, no matter where films with scenes that are supposed to represent Norway, or that have Norwegian culture and/or history as a theme, are recorded. The Film Incentive Scheme looks at both the proposal and the position, as well as the industry, the film regions, the Centre and the Committee want to bet on it. There, everyone is able to see the value of building up our industry and neighboring industries. There, everyone sees the value of those who receive tax money giving something back to Norway that can contribute to jobs. That not everyone sees that the same principle should apply also to other film support schemes on which we use the tax money is strange. In that case, the whole support system has to be re-examined. All right, fine for the Center Party. As it is now, at least not enough is invested in Norwegian films in Norway. With that, I'm addressing the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4820	The representative of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4825	The objectives of film policy shall take account of several and partial cross-cutting considerations. It is initially legitimate to expect that a substantial part of Norwegian film and series production takes place in Norway. Then there's a question of what kind of instruments we might need to use to achieve that. We can, with certain constraints, demand the use of domestic public funds. However, there is a question as to whether we should make such a claim. I doubt that this proposal will help to strengthen the achievement of film policy objectives. If we are to stimulate a professional film industry with a healthy economy, we must facilitate a variety of sources of funding for Norwegian films, both nationally and internationally. This is important for the economic sustainability of the film industry, but also for Norwegian filmmakers to deliver quality content to a Norwegian audience. Film funding is increasingly international. Some sources of funding, in particular incentive schemes and regional funds, require admission in the country concerned. For co-productions too, admissions are normally required in the countries participating in the funding. At the same time, limiting Norwegian producers’ opportunities to international financing would limit Norwegian producers’ ability to finance their productions. I understand that the proposers do not specify or at all suggest anything about what will be a reasonable spending requirement. Indeed, it would be difficult to find a balanced level of any capital requirement. An excessive requirement is likely to be negative, in particular for productions with international ambitions, and in worst cases make these productions impossible to realise. At the same time, too mild a requirement would have little or no effect on the proportion of funds used in Norway and limited impact on the number of recording days made within borders. In addition, the proposers say little about how Norwegian producers will replace falling funding if they turn back the crane for international financing. There is a significant risk that a slightly flexible and well-thought-out demand for consumption in Norway will be counterproductive for Norwegian film production. This is confirmed by Norwegian producers, who have warned against introducing a so-called capital requirement and instead pointed to instruments such as the incentive scheme. I point out that the government is proposing to strengthen the stipulations in the revised national budget with a total framework of 100 million. NOK, and we come back with a proposal for a long-term arrangement of the government budget for 2022. The government also proposes to continue participation in Creative Europe, the EU programme for the cultural and creative sector. I believe it is important that the Norwegian industry participates in activities that stimulate cross-border cooperation through the EEA Agreement, instead of distorting the activity of Norway. I am therefore pleased that a broad majority, having heard the views of the industry, concludes my assessments of the proposal and does not support the introduction of a requirement for national consumption for Norwegian production.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4844	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4849	The film association believes that the large proportion of production days recorded abroad, 45 p.m., is a trend that is increasing and puts us at risk of losing the struggle for skills building and continuity for Norwegian film and television workplaces on several fronts. They, like us in the Center Party, have no objection to admission abroad for artistic or special practical reasons, nor to the fact that some admissions are made abroad because funding is collected, among other things. many fine co-productions. You don't want to ruin the funding opportunities that are there. When you don't put a ceiling on spending, it's to find the good balance. That is what we want in the proposal. But the Film Association and we believe that today's system, without any spending requirements, does not strengthen our own industry or neighboring industries. In what way does the Council of State believe that Norwegian jobs are actually strengthened by the increasing number of admissions abroad, both in the film industry and in industries such as travel and transport? And is it sustainable environmental?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4856	In line with what the representative says, the setting says a note from the Centre Party and SV, which says: ‘The Film Association informed in the Committee’s hearing that 45 pst. of all days of location in the production of Norwegian television drama and films takes place abroad. The trend is increasing.» I'd like to correct this. The figures quoted are from the annual report of the NFI in 2019, which provides a table of recording days in Norway and abroad for feature films with premieres in the years 2014 to 2019. So it doesn't say anything about where the TV drama is recorded. The figure for 2019 is 45 p.m., but there is also the clearly highest proportion of recording days in the rest of the world in the period. The proportion varies significantly during the period, but there is no evidence of any trend. The average for the six years covered by the table is a little over 30 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4867	Thanks for the answer. This makes it very visible that another challenge we have, namely that this is something Norway does not have control of. I sent a question to the minister where I asked for an overview of how many film recording days are being done around in other countries. I also asked how many films are supported by the Film Institute that actually flag out. The answer from the department was, we don't know. I think that's too bad given that it's the tax money we're talking about here. I hope, at least, that the Minister – although he will not use the few figures available from the NFI, nor do they seem good enough – sees the value of trying to get a better overview of which films are filmed where, how many they are, and how much money is actually spent abroad on Norwegian tax money.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4872	I was in my main post on capital requirements – it may be that the representative wants to go in to specify or suggest what they think should be the reasonable spending requirement. I understand that the representative wants to have an iron check on how the funds are to be used, so I would like to hear in reply here what the representative thinks would be the reasonable spending requirement for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4877	I record that I am not getting a response as to whether the minister thinks it is okay that we do not have any control over where the money is used. That's what I think is alarming. He chooses to ask what kind of spending requirements I could imagine. It's not random that we're asking for an investigation, because it's pretty hard out of the blue to establish for a big-time representative. We want this to be investigated in cooperation with the industry to find a much, much better solution than the one that is. The Minister himself outlined where the balance should be, a place that does not go beyond either. We master that in a lot of other ways. Why shouldn't we be able to find a good limit within the film field?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4882	I just want to make it clear that of course we have control of Norwegian money use, there should be no doubt about it. But I see, then, that the representative who has made a proposal to introduce a capital requirement does not really have a bearing on what such a capital requirement should be. I think it just underlines what I have said that this is a bad proposal. Fortunately, the bulk of the population, including the largest opposition party, with which the Centre Party is to cooperate, is against this. It shows why this proposal is simply a bad proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4887	At the same time, the Film Association and also the film regions say that they want a capital requirement. They have different suggestions for that, but they'll have to. They also want it to be investigated. Does the Minister think that he can have an equally demeaning attitude to their relationship to this issue, as to me?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4892	I have made a conclusion, and I have sent a letter to the committee where I have written that the introduction of a demand for consumption in Norway is complex and complex. There is considerable doubt as to whether it will contribute to increasing the achievement of the target. I would therefore advise against introducing such a requirement for Norwegian productions. I am therefore very happy that the Storting does not.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4903	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 31.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4923	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines with replies will be given after contributions from the government. Those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4930	Thank you to the Cooperation Committee on this matter, where the Socialist Left Party, supported by the Workers' Party, supports proposals for strong and independent cultural governance, including: by examining and modifying the roles and functions of the Culture Council and the Culture Tank, by strengthening Norwegian Cultural Fund considerably, and by examining and amending the Culture Act. A total of five proposals are presented by the two parties. Although the rest of the Committee does not support the proposals, it is an overall committee which underlines the importance of strong and independent cultural management where the principle of arm's length is central and where the role of the State is to facilitate a rich and varied cultural life. The Committee is also jointly concerned that cultural policy should focus on values such as diversity, innovation and high artistic and cultural quality. The various parties will continue in the debate to do their best for their views on this matter, but on behalf of the Central Party I would say that this was an interesting issue, and that I think this is something we are going to debate more. The issue has also been highly updated because this year the government has chosen, without dialogue with the people concerned, to move a number of posts and tasks from the Ministry to the Council of Culture. We in the Center Party believe that the process of these movements has been bad, and we believe the Ministry of Culture can largely handle the tasks they have had until this move. We don't like the cultural council becoming more and more like a directorate, which we as a party are not interested in getting in the cultural field as well. There are really no more directorates and additional bureaucracy Norway needs — nor do they need fewer. Our strong opinion on this also contributes to the fact that we do not support several of the proposals that have been promoted today, even though we might be interested in supporting parts of their content. The proposers are so clear that, unlike us, they see a new directorate. But let it be said: we in the Center Party are definitely critical of the Culture Tank and want an investigation, if not in the direction of the directorate that the proposal provides. We choose otherwise to wait to make changes to the Culture Act, which is one of the proposals, until it is discussed later, in a revision of it. To the proposal to increase the Culture Fund considerably: it will be more right for the Centre Party to take it into account when working on the budget, even if we are absolutely in order to increase the framework of the Culture Fund. We're doing it in all of our alternate budgets and we're going to do it if we come in government for the fall, since this weekend we programmed that 1 pst. of the State budget to go to culture. Given how that proportion has sunk among the citizens, it is likely to go well and be able to give the Cultural Fund a real boost.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4947	Norway has strong and unique cultural governance. Since its establishment, the Norwegian Cultural Council has been enlarged and extended its mandate, strengthening Norwegian cultural life. The independence of the Council of Culture, the principle of arm's length distance and decisions taken in the field of art and culture ensure a strong, diverse and independent cultural life. But in recent years a cultural life has been seen under pressure and a situation in which the Cultural Council has had to cut allocations. At the same time, a number of new schemes and establishments have been put in place without it being clear how they relate to the existing cultural management. The cultural idea is the great example, but there is also a mention of the commitment to culture as a nourishment and the gift-enhancing system. The government has done reorganisations in the last year, especially with the Council of Culture, without proper anchoring and proper debate, either in cooperation with the field or here in the Stortinget. The need for a clean-up in particular roles and the Council of Culture has been there for a long time and has been discussed in the past, but now is the time. The ongoing reorganisation of the government should be halted until a proper investigation has been carried out and a proper debate has taken place on the organisation of cultural management as a whole. The SV's objectives for such an investigation and such a debate have several sides. On the one hand – perhaps most importantly – we want an even stronger and more independent cultural council, and we want to strengthen transparency, power distribution and the arm's length principle. On the other hand – which is also important – we will have an even richer cultural offer across the country through stronger municipal and state cultural governance, which can give the cultural field more power in the meeting with and in competition with other well-organised sectors. A possible distinction within the Council of Culture, with the arm's length distance tasks one place and the directorate tasks another, may be the solution. It must be seen in the context of the rest of cultural management, as an alternative organisation of the cultural school system, where the funds go more to the provision of children and young people and to a lesser extent to bureaucracy, or a strengthened cultural law, which also imposes requirements on municipal cultural management. The SV do not point with these proposals to the fait accompli, but we point to the need for debate and investigation. I note that the debate has been going quite well in the last few weeks. It's very joyful, because both the field and the Greatness need to be included in a real, new and comprehensive investigation and process to strengthen our cultural policy infrastructure, both nationally and locally. I'm addressing the suggestions SV is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4962	The representative Freddy André Supreme Court has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4967	Art must be free. This is ensured by the management of state resources for art and culture in accordance with the principle of arm's length. The distance principle of arms length shall ensure a necessary distance from political interests and that no organised interests affect the exercise of free artistic and cultural discretion. Representatives of Andersen, Fagerås and Hövstegård believe that there is a need for a number of new studies of cultural management, in order to strengthen the principle of arm’s length distance, strengthen the directorate’s functions and ensure the autonomy of the art institutions. We do not need further investigations to paralyze the basic principles and values of cultural management. I do not see the need for a new investigation into the question of sharing the Council of Culture with a view to bringing together directorate functions in a new directorate, where the Culture Tank is also included. Norwegian Culture Councils have been thoroughly reviewed twice before, by a selection of two different governments. Both studies discussed the question that representatives are promoting the sharing of Norwegian Cultural Councils into two functions, and both studies did not recommend sharing the Council of Culture. A fragmentation will weaken the professional environment, and the combination of arm's length distance tasks and directorate tasks will maximise the use of competences and resources. The arm's length principle is the backbone of Norwegian cultural management. The Ministry assesses the possibility of legislating this principle in the context of the ongoing revision of the Culture Act. The representatives believe that a new assessment of the Culture Council must be seen in the context of the Culture Tank and the Cultural School Bag – we have had that debate earlier today. In the work on the news of art and culture for, with and by children and young people, the department went out and asked for input. On that basis, we have concluded that both the Norwegian Cultural Council and the Cultural Tank are central bodies for the development of art and culture for children and young people. The cultural sector and cultural policy can provide not only art and culture for children and young people. We are dependent on commitment cooperation with other sectors, especially the education sector. The government will therefore stick to the Culture idea because we need a central body that can be a bridge builder and help to ensure this cooperation. The government does not want to create new structures, but rather strengthen the structures already in place regionally and locally, in cooperation with the county councils and municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4984	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4989	We saw in the treatment of the state budget for the current year that a number of measures were taken, both from the State budget and from the Directorate-General – let's call it that – or at least to the Directorate-General of the Council of Culture, and a number of moves were also made from the arm's-length section of the Norwegian Cultural Council to the Directorate-General. In addition, the Ministry is now in a new process, a new round of moves and proposals for moving from the State budget to the Directorate, in particular the institutions. This has been reacted to by more people in the field, and it has been warned against doing that kind of reorganization without a good and broad dialogue. Does the Council of State think this is a good process?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4994	Yes, it is, because the changes were first announced in the Culture Communication, and the concrete changes were presented to the Stortinget in the context of the state budget for 2021. We've had this debate many times here in this room. The organisation of tasks and the allocation of responsibilities between a department and the underlying establishments shall be left to the department to decide. I believe we have notified this in the cultural message and also followed up responsibly afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e4999	It would have been alarming if the Council had not fulfilled its constitutional obligations to anchor a minimum formally correctly in the Storting. My question was whether this was a good process, a process involving the beneficiaries who are being moved, relocated, shaded and selected in these changes that the government has now made in two rounds, first in the budget for the current year, and then a new round is under way. I record a sharp reaction from the institutions that are included, especially in this last round. So my question was not whether everything is on the lookout. The question is whether the process has been good. I would like the Council of State to answer that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5004	Yes, it has been. As I said, this was announced in the cultural message. Then there has also been dialogue, and then we have presented this to the Storting in the ordinary way, in connection with the state budget. We have. I would also like to say that now representatives have promoted, for example. a proposal to split up the Council of Culture. I don't know if the representative has read the class struggle today, but there the Culture Council itself, both the Council leader Lars Petter Hagen and Maria Utsi, who is the Vice-Chairman of the Norwegian Cultural Council, says that this is not a wise proposal. The representative may have the opportunity to elaborate on this, or he may comment on it in addition to the debate, that the Culture Council itself – the Foundation, the Council of Ministers, which is a name it also falls under – considers that the proposal that the representative has been involved in promoting is not an appropriate proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5012	The Council – with great R – I tend to refer to that part of the Council of Culture. It might be a good example of some of the ineffectiveness that characterizes a two-part organ, which, on the one hand, has arm's length distance tasks, where it is important to preserve artistic freedom, and which, on the other hand, performs directorship tasks on behalf of the government. Well, that's a good illustration of the point. I am very pleased with the debate that has come as a result of the SV's proposal, where some disagree with the possible outlined solution that SV points to. Others support it. It is a pleasure to hear that the Council of State is reading the newspaper Class struggle, which is a good newspaper. During the presentation of this proposal, a number of actors in the field, i.e. those supported by the Culture Council, considered this to be a good proposal. My final question is probably just whether the Council of State agrees that we need a stronger cultural council with a clearer arm's length distance.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5021	Of course I'm reading the class fight. I often joke about saying I'm the class fight. Often you have to explain this, but if you have made a class trip and come from a working class background, I think you get into the back of the class struggle as well. But I would also like to say that the Culture Council, the Council or the Council – with great R – on which the representative was involved – says the following: ‘In 2013, the Culture Council – the Council and the Administration – proposed that the various functions should be named separately.’ They're not talking about dividing this into two units with each of their administrations, they're saying that they could get each of their names. Then they write that so far this has not been followed up politically, and therefore they are pleased that the Minister of Culture – i.e. I – says that the time has now finally come to assess these questions. I can say that we are driving and assessing, and we are going to come back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5033	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Thirty-two.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5052	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 10 minutes to the President, 5 minutes to each of the other party groups and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5059	A few moments in history, we never forget. March 27, 1980, was such a moment. That a platform in the North Sea had overturned was a totally unreal news to get. I was 21 years old, and my relationship with platforms was created by reports and exciting stories about the adventure that happened out there in the North Sea – many new jobs, and what that meant for our country. The intensity of the newscasts for the first few days caught us, and we just got the volume. We didn't realize that anything like this could happen, and that this was a reality not far away. But it was really and changed the life of many people in a moment: leaving who lost one of theirs, survivors who were through traumatic moments, and all around these individuals and families who were affected by this at the time and until today. To hit the story again the first time in the spring of 2019 and then work on it again in the spring of 2021 has been demanding. I would like to thank the Committee on very good cooperation in this matter. I would also like to thank the Kielland network for the dialogue we have had these years. The Kielland network has done a considerable amount of voluntary work and has communicated its thoughts and wishes to us in a good way in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. The Network’s clear message and objectives when they contacted the Committee in 2019 were to re-examine because they had too many unanswered questions after the work done by the original investigation commission. They were also clear that, in their opinion, there were both uncertainties and unclear processes in the work that had been done, and the network also pointed out the poor work that was done around the survivors and left behind after the accident. In 2019 the Supervisory and Constituent Committee, following careful assessments, concluded that a new Landfill Investigation Commission was not right, but chose to present a proposal to the Parliament to ask the Riksaudition to investigate how the authorities have taken care of their responsibilities in relation to the Alexander L. Kielland accident with regard to the following three points: investigation and clarification of the causes of the Alexander L. Kielland accident, and the adequacy of the investigation on the responsibilities of the accident, the follow-up to recommendations from the investigation work, including the implementation of measures to prevent and prevent new accidents, and the follow-up of the survivors and survivors. The National Audit Office delivered its report to Stortinget on 9 March 2021. As usual, the National Audit Office has done a thorough and good job, and I would like to stress the competence and experience of the National Audit Office in looking at how management follows up matters, and the consequences of any deficiencies. The Court of Auditors summarised five conclusions: there is no basis for carrying out a new investigation of the Alexander L. Kielland accident. The authorities did a thorough job of clarifying the causes of the accident, but some weaknesses may have contributed to a weakening of confidence in the investigation. The responsibilities surrounding the accident were not fully investigated. The authorities have followed up the recommendations of the review. The survivors did not receive follow-up, and the follow-up of the survivors was not good enough. The National Audit Office has given the Kielland network the right to see that there were weaknesses in the Commission’s work, and that this may have contributed to a weakening of its confidence in the investigation, among others. the involvement of persons and environments in the investigation which could be called into question for reasons of stability. The Court of Auditors considers that this has not, however, affected the outcome of the investigation. The National Audit Office further notes in the report that the investigation commission was poor at communicating with the affected en route, and that the production of the Commission’s work is upresis and sometimes difficult to understand. The National Audit Service also grants the Kielland network the right to have the responsibilities of the accident not fully clarified. It has been pointed out that the French report could contribute to clarification if it was translated. The National Auditorate has also done that job and states that there are many coincidental findings in the two reports, although the responsibility for any errors is not shared equally. What about further investigation to find more answers? The National Audit Office considers that there is no basis for a re-examination, and this is justified by the fact that it is not likely that significant new information could be generated so long after the accident. Large parts of the technical evidence are gone, and even new analyses and simulations will be difficult to obtain more reliable information than the basis of 1980. It will also be difficult to find reliable and accurate information on responsibilities. The study has also shown the lack of both routines and control in a growing sector: lack of safety training, lack of procedures for recording incidents and no procedures for controlling closed and open hatches and doors. There is no doubt that this also made the Commission’s investigations more difficult. Today, there is a completely different regime, among other things. on the basis of lessons learned from this accident – that’s good. In summary, the Riksrevision states that the authorities did a thorough job of clarifying the causes of the accident, and that the recommendations of the investigation have been followed up in retrospect. The most serious thing – and today almost incomprehensible – is that survivors and survivors were not followed up well enough. The survivors were naturally given medical help after being rescued, but those who did not need this were sent home without any kind of psychiatric assistance in the emergency phase. Those who came to the hospital received such help. However, the lessons learned after investigating the accident in retrospect have been important for the follow-up that is taking place today following major accidents. Even more incomprehensible and serious is the fact that the authorities opted for the follow-up of the survivors, despite the fact that the medical profession pointed out the need for this. We've learned from this today, but it's a skinny comfort for those who didn't get help. In the vote, SV promotes a proposal for further studies, which they themselves will explain. Furthermore, a Joint Committee is in line with the conclusions of the National Audit Office. The Committee also wishes to show respect for and to contribute to the thorough and important work of the Kielland network. It is therefore an overall committee that promotes the four draft decisions of the opinion. The most important thing is I, where the Storting strongly regrets the poor follow-up of survivors and left behind after the accident in April 1980. This is also followed up in II, by asking the government to ensure that a study is carried out in cooperation with the Kielland network in order to gain knowledge of the consequences of the lack of follow-up. Furthermore, in III, the government is asking the Stortinget to engage in dialogue with the Kielland network to work to gather the network's collected material and to contribute to documentation. A lot is done, and something has to be done. The Committee hopes that the Kielland network and the government in good dialogue can find out. History, facts, documentation, descriptions of experiences and views seen by survivors and abandoned will be important to get in place. We hope that the Kielland network will continue to contribute to this, and appreciate the goal they have set for their work: truth and reconciliation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5078	This time I will start by thanking the case rapporteur for a well-worked job and not least for a good review of a complicated matter in its introduction now. The date of March 27, 1980, is always going to be in Norwegian history as one of our darkest days, with 123 dead and 89 survivors, who have, of course, been affected by the experience they had. It was a tragedy. The fact that when the Commission of Inquiry presented its report in March 1981, very many of those concerned did not rely on the conclusions reached there. It's come to shape the lives of many for over 40 years now. We're all affected by the single stories that are told. We were also affected by the meeting of the control committee with the Kielland network after they had been in contact with the department in the past, and the background they had for a desire to go deeper into the matter. As the rapporteur explained, we then chose the somewhat untraditional, but possibly, way that the Storting asked the Riksrevision to take that assignment. I would like to say that the Riksrevision has provided a thorough report. Where they are critical, they use in particular the concept of ‘serious’ about the lack of follow-up of the survivors and ‘strongly critical’ of the survivors. One of the points that one wanted to go into the matter again was – as the case-rapporteur said – the French report, which had not been translated. Then it turns out in the report that the Riksrevision has now produced for us that many conclusions were consistent between the Norwegian report of 1981 and the French report, including what has been discussed by many, as the Riksrevision says, that the theory of explosion appears unlikely. It was one of the things that was clarifying in terms of the transparency of the French report. Lots of things went wrong that time. There was a lack of legislation, there was a lack of control, there was a lack of safety risk systems. There was a lot of failure. There was also a lot of failure, as the Riksrevision points out, regarding the follow-up on the health side in retrospect. What we have also been informed about in this matter is that as regards both the state of safety, public oversight and public legislation, and also as regards the follow-up on the health side, the situation today is quite different from that in 1980. That's good. So the Riks revision says that there is no basis for re-examination, that there is no reason to draw the main conclusion of the investigation commission on the cause of the accident in doubt. They say it is unlikely that research could produce significant new information over 40 years after. It's with a little bit of resentment we have to agree with that conclusion. This is precisely why the proposals presented by the rapporteur are important, not least a public complaint from, hopefully, a unanimous increase in the lack of health follow-up mentioned in the report. We are very concerned that the Kielland network has established a high level of expertise and knowledge about the accident — and also about accidents and dealing with that type of traumatic situation. I understand that there has been a good dialogue with the Ministry of Health and a proposal to ask the National Knowledge Centre for Violence and Traumatic Stress to follow-up in close cooperation with the Kielland network. A historical record of the accident and the work in retrospect, in close cooperation with the Kielland network, we have calculated that it may be the Ministry of Labour, with its responsibility for the HMS and the Petroleum Control, which are closest to follow-up. Let me end by stressing that the aim is for those projects to be developed in close cooperation with the Kielland network's expertise.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5103	First of all, I would like to thank the President-in-Office and also the Chairman-in-Office of the Committee for a thorough review of the matter, and also for the work done by the President-in-Office, and for good cooperation throughout the Committee. I also want to pay tribute to the National Audit Office for a thorough work, and not least to the Kielland Network for good meetings, hearings and recordings. I was eleven years old when this accident happened. One does not remember so much from that time, but as a local politician in Rogaland since 1995, I can at least say with my hands on the heart that this is a matter that has shaped the whole state, although there are also many people who come from other countries and elsewhere. It is a demanding matter, and especially for those who have been and have been affected by this accident. I will also be allowed to express compassion for all the survivors and left behind after the accident. It made the impression of hearing the stories of both the survivors and the survivors. Such an accident and such a brutal experience we know can be demanding for those affected. The rapporteur was involved in the report to the Riksrevision itself, but I would nevertheless like to point out that the report we are about to deal with today is one of the issues of a 2019 playout, when the Stortinget asked the Riksrevision to investigate how the authorities have taken responsibility for the accident. Like previous speakers, I would like to stress that the Riksrevision has delivered a neat and good report, very thorough from Stortingen's order. The National Audit Office has also made clear conclusions, and one conclusion was that there is no basis for a new investigation. There's something I'm getting behind. A new investigation is unlikely to provide significant new information on the cause of the accident. However, it is important, and one of the things that is important for us to discuss today, that the strong criticism in the National Audit Office's report is linked to the follow-up of survivors and survivors. Although the Riksrevision states that systems for the care of survivors and survivors of disasters are now significantly strengthened, it does not help the survivors after the Alexander L. Kielland accident. Although we are not in favour of a new investigation, we take the Kielland network seriously and will primarily regret the inadequacy of the survivors and survivors after the accident, and that the survivors have not been seen as part of the accident and therefore have not been followed up. With the routines and the knowledge we now have, it's still hard to understand that one couldn't follow up better that time. I am pleased that there is an overall committee that underlines the seriousness, and that the Storting is now strongly regretting the inadequacy of the follow-up. I refer to the proposal that lies in this case where we ask the government to give the National Centre of Knowledge on Violence and Traumatic Stress the task of conducting a study on survivors and relatives after the Alexander L. Kielland accident to learn about the consequences of the lack of follow-up after the accident, and the accident itself, for human physical and mental health, and I am pleased that we have learned that this study is to be done in cooperation with the Kielland network. I hope that the two proposals that exist can help to calm the survivors and leave them behind after this terrible accident, and I hope that the close cooperation that Stortinget is asking for them to be drawn into becomes a reality. When Stortinget says it so clearly, I take it as a matter of course that the Kielland network is included in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5122	First, I would like to thank the Advocate General and the entire Committee for their good cooperation. This is a difficult matter, and I am happy that we have managed to find solutions together. I would also like to thank the Kielland network for their work and the recordings they have made. Alexander Kielland-Ulukka was an accident an entire nation never forgets. After all, as the years went on, it was not the same relationship with it, although the image of the four pontongs remaining in the sea is something that will never be forgotten. But for many, Alexander Kielland-uluka is more than a serious event in memory. The 123 dead were some of their fathers, spouses, siblings, and children. The 89 survivors came from it with life, but lost workmates, and many lost soul peace. Accidents got into life forever. The accident was the start of a life that was not — the empty chair at the kitchen table, the conversation they never had. For me, the seriousness of the survivors went too far for me almost 20 years after the accident when I got a close cooperation with one of the survivors. I wonder at first why he slid, until I got history. He was one of those who raised their lives, but who wiped out the rest of his life. It has given me lasting traces. 40 years later, the Riksrevision has reviewed the way in which the governmental authorities handled their responsibilities until the accident. I would like to thank the Riksrevision for a good, understandable and respectful report. It's demanding to go back in time this way, and it's a new job for the National Audit Office. The most serious thing is how the survivors were left to themselves. The Ministry of Social Affairs deliberately chose not to follow up on the survivors. The survivors did not get the help they needed. This happened at a time when one knew how important follow-up was for people to live with events. The board of directors did not take responsibility for those who were set back. The experience that no one took responsibility was reinforced by the way the accident was examined. The process was closed, and the report came in a language that people did not understand. The Norwegian Veritas was the controller of the platform and received a double role in the investigation. This doesn't create trust. There are good reasons why the survivors have little confidence in the investigation of the causes of the accident. However, the national audit considers that the review carried out was thorough and that the conclusions are essentially 40 years later. The national audit estimates that it is unlikely that more research will provide significant new information on the cause of the accident. Large parts of the technical evidence are gone, and new analyses will be uncertain. I'm in agreement with the Riksrevision in this. At the same time, we must correct as far as we can, that errors as the government did 40 years ago. The Committee asks the Stortingen to cause the poor follow-up of the survivors and survivors. This is how we clearly say that the handling was not good enough. We ask for a study on the survivors and the survivors, and for all relevant information on their experiences and experiences to be preserved. In this work all stories must be made available, and if it is still possible to help those who need it, it should be done. The documentation and the study are not just of historical interest. The work must point forward. We need to identify which area of security work we need to strengthen and be good at in order to prevent major accidents. The ignition of the socket must never become more important than the life and safety of workers. This is the only way the cause here today can give confidence to the powers of government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5141	I would like to begin by joining in the strong regret that a unanimous Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs is promoting to the survivors and the survivors of the Alexander L. Kielland accident, for the total lack of follow-up they have experienced. The National Audit Service describes in detail how survivors after the accident received a very poor follow-up, and that they left no follow-up at all. It's serious, and it's heartbreaking. There are many things that have made a big impression on me in dealing with this matter. I was born in good time after the disastrous day and did not know the matter as well as before. Therefore, it made a very impression to listen to the affected and hear how what happened then, to such an extent still affects them, to this day. I can't fit into how it feels, but I want to express my strongest compassion. The thorough investigation by the National Audit Office has also revealed many and significant weaknesses in the original investigation of the accident. There is a lack of clarification of responsibilities, the involvement of the inhabile parties in the investigation, issues that have not been adequately addressed, and archives with information that may be relevant to the accident, which until that day are closed and hidden. We may not be able to answer all the unanswered questions. In SV we impose a significant authority on the National Audit Office's recommendations. I would like to stress that. However, even if there were questions that could not be answered, we believe that we owe them at least to try. There is a great need to calm down this matter, to close this tragic chapter in Norwegian history. I believe it is difficult – if not impossible – to achieve such a sentence in the case as long as the confidence in the original investigation is so low among the affected, and there are still significant, unanswered questions that the concerned experience that have not been tried or clarified by official Norway. The trust which the survivors rightly do not have in the official handling of the case by Norway must be restored. That's a consideration Stortinget must consider, and that's a consideration Stortinget must take. There is no Riksrevisionen or should be assessed. A new process of truth and reconciliation can help restore confidence, even if such a process would not be able to answer all the unanswered questions. A new process involving the concerned, which brings up-to-date study competence, and which ensures, in particular, transparency, will be the most appropriate attempt to ensure a reunited story story that can be shared by all parties. Therefore, SV proposes in this case to ask the Presidency to prepare and submit proposals for such a process during the autumn of 2021. Finally, although there was no agreement on that proposal in the committee, I would like to thank the Committee and, in particular, the rapporteur, Svein Harberg, for a very thorough work on the matter, and not least to arrive at some points of agreement which could at least help to improve the situation somewhat. In particular, I would like to draw up the dialogue and the contribution that Stortinget is now asking the government to make to the Kielland network, in order to contribute to the work of gathering and making available the work, documentation and material collected by the network. The competence of the network, which they have acquired, is recognised by this whole room. I am very pleased about that, and I also hope that the wish of the Kielland network to set up a research project is something that can be included in this work. With that, I take up the SV's proposal on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5158	The representative Freddy André Supreme Court has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5163	The Kielland accident is the biggest industrial accident in Norway's history. 123 people died, 89 were saved, and even more relatives lost some of their closest ones in the accident. As the National Audit Office's investigation shows, the accident is still not thoroughly investigated, so Red supports SV's proposal for a new investigation. Firstly, the Riksrevision reveals that there are deficiencies in the 1981 review. Secondly, significant and important progress has been made since then to provide new information on the causes of the accident, both the direct causes and the more underlying causes of management and organisation. Thirdly, there are still time witnesses who have not been questioned. Fourthly – and that may be the most important thing – we have a commitment to the survivors to do everything we can to get the facts on the table about the accident that hit them, so that they can finally know the truth, put the doubt behind them and move on. In addition, we are not yet sure whether we know the full and complete truth about the role of the Norwegian Veritas, who was responsible for inspection and control, may have had, directly or indirectly, in the Commission which carried out the 1981 review. What is certain, on the other hand, is that when the Riks revision reveals significant shortcomings in the previous review, and more than 80 pst. Of the survivors, they say they do not trust that investigation, we believe that the Storting should take hold. The message from the survivors and the survivors, from NITO, from Tekna, from the leaders and also from the oil trade union SAFE is clear: the Kielland accident must be re-examined. We believe that the Storting must ensure a new study in which we apply new skills and technologies, both survivors and workers' representatives, must be represented, and, in particular, we must have the greatest possible transparency about the study. We also agree with the requirement that the Kielland network and the trade unions should be involved in creating a mandate for such a new study. Those who have been sent out to the North Sea under difficult and dangerous weather conditions have provided Norway with huge oil and gas revenues, but many of them have paid a very high price, not least the North Sea divers and the survivors after the Alexander L. Kielland accident. Whereas there is a particular responsibility on the State to carry out thorough investigations in the event of major accidents, both in the interests of the persons concerned and not least in order to prevent the occurrence of new accidents; 41 years after the Kielland accident, the Norwegian State has not provided an adequate investigation into how and why this disaster occurred. The survivors and survivors say they are struggling to move on as long as there is still doubt that the truth of the accident has come to a close. Nor should the Storting put the matter behind us and move on until we have done everything in our power to get all the facts on the table. We owe it to the survivors, to the survivors and to all those who work in the oil and gas industries, in the offshore and other industries. They deserve to know that we elected people are doing everything we can to investigate and prevent industrial accidents, like the one that hit Alexander L. Kielland on March 27, 1980. For as NITO, Tekna, the Leaders and SAFE write in the letter they sent to the elected ones of ours: Only then can we end this story with dignity and respect for the lefty and not least the 123 people who lost their lives in the accident.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5176	The National Audit Office has carried out a thorough investigation into the work of the authorities on the Alexander L. Kielland accident. The study points, inter alia, to: that the survivors did not receive follow-up in the post-accident period. It also shows that the survivors do not experience the help they needed. Many missed follow-up from the local auxiliaries. It is very regrettable that neither the survivors nor the survivors received the help they should have received from the authorities of the day. I am therefore pleased that the Committee has proposed that the Storting should regret this inadequate follow-up. This is important for those who are left. I also think it is wise to gain more knowledge about the needs of the survivors and relatives after the accident, as the Storting seems to be unanimous in adopting today. The report is also clear that there has been a great deal of follow-up to those affected by crises and disasters in the years following the Kielland accident. Since 2001, municipalities have been required to have plans for psychosocial follow-up following major serious incidents occurring within the municipality. Responsibility for psychosocial follow-up and preparedness is also highlighted in the Law on Municipal Health and Care Services through legislative changes in 2017. The Health Directorate’s Guide to Psychosocial Responses in Crisis, Accidents and Disasters, first published in 2011, has been important for the work of municipalities and specialist health services on crisis and disaster. This underlines, inter alia: the need for early, proactive help. Knowledge, competence and capacity are other important factors that have contributed to a more robust system. The establishment of the National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress and the Regional Resource Centres on Violence, Traumatic Stress and Suicide Prevention have provided more research-based knowledge and empowerment against services. The significant strengthening of mental health and drug services both in municipalities and in specialist health services has also been important. The help is more available and close to now than it was at the time. It provides better conditions to provide good help when the crisis is at hand and to respond to the needs of you over time. The work that the Storting decides to do today will be important for the survivors of the Kielland accident, but I am also fully convinced that this will provide knowledge that will benefit others as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5191	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5197	Thank you to the Council of State for your attendance on the proposals we are making. I know that the Council of State was aware that such a proposal would be made. As the Council of State has realized today, we are very concerned about the contribution of the Kielland network, especially because when the knowledge centre on violence and traumatic stress gets into this situation, it is 40 years old. There may be some variation in the desire to participate in the type of study that may be relevant here. Therefore, my question becomes to the Council of State whether he has been given any idea of how we can use the competence of the Kielland network to build up the follow-up to what seems to be a unanimous decision in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5204	I think it is quite natural that when we give this mission to the National Knowledge Centre, it will also be that they should involve the Kielland network in this work from the very beginning in designing the ways in which this is to be done, and also in the follow-up. This is a way of working as the National Knowledge Centre has experience with other similar tasks, so I am convinced that the Kielland network will experience that they are getting well involved in the work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5211	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5216	I would also like to begin by expressing my condolences to the survivors and leaving behind the Alexander L. Kielland accident on March 27, 1980. The accident was a disaster in which 123 people died. Many individuals and families were hit hard. The National Audit Office's report is an important contribution to the history of the accident and its follow-up. We must recognise that the petroleum industry naturally has a potential for major accidents. Safety is fresh and requires continuous follow-up and improvement. The government's ambition is that Norwegian petroleum activities will be world leaders in HMS. This ambition was anchored in Stortinget through the treatment of Meldning. St. 12 for 2017-2018 on HMS in the petroleum industry. It is important to say that the current HMS regime in the petroleum industry has been developed on the basis of just the historical experience we have since the start of Norwegian petroleum activities. Different events and investigations as well as extensive dialogue with the parties have been very important for development. It was, in particular, the Alexander L. Kielland accident that, understandably and correctly, led to extensive changes to both the legislation and the supervisory system in Norway. Following the accident, the authorities agreed on a new control regime clarifying the division of responsibilities between authorities. Important clarifications according to the roles and responsibilities of the authorities came with the Petroleum Act in 1985. The responsibility of the owner and operator was made clear, and the Oil Directorate, later the Petroleum Authority, was given overall responsibility for safety oversight of the base. The overall authority's responsibility is now with the Petroleum Authority. The Riksrevision concludes that the authorities have followed up the recommendations of the investigation following the Kielland accident and that there has been a significant improvement in the safety of mobile devices after the accident – although the Riksrevision, as has been said here, also points to areas where the authorities and we as society have not followed up. The development of the current Norwegian-socket safety regime has been a long-term development. From a legislative framework that specified in detail the requirements for structures, technical equipment and operations, from the 1980s, a regulatory framework with a high level of functional requirements was developed that emphasises the responsibility of actors to set criteria for, and follow up, their own activities. Supervision of the activities, which at the start-up stage were characterised by a high degree of detailed control by the authorities, has gradually developed to focus on the accountability of actors and the systematic follow-up of their own activities. Such an approximation of powers is important in an industry characterised by a high level of competence and very rapid technological development. This regime, with functional requirements and clear accountability of industry, a system-based monitoring of the emphasis on two- and three-party cooperation, is well adapted to the petroleum industry. There is also a broad consensus that the HMS regime has contributed over time to the positive development of the HMS level in the petroleum industry and that the safety level in the industry is evenly high above. Why do I spend time on this? Well, because this accident was so huge, and the consequences were so big that it's also important in retrospect that we learned the crucial thing about the development of HMS standards and the safety of the socket – not because we can guard against accidents, but because we can also think in this area that we should do everything we can to ensure that it doesn't happen similarly again. It's also an important legacy after the Alexander L. Kielland accident. It also means that the established HMS regime will continue to be important. It's a high risk potential and rapid development, it's important that we take care of good party cooperation while also thinking about how to further develop this for the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5231	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5236	Governments spent a lot of time on learning and continuance thinking. It is an important aspect of investigating a disaster of the dimension of this accident. As underlined by the Council of State, HMS is important in all work and what is going on on on a Norwegian base. However, the Riksrevision report reports on the lack of evidence and on the lack of studies on alternative causes of fatigue fractures on the rigging. Many, including The Kielland network wishes to have a multidisciplinary research project to address possible concerns about causes. I would then like to ask the Council of State whether he agrees that through the decisions taken in this matter, and in the dialogue with the Kielland network, there is an opportunity for research projects to clarify any shortcomings in the Commission's report.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5243	Thank you for the question. I have to say that the way I read e.g. Conclusion No 3, or a proposal for Decision III of the Storting, where we are just talking about a work to gather and make available work on documentation and collected material in a historical documentation related to the Alexander L. Kielland accident, I believe clearly also concerns research pages. Without therefore being able to promise a full research project on a standing basis, I believe that there are many important issues that need to be followed up. It is also very clear from Stortinget that you want to continue the dialogue with the Kielland network, and we have to make sure that. And then we also have to make sure that these things don't go away between departments, that can happen sometimes, but that we follow them up and coordinate well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5254	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5261	I see that the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs has done a thorough job with this setting, but I still want to express my disappointment that such a large majority is pleased with the conclusion that the Kielland network is so disappointed, as they have stated very clearly. I have previously told the Storting about my father who is surviving after this disaster. He is one of quite a number who, with the background of this accident, has felt failed by the state. It's not primarily because of the lack of follow-up that people have felt failed; it's all that the old investigation report didn't look at, and didn't take over. A lot of people have done a lot of work in recent times to gain more knowledge. All the knowledge that has emerged in recent times has raised a number of new questions that have not been answered. The size has had poor experience with Commission decision-making in the past, following the ‘Scandinavian Star’ disaster. What I don't think should be used as an argument for not making that decision in other cases, precisely because this is another accident, with other questions, and it suits other people. One event and one review report will fail to raise this threshold so that other accidents are more difficult to detect. I also think that the 7 pst. which in the studies have said that they will not reopen the case, will be weighted too much. After all, it's 93 pst. which does not have this position. There is a need to look more closely at many different factors associated with this accident. For this reason, I argued that it is true, as the chairman of the committee says, and as was said in the change of line, that there is an opening in the setting to launch a multidisciplinary research project that can answer several of the questions that the Kielland network has not yet received answers to. In the end, I would like to share with my father the experience of investigating the accident that was. My father told the police about his observations of the accident and was met with laughter and sneezing. He has never been given access to the documents from the right-hand side. It's like they don't exist or it wasn't listed at all. This is just one of a lot of reasons that speaks to reopen the case. I would also say that today he again feels that he has failed by the state. He says to me that he is at least satisfied with my efforts, but in this context it is a meager comfort.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5274	The theme of the Kielland accident is regularly debated in public space. Most people who speak the Minister of Health, Lerbrackks and my dialect, know someone or know someone who has either lost someone or knew someone who died in the accident. Both the operator and the rigging company had offices in Stavanger. Even I have acquaintances who were directly involved, and my later spouse spent the night after the accident with a friend and her two children, whose husband and father were missing and later confirmed dead. It's clear that such things set deep tracks. That's why I've always been too transparent about problems with HMS and risk minimisation related to activity on the socket, and that's why I also understand that it's painful when you feel that you haven't got a response to key questions related to a disaster of this magnitude. I had hoped that this treatment would lead to a solution where one could find out the many loose threads that survivors and survivors know about in this matter. That is why I am very pleased that the Council of State confirms that today's decisions can open this up, through the government dialogue with the Kielland network, and that it can initiate a multidisciplinary research project that can nestle in these threads. The people involved need to know that they have received a few more answers to what led to fatigue cracks and breaks in the platform leg. There were many things that were wrong with Alexander L. Kielland, but fortunately – as many have said here – it has given as a result that HMS and security have become much, much better. With a research project now, I think that more people could have calmed down with those conclusions, so I hope and believe that it will be the solution to this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5286	I just want to thank you for your commitment to the debate. It shows that many people care about what happened and how it was experienced in retrospect. It's also important.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5291	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. Thirty-three.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5308	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines with replies will be given, after contributions by members of the Government, and those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5315	The representative proposal of the Progress Party focuses on a major and serious societal problem. That children are subjected to violence and abuse concerns all of us and must be combated. It has first and foremost consequences for those affected, and in many cases causes significant physical and mental problems for the rest of their lives. As referred to in the proposal, with reference to the NRC, an average of 17 years goes by between the time an assault is committed and the time it is reported to the police. Today’s limitation periods may mean that it could be too late to judge the offender by criminal liability and give the victims the retribution they deserve. In the letters of the Council of State to the Committee, it is noted that police efforts to detect and investigate such crime have increased markedly in recent years, and that in this respect it is important that criminal limitation periods are long enough to ensure adequate protection for victims of such offences. For the most serious offences, there is no limitation period. For example, in the case of killings, rape and sexual intercourse with children between 14 and 16 years of age, where the limitation period was abolished following a government proposal in 2014. Towards the end of last year, Stortinget adopted the treatment of Prop. 66 L for 2019-2020 and Innst. 41 L for 2020-2021 a number of legislative changes that affect the limitation period in the case of sexual offences against children. This applies in particular to actions that were insulted and unable to tell us about until a long time has passed. The limitation period was also adopted in the event of a breach of the abolition obligation in specific offences affecting children. Examples of this are abuse in close relationships, sexual mutilation, rape by children under 14 years of age and gross sexual intercourse with children between 14 and 16 years of age. In connection with the proceedings in Stortinget on 3 November 2020, Decision No. 50 to the government, it was asked to ‘have carried out an overall review of the rules on the limitation of sexual and violent offences against minors and come back to the Grand Duchy with proposals for amendments to the laws increasing the general level of limitation periods for such offences’. The right agrees with the proposers on the direction of this matter and also has a national meeting decision to remove the limitation periods in these cases, but will nevertheless, in compliance with the order given to the government, wait for a comprehensive review of this important area.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5333	I want to start by saying that we are very happy with the changes that, among other things, are cross-political. was done in 2014, where the limitation period for killing, lecturing and sexual intercourse with children between the ages of 14 and 16 was removed. What Foss referred to, the changes and the decisions that were made in connection with Prop. 66 L for 2019–2020, was also very good. The working party is absolute for a holistic review, in the exact same way that it is the Right. At the same time, we believe that when the Progress Party brings forward the proposal they are making today, it is right to support it. That's what I think I'm right because it's in line with what the committee said earlier. It's quite natural for the Storting to take a call-in decision asking the government to make a proposal that eliminates the limitation period for all types of sexual abuse, that it will be seen in the context of the work already being done by the Department. Therefore, I found it a pity that we could not be reconciled with the proposal that is being made here today. It is a fact – we know this well, we have talked a lot about it – that it takes a long time before a reporter reports an abuse experienced in childhood. We know it takes an average of 17 years. Hence, this change is very important. We have previously, in the appeal decision that we are talking about here, asked the government to carry out a review of the limitation periods for sexual abuse, but also the power against children. That's what I think it's very important that the department does, and I hope that one has come a long way to work, because it's urgent. Then I will refer to the setting, which includes, among other things, SV refers to the police resource situation. I just want to emphasize that we're quite a few in the point. Although the Labour Party does not provide funds for it in its alternative state budget, we have highlighted the need to resolve the prosecution crisis. The capacity challenges of police lawyers are not good, and this is very important for us to be able to get researched and set up these matters, and also to be closely associated with the case we are going to have to deal with later today, on the expanded storage of IP addresses, which will also be an important tool to fight down and investigate these issues. So we support the proposal and we should really like that we could go along with it, because I think we are some about the direction, as the case-speaker says. Then we should just be able to put ourselves behind it all, in a very important matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5348	The Progress Party is very pleased with this important political breakthrough, that we state that the limitation period for sexual crimes against children should be abolished. It is an important principle and something the Progress Party has fought for too long. There is a good reason why it has to be done, because it is simply a matter of the fact that a large number of people who are subjected to abuse need a long time to process it and to dry it up – visit the police and report the case. Many of them are far into adulthood when they choose to do so. What happens is that pedophile monsters – I'll call it that, because that's what it is – go free, just because the case is outdated. These persons are not prosecuted because the limitation period has expired. It is well documented, as previous speakers have also pointed out, that it takes an average of 17 years for the case to be reported. Then it goes without saying that this is a problem that is extremely real, and as the Storting now, through its request decision, the government instructs to clean up. I record that some people use it to work on investigations, as a reason not to support the proposal. Well, the government and the departments will always work with a lot of investigations, but not to join a request decision because you seem to be doing some job in the department, I think it's too simple. In a number of other things that we have dealt with in this room, both before and after Christmas, concrete things, the government parties have been able to say that we have a legislative work going on, we have investigations going on, but instead they have chosen to support the proposals here in the Chamber. Then it seems to me a little sad that it is not a unanimous committee that determines this. I believe – at least hope – that it really is the intention. I would still encourage the opportunity to make some changes until voting tomorrow and still support the proposal, because I think it would be very good if a unanimous increase were to confirm this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5359	There are constantly new examples of people who have been subjected to sexual crime as a child, but who have not managed to report the situation until they have been grown up, perhaps because they have not dared or energy. Then, unfortunately, things are often obsolete. The attackers are allowed to go free, and the victims must live with the injuries without getting justice. In the worst cases, offenders may continue to work or work where they are in contact with young people, and this may be a criminal offence against young people for years without being stopped or punished for the crime. As many people have pointed out, the average time it takes for a relationship to be reported to the police is 17 years. We have a number of bad examples of things, for example: related to young people who have been subjected in childhood to abuse at an institution, by a sportsleader or by other adults. The central party believes that those who are able to report sexual crime to the police should be properly treated, regardless of the time of the message. A lot of kids can't report law offences on their own. They may not even know that they are being subjected to something forbidden. At that time, society must have a regulatory framework that allows police to report crimes that can harm and affect children throughout their lives. The basic problem of abuse against young people does not disappear even if the Storting today eliminates the limitation period, or is in favour of it. But in any case, young people who experience abuse may not be too late to report the crimes they have been subjected to. Action against abuse and violence against young people must continue, but it also requires, inter alia: the police are provided with the resources required both in the special agencies and in the police districts. Unfortunately, the report of the National Audit Office on the police's work on cybercrime revealed that the number of tips is far greater than the police's power to deal with it. In the future, it is important that beautiful words and promises from politicians are followed up with money and funds for those who do an extremely important job in the fight against abuse. The centre party is pleased that a majority on the Stortinget today supports removing the limitation period for cases involving all sexual offences against young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5376	Very wise has already been said in this matter, so I will try not to repeat everything. I just have to congratulate the Progress Party on getting a majority in this case, I think that's fine. They address an important principle case, and SV agrees that we should remove the limitation period for sexual crimes against children. We must have a law in Norway that protects the victims; we must not have a law that protects the perpetrators. That's exactly what's going on today. In fact, there are those who can hide behind the limitation period, and of course it should not be. I fully agree with the Advancement Party. This does not mean that we believe that the limitation period in general is a misappropriation. We know that evidence can be weakened and memory becomes poor over time, so we also support that there will be an overall review of what kind of limitation periods you should have for these kinds of things. In fact, there may be good reasons to have a limitation period in some cases. So here we have to balance, and we do that in this case. We believe that there are so many good reasons why the limitation period should be removed in this case, and then we need a comprehensive review to see how it should be in the case of other types of offences. Then we disagree with the government parties; we mean we don't have to wait for that whole thing. We can give this signal here today, and we will. The majority signal that the limitation period can be removed in this area. So far we agree with the Progress Party, and then there will also be a small kick to the Advance Party. I recognize the commitment they have in this matter, and the grip they've taken here, but at the same time it's also that much of this is about police work. We know that there are too few assault cases being reported. We also know that the police lack resources to investigate matters, and many cases are being blamed. Many criminal cases never come to court, and many offenders are still not convicted, so we might have to take it from there too. Therefore, over the last few years, the Swedish authorities have raised a need to earmark funds for the police to improve their resources to deal with child abuse. The Progress Party has never supported this. The Progress Party will make this legislative change – fine, we agree with it. But then I expect them to come forward when we ask the police to get more resources to handle these matters. So far they haven't done it, so there's a double here. This is not entirely related. That's why I'm making this very, very clear recommendation to the Progress Party: the next time we deal with this, I expect them to support a demand that the police have more resources for this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5391	We all agree that sexual offences against children must be combated and severely punished. The police's efforts to detect and investigate such crime have improved markedly in recent years. In this context, it is important that the criminal limitation periods are long enough to ensure adequate protection for victims of such offences. At the same time, the rules on limitation have important aims, which means that different considerations have to be weighed when considering ending the limitation period. We believe that we must give priority to the most serious crimes. There have been significant developments in this area in recent years. Following a government proposal in 2014, the Stortinget adopted that the criminal liability for the rape of children under 14 years of age and sexual intercourse with children between 14 and 16 years of age should not be outdated. This was, among other things: justified by the gravity of the actions and by the fact that it may take a long time before the offended person is in a position to report the relationship because of his age and relationship with the perpetrator. Towards the end of last year, Stortinget also adopted a number of legislative changes that affect the limitation period in the event of sexual offences against children. Several offences were subject to so-called deferred limitation periods, i.e. the period is counted only from the day when the offender reaches the age of 18. For a criminal offence, the limitation period was also increased from two to five years. During the November deliberations last year, the government was asked to carry out a comprehensive review of the rules on the limitation of sexual and violent offences against minors and to make proposals for legislative changes that raised the general level of limitation periods for such offences. In my reply to the representative proposal that is being discussed today, I pointed out that it was natural that the question of whether further sexual offences against children should be exempted from limitation should be considered in the context of that review. Of course, when the majority of the Judicial Committee now asks the government to submit proposals for changes to the law that eliminate the limitation period for all types of sexual crimes against children, the government will follow it up. At the same time, the majority indicate that they support an overall approach, and reference is made to the review that the government has been asked to make. We're doing that review, and we're coming back to Stortinget as soon as we can with proposals for changes in the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5406	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5411	As the Council of State pointed out, we have made an appeal decision. The Council of State mentioned it at the end of its article. So my question is really: the council says that this review should be done, and one should come to the Storting as quickly as possible. When is it?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5416	I don't dare answer. Last week we had 20 cases for treatment in the hall, this week I think we have 15. We have a huge production despite a very demanding corona situation in the department, where we have a lot of extra tasks, but we're working as fast as we can. I think this matter is important, and we should give it priority. That's what I can promise.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5422	When we talk about sexual acts and abuses of the kind that have the limitation period today, we know that it can have, and too many have, very big consequences for the rest of their lives. The Council of State also mentioned in its statement that the foundation for removing what we did in 2014 was that there were very serious actions. But I think some of us are saying it's rough, what we're talking about here, too. It's gross crime. My question is: What arguments does the Council of State see in order to maintain the limitation period for sexual abuse of children?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5431	There are very many, and almost only good, reasons for removing these deadlines. But there are some reasons why not. It's actually about the victims of this type of crime. When there is no limitation period, the police will in principle give priority to all of these matters, and then it is important to know that for every day that goes, we should not forget, but it may be more difficult to prove. Overtakes may be dead, witnesses may be difficult to recover, evidence may be difficult. It is not easy, and that means that the more issues we remove the deadlines, the more issues need to be prioritised, and there needs to be a priority between the difficult issues. So there are some reasons to have limitation periods also in criminal matters, but for these kinds of acts there are a lot of good reasons for not having it, and now the Storting decides on an order that the government of course delivers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5436	That was actually the last time I wanted to ask, because now a number makes a decision here, and then we expect the government to follow it up, despite the fact that the Council of State itself can see the reasons why not do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5441	In general, we have limitation periods because there are also some good reasons. I don't need to frame them up, because there are a lot of good reasons for not having it in certain kinds of cases – we agree on that. Of course, we deliver on the order we receive.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5448	There are, of course, many issues that can be identified as crucial in order to eliminate a limitation period. I agree with the assessments that several have made, including the Council of State, that these are the most serious crimes we are talking about. I would strongly argue that when we talk about sexual crimes against children, there is some of the worst crimes people can face. That's why it's important for us as a society to be able to create the consequences it's going to have for these perpetrators. I heard what was said in the previous line exchange. The fact that work has been started on a comprehensive review of limitation periods – which is correct, as the Stortinget has asked, and which is good – means that you can deliver faster on this request decision than you would otherwise be able to do, and that it is not a matter of years before you can come to the Stortinget with a proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5455	It is now very tempting to tell you how the speed of responding to requests decisions has risen sharply in the last two years. I was here in the Chamber defending our handling of the request decisions. I can at least be clear that the undersigned has got the speed up, so that we do not spend more time than necessary, because that is obviously not the goal – the goal is to do a thorough job. I can't imagine that we now have a lot of tasks in the department, including extra tasks, but we have a lot of production. We see that of this session's treatments in Stortinget. We are going to come back with a real proposal that the Stortinge can adopt, and we are not going to spend more time than necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5462	The cord shift is over. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5469	I felt the need to answer a little discussion with the representative Petter Eide about ear tagging. I don't think it's hard to see that everyone here agrees that the kind of crimes we're talking about here are some of the most serious, some of the most challenging for people to be exposed to, who often persecute them throughout their lives, and on which we as society have to hit hard. There are complex reasons why you can't always do it. One of the reasons is limitation. The request decision I wish was unanimous in Stortinget, and which I may yet have the hope of becoming a unanimous decision in Stortinget tomorrow, is part of it. But the representative Eide is right, of course, the resource situation for the police will always be crucial. That is why the Progress Party has always worked to strengthen the police. We worked for that when we were in government, and we have worked for that after we left the government, in our alternative state budget, in revised – in any context it is natural to work for it, we have done it. When you work to get more money to the police while at the same time signaling that these are some of the most important things to take care of, I believe that you give the signals you can and should give politically. Unlike the representative, Eide, I would warn against us sitting on the Stortinget and earmarking funds for the police on the basis of the type of crime. First of all, I think it's extremely inefficient, it'll be very different in the different police districts, and I'm pretty sure it wouldn't have led to any more clarifications of matters at all, rather on the contrary, to fewer convictions. That is why I would strongly warn against this procedure. It's not our job to control the police in these areas. We have to give the police districts a certain degree of freedom, but it is important to point out the direction. It is important that the Stortinget is clear that this type of issue should be given priority. I also perceive that the Council of State is communicating in the letters of assignment to the police. These are important things to work for, but I would strongly warn against sitting and earmarking for the police based on what things you want to prioritise. After all, it's always the way we want to give priority to all things, whether it's financial crime, rape, violence and assault on children or killing. What things are we not going to solve? All things are important. Of course, some are more important than others, but earring is no solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5482	We've had a lot of justice ministers, and most of them have been from the Progress Party, so there's a connection in the Petter Eide addresses from the pulpit. When Per-Willy Amundsen was Minister of Justice, he said – about the budget he himself provided – that there was not exactly a party. And it wasn't, because there's no freedom for the police districts to get a budget that's so high that the room for action is going to be gone. Even if one can have an ear-marking discussion, it is a fact that we are actually in a capacity crisis, especially in the area of prosecution, and there is a significant responsibility for the budgets that were delivered in the years they themselves put in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5487	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. Thirty-four.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5504	The first speaker is Frida Melvær, who is the spokesman for the case, and here it is speaking time up to 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5509	I promise I won't use a block! Prop. 180 S for 2020-2021 concerns consent to participation in a decision of the EEA Committee on the inclusion in the EEA Agreement of a Regulation on the EU Civil Protection Mechanism. The proposal proposes to continue Norway’s long-standing cooperation with the EU in civil protection. The system has a duration from 2021 to 2027. The consent of the majority to participate is necessary in accordance with the second paragraph of Grundlova § 26. The proposition is based on the latest draft Regulation 2020/0097 (COD), which is based mainly on the 2019 Regulation, but has been amended and strengthened, etc. in the light of the wide-ranging impact of the ongoing covid-19 pandemic on a number of European countries. The aim of the scheme is to facilitate broad cooperation in the area of social security and preparedness in Europe. The changes that follow the latest draft regulation make changes in how the EU supports, coordinates and complements its efforts in the field of preparedness and crisis management to ensure the prevention, preparedness and crisis management of natural and man-made disasters for its own citizens in and outside Europe. The EU Civil Protection Mechanism represents an important safety net for Norway, especially for situations that rarely occur but have considerable consequences, and which are difficult to manage by one country alone. Through the scheme, Norway has undertaken to establish an air ambulance for the transport of patients with serious and contagious diseases as a capacity in the European Resource Pool RescEU. The air ambulance is based in Norway, and Norway can use its capacity when not in use in the EU. Norway's participation is also important for our cooperation with the other Nordic countries on civil protection. Only in the last year has our participation in the scheme given us valuable help, both in connection with the Gjerdrum camp, where a USR team from Gothenburg helped, and for an assisted return trip for about 600 Norwegian citizens abroad at the beginning of the pandemic outbreak. I would like to stress that making national capacities available in the civil protection reserve does not change the fundamental principle of national self-determination in a situation where Norway would need these capacities itself. The system does not replace national response capacities, but is intended to be a necessary reinforcement in the event of major disasters. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee on Cooperation. There is a joint committee behind the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5524	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. Thirty-five.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5541	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, there will be up to five lines with replies from members of the government, and those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5548	Changes in the Econom Act [[storage of IP addresses, etc.]] The storage time proposed by the government is 12 months — up to 12 months — while the Labour Party, the Centre Party and SV want to limit it to six months. It's an interesting discussion, and what I notice is that you essentially refer to privacy. Then I think it's important to understand what IP addresses really are. An IP address is an Internet Protocol address. It's kind of, to put it simply, the phone number you have when you operate on the Internet. In the old days, we had something called phone catalogues. Then you could look up – that’s actually true – and then you could find which phone number was attached to which person. The only thing that we do here is that they actually have to physically store who this address, that is, the IP address, is for a limited period of time, whether it's for six months, that the minority wants, or for twelve months, that the majority of people in this room want. What is at least not the case is that this, with all the misunderstandings, is a starting point for monitoring. It's not about storing traffic data. There is no way to store metadata and other type of information. The only thing the police want is that they get the information on the day they get a warning from, for example. The FBI said a Norwegian user was in a pedophilia, etc. Then you can go in and connect the IP address you get from the FBI to a person, which you can then catch. That's what this is all about. That is why this is an important matter, and fortunately it gets the majority today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5561	Does the representative make suggestions?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5566	That's right, President. I would like to raise the proposal from the Right and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5571	Then the representative Per-Willy Amundsen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5576	The Labour Party believes it is good and important that the government receives the call proposal from 2017. Getting longer storage time for subscription information for IP addresses knows we have been a big issue with the police for a long time. The changes proposed today – if one thinks that six months is right or that twelve months is right – will contribute to a more effective investigation of criminal offences where key evidence is increasingly available online. Although I appreciate some kind of trial of training from Per-Willy Amundsen just before me here, it's like information that used to go through phones is now on the Internet, so we're quite a few in the committee that one has to expand the storage time, which is now 21 days. We also believe – and it is important to say – that a statutory obligation to store the connection between IP addresses and subscriptions will constitute an intervention in the personal and communication protection of the individual, etc., as we refer to in the setting. For this reason, both the Labour Party, the Centre Party and SV say that it is important to find a reasonable balance between the purpose of storage on one side and the interest in privacy on the other, which we can also read in the proposition. For this reason, we believe, both the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV, that six months, like this. in Iceland, is more balanced. We also see from the hearing that we have arranged for the storage time to be set at six months, to be supported by Telia, Telenor, ICT-Norway, Tekna and others. So we see in the North that the storage time is a little bit different. In Sweden, it's ten months. Denmark has twelve, Finland has nine, and Iceland has six months. There are different requirements in all countries for what is required for extradition. Then I would say that the capacity problems in the police, which I constantly come into – and I will not end with it – are not solved by extended storage time. As we write in the setting, we know that both Kripos and the units for digital police work in the police districts have too weak staff to deal with the increase we see in crime on the Internet. Finally, the Labour Party will support SV's loose proposal No. 3 and 5, and I'll take up that suggestion that we're part of along with SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5591	The representative, Lene Vågslid, has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5596	In general, child abuse and cybercrime have become a major problem, and we have seen an explosive increase in recent years, unfortunately. At least for years, the police and Kripos have begged the politicians to adopt what we are adopting today. The government has chosen to listen to the police at all essential points; now it opens for storing IP addresses, and it opens for storage for 12 months. It's very good, and it will significantly improve the police's ability to work, among other things. against net infringements. So it's very happy to see that the Committee agrees on the framework and procedures associated with this and, in general, the reasons behind the proposal. But it is, as the rapporteur also pointed out, an eye-catching disagreement relating to the duration of storage. It may not be very surprising that SV has laid down on that line, but it surprises me sincerely that the Workers' Party and especially the Center Party are laying down on the same line. So it should be said that I do not doubt any party's desire and intention to combat this crime, but I believe that the parties that are now in favour of six months of storage are seriously underestimating what practical consequences and obstacles this will entail for the police. This type of crime is extremely difficult by its very nature. You often spend enormous amount of time getting a foundation. You have to deal with countries that have slow police and judicial procedures. Suddenly you can stand in a situation where you have to go back in time and find IP addresses, and if then six months have passed, you would, with the suggestion of the left-hand side, stand without the ability to name the IP address you need. I think that's serious. The Labour Party should look at its party colleagues in Sweden, Finland and Denmark, who have a storage period of between nine and twelve months. That seems to me to be a considerably more sensible level to put on. But that's what it is. I am not going to try to repeat the case rapporteur's fantastic review of what an IP address is for anything, but it is important to stress that it is not about communication control, the content of communication, where you are located, or who you are communicating with. Fortunately, it's not like that. The police are sitting right here. In our case they will sit with the criminal act in front, and must find only a name and a face on the person responsible. We must ensure that they have liberal access to this. Fortunately, the proposal has a majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5611	This case raises some very serious dilemmas, so serious that we had very long and demanding discussions in our group to land the case. On the one hand, everyone agrees that the police should have the tools they need to deal with serious crime, and when crime changes to become more digital, it is clear that they need to be allowed to handle it. At the same time, it's our commitment as politicians to protect privacy, and here we see a slippage. There is increasing surveillance also in public space, in social media and in a number of areas, and it is important that we, as politicians, are aware that somehow we need to get this slow-moving of privacy. We wanted to support this law; I come back to how we landed this, but that was the intention. To support it, however, we had to have five limitations. We thought the law was too wide, so we've put in five limitations, which I'm going to go through very quickly. Then it's also like that during voting that if these five constraints don't go through in the hall, we're going to vote against the law. Most likely we will, because we haven't been signaled that we're getting these proposals through. We want to support the Center Party with a six-month storage period. It's been argued for before, so I'm not going to spend time on it. We want to input what we call necessity criteria. We want the police to have clear indicators for when they ask for this type of data, otherwise it can be very arbitrary what they ask for, and very different from police districts to police districts. So necessity criteria are necessary. The law firm was also very concerned about that. We want there to be some kind of judicial review of this practice. It should not just be up to the individual police district or individual police officer. There must be some kind of control, at least in retrospect, that handles this. We want to increase the penalty framework from three years, which is proposed, to six years. This means that the police can ask for IP addresses for suspicion of crime with a penalty framework of more than six years. Then there'll be a little less scope of things you get in, and we'll also approach what we might call serious crime. A three-year penalty framework does not necessarily mean serious crime. Then we want this case to be evaluated. The aim of this amendment is for the police to have better tools to fight serious crime. It's a hypothesis we want to evaluate after five years, so we might be able to tighten this practice up again. So there's five constraints we've put into treatment. If all or some of them are rejected, we have to vote against the law. With that, I'm submitting SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5632	The representative Petter Eide has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5638	Norway is one of the world’s most digitised countries, and we are at the top of the world in terms of Internet use. The digital challenge means that we need to have good data protection and communication protection measures. At the same time, however, developments have provided new opportunities for criminals, both to commit crime and to refrain from criminal prosecution. As communications over the Internet take place using IP addresses, it will be of great importance for police and prosecution authorities to find out to the subscriber who has used such an IP address. An obligation to store IP addresses will include, inter alia: be able to contribute to the resolution of cybercrime, in particular child abuse. Then we need time, and that's why we're supporting twelve months. According to the police directorate's report on reported crime in 2018, the number of sexual offences is increasing, in particular child abuse. From 2014 to 2018, the increase is over 75 pst. It is primarily due to the fact that an up-to-date police force has revealed a network of people who are chatting and sharing productions of children. One has also been subjected to extortion, where images and films are used to push the person who is depicted, for money, to send more material or to perform sexual acts. Not long ago, the Stortinget sent out a powerful signal in the country that sharing of sexualised and offensive images and films without consent is prohibited. Now we're sending out another signal to those who do different kinds of online crime. Police are now given an important tool to stop abuse, exploitation, trafficking in human beings and all forms of violence and torture against children. If police or prosecution authorities are provided with information on criminal offences, they may now use IP storage to identify who is behind the activity, while, of course, privacy protection is ensured. The Christian People's Party supports and welcomes this proposal and will continue to work actively to protect children from harmful content also online, as well as to introduce regulations at authority level to protect children and young people. We are therefore satisfied with the broad consensus it is about the substance of the matter, although there is disagreement about time. We hope that this can help more young people get saved out of a terrible situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5649	I am pleased that the Storting today adopts an obligation to store IP addresses for 12 months. This amendment is particularly important to prevent child abuse on the Internet. Combating serious crime is a central focus of government. More and more crime is happening in the digital space and digital tracks. Getting to know who has been assigned an IP address will strengthen the police's ability to combat net crime. We believe that a 12-month retention period is necessary in order for IP storage to be a sufficiently effective tool in the fight against serious crime, and specifically in order to identify who is behind sexual abuse against children online. Storage of IP addresses also raises important questions about the individual's personal and communication protection. It is important for the government to take good care of these considerations. We have stressed that the proposal for IP storage does not go beyond what is necessary to ensure privacy. Firstly, we have proposed that the IP information that the echo operators are required to store should only be provided to the police in cases relating to the investigation of serious crime. In order to ensure control, the police shall also draw up an annual list of extradition requests to be sent to Nkom. I would also like to stress that the storage of IP addresses does not involve the storage of data on the content of the communication, the geographical position or who it is communicating with. However, IP information can provide information about a person's usage pattern, e.g. connection and habits related to network activity. The storage and delivery of IP data may be intrusive, but I and the government believe that the data protection disadvantages of this are compensated by the benefits that storage provides for the fight against crime. Then I must be allowed to make a final comment: as district minister, I am constantly meeting the centre party in district debates. The centre party has actually turned the fight against crime into one of the most important district policy measures by restoring the country's county office, once the crime scene has changed so radically. The worst crime our children can experience is being attacked online. It's a bicycle theft a loner's office can help with. The fact that the centre party is so absent in this debate and does not even seem to have to take the floor on this matter seems to me to be alarming. The fact that the Central Party uses every opportunity in debates about restoring a loner's office, which at least does not have the ability or the capacity to participate in and prevent child abuse, the greatest threat and the crime risk of our children, seems to me to me to be very special. The centre batch enters the line of SV and enters for six months of storage and shall not allow the police to effectively prevent abuse of children online.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5666	I believe it is very, very important that Storting today adopts an obligation to store IP addresses. Technological developments have led to changing forms of communication and have given criminals new opportunities both to commit crime and to refrain from criminal prosecution. This has created a number of challenges for the work of the police and prosecution authorities. The police, through their investigations, will be able to gain knowledge of IP addresses that can be linked to criminal offences. It may be through surveys of data seizures, the provision of user information from websites and social media. And they get lots of tips. In many cases, information about which subscriber has used an IP address is absolutely essential to get to the point. With a duty to store this information for 12 months, the police will have an important and effective tool to identify who is responsible for the serious crime and, in particular, child abuse. Finding the right balance between combating crime and the need for privacy is challenging. As important as becoming a practical, effective and targeted tool for the police, it is that no more information is stored than is necessary. This balance has been emphasised in the design of the legislative proposal. When the government proposes that the retention period for IP data should be 12 months, it is because we see that it will be necessary for the police and prosecution authorities to make use of the data in a sufficiently effective way. At the same time, the storage time will not be longer than is necessary to ensure the protection of communications. The bill is an important tool in the police's fight against serious crime, and the greatest effort made in the fight against abuse since the police reform. We believe this legislative change will be an important and proper step towards a safer society for children, young people and everyone else who travels online.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5687	The Labour Party does not hide from debates and admits that this matter is not entirely simple. There are also good arguments for twelve months. But when we now expand the length of the elongation period from 21 days, we can at least admit that we have accepted it for all eight years under Erna Solberg's government. If we say that we now go from the one very serious scenario to what solves everything, I think we're exaggerating the debate. In Sweden, for example: started one at six months, and if I don't think wrong, they have twelve months now. There may be good reasons to go straight in twelve months, but as we've discussed the matter, and also read the listening recordings we've got, we think it's more balanced to start with six months of storage time. However, there is no doubt that increasing the access to storage of IP addresses has called for multiple requests. It has been important to us, and we are quite a few in that it is important in both the fight against crime and also in view of the extent of crime that is despondent online. So that doesn't solve that capacity problem either. We know that there are also challenges to such matters being extremely extensive. We talk about material with so many images and videos that we don't solve all the problems of expanding the storage time. But let there be no doubt: it is very important to extend the storage time, and then balance us in the matter today and go for six months, but I record that there are twelve months that are going to be settled.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5696	Hofstad Helleland tried to turn this debate, where the Central Party is behind it all, most of what is agreed, into a debate on the reopening of the Länsmann Office. I want to describe it as a playful show. First of all, it wasn't relevant to what's at the heart of the topic here. Secondly, it is quite clear that the Council of State, which is a district minister in the country, has not come to realize that a near-police actually requires police officers present in the whole country, and with the remoteness of the county offices that have ours, there is a remote police force from the districts – for which the Council of State is then responsible. There are constant attempts from the government party to pretend that we want to open the cannon office. We do not say that we should reopen everyone, but we want to open where there is a clear need for it, after it has been removed so many, and to take measures to get people back to their neighbourhood police, as far as possible after the government has been here for eight years. When it comes to fighting crime against kids, it's obvious that there's a need for a professional environment, so is the Center Party. We are not the least to use modern technology. Also, this case is a matter for the highest degree, even if we go for a six-month storage period instead of a twelve-month proposal from the government. The leader of the committee, Lene Waogslid, said quite rightly that it is striking that an increase from 21 days up to several months is an increase that is in any case large. I see that Hofstad Helleland is shaking his head, so she can explain what she thinks about it. What is at the heart of this is that the Central Party wants a police force for the whole country. A nearby police force will also make it possible for the police to detect things that unfortunately can now go under the radar. With the constant allegations that most of crime is going online, and that abuse is going online, one must not forget that many abuses are unfortunately also going around physically throughout our country. There's also crime we have to put a stop to, and then there's a police officer who knows his community.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5707	To the end, I can just say that there's a perfectly obvious connection between physical abuse on the one hand and assault on the other hand that happens on the web. It's irrevocable; it doesn't matter to refute. There's a perfectly obvious context there. The fact that police have better means of combating online abuse also means that they have better means of combating physical abuse. There's a context here. I see it as the state council Hofstad Helleland is in a very important point: the centre party is very busy with the physical things and very busy counting the county councils – very busy with it – but not so much when it comes to the digital domain. That's where crime evolves most quickly and increases most. It is becoming increasingly widespread in society. Now the 5G network is phased in. If we now think that we are dependent on network services – the Internet – it is nothing compared to what will happen in the future. The fact that the police should not have effective means of combating online crime – and I believe that the difference of six and twelve months can be decisive – is unmistakable to me. It's the same as taking from the police important tools in the physical domain, for example. To say that you are not allowed to search anyone at all. It's going to be a little bit like this. We need to equip the police to handle the digital domain, and that's what we do, among other things. with this, which is an important proposal and an important proposition. Sometimes you get the pleasure of agreeing to start and finish something, and in this case I've got to be on it. The request decision that has been followed up was adopted when I was Minister of Justice. Now I am delighted to be the case rapporteur for the same matter, and what I see is how important it is that we have these tools, that the police have these possibilities. Then it is not for believers to listen to the Workers' Party either. They were well in favour of the Data Storage Directive, and they voted in favour of a digital border defence – which is about data storage, not address storage. When you talk about intervention in the individual's freedom and personal freedom, it's far more serious than storing some addresses on the Internet for a limited period of time. Ultimately, the storage time will be crucial for how many issues are solved, and – in the ultimate sense – will be crucial for saving children from abuse.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5720	I very much agree with the Center Party that abuse of children occurs physically, and it happens online. The sad fact is that the police structure of the Senterpartie extended back, failed to detect abuses against children either online or physically. It wasn't the answer to the challenges the police have, we've seen that. We see from the statistics that after the police reform, after new districts, new common units and new methods, the quality has increased, and the potential to detect this type of abuse has increased sharply. It's not because this is a new type of crime, it's just that the police have become a lot better at working and prioritizing these issues, and that's very, very good. It was said by the committee chairman that there are 21 days of storage today. You don't. The challenge is, in fact, that you do not have a storage obligation. We're now imposing that you store, and a majority wants to store for 12 months. It's because those who are going to use these tools say it's necessary. This does not mean lack of money; it is that the issues are large and complicated, and often you have to cooperate with other countries. Legal requests take time. I have been talking to Kripos and heard about the cooperation they have with, among other things. The Philippines, and here you have the opportunity to detect ongoing abuses against young children. Then, in many ways, there is a somewhat special situation when in the previous case, there was no problem in eradicating all the obsolescence for this type of case, so you don't have 12 months to detect ongoing abuse when that's what the police are asking for. Then I believe that with the envelope proposed by the Centre Party, a violent frame-up, it is the privacy that governs – it's not the victims, it's not the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5731	I agree with the representative Vågslid that this is not a simple matter. When the government fell in 12 months, it was because we listened to the police. The police say they need 12 months for this to be an effective tool, because many of these cases often have international ramifications, and as the Minister of Justice also said, one might have to wait for one year for answers to retrieve data from foreign websites when sending a legal request. Up to one year — what does that help with six months? It's not an effective tool for the police. Who's the loser today? Yes, those are the vulnerable children. That's why I had to make that comment to the Center Party, which is so high and dark in all justice debates. Their only answer is to restore the cannon offices – to believe that there is cycling theft in the countryside that is our biggest threat picture today. That's why the Center Party is failing the most vulnerable, the most vulnerable children. I think it's a terrible shame that you have such a nostalgic view of today's crime challenges. The crime challenges we really have are happening online, and that is why, as Minister for Digitalisation, I am also very pleased with the decision that a majority on the Stortinget today is fortunately behind. More crime is taking place digitally. Then we have to give the police the tools they need. That's why it's related that we have politicians in Norway who understand the crime our citizens are being subjected to, and that it's not very helpful to restore a janitor's office that should have been open for a few hours a week. Unfortunately, there is very little understanding of what our children and young people are exposed to today's online crime. As a mother, I wish I had the same view of the crime challenges for our children that the Center Party has, but as parents, I think our greatest fear is that our children will be subjected to online abuse. That is why I am so happy that the Stortinge today provides the police with the means to cooperate internationally as well, and to help take the backers and those who expose their children to online abuse.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5740	I'm definitely not going to minimize being attacked on the web, but as a mother, I have to say that my greatest fear is not that my child will be attacked on the web, but for a physical assault. What emerges from this debate is the contempt that Right has for all those around the country who want a closer police. We're not going to have 200 new loner offices. We're going to have a reasonable approach to this and to the right of the municipalities and the police around. I want to have a little bit of a history time, because we in the Center Party get to throw at us all the time that we're not too structural changes and centralization, so we're opposed to being modern and towards modern technology and modern tools. Of course, it's just nonsense. I myself have been sitting on the Justice Committee since 2009, and I think well of the job that the Red-Green Government did in working on a police reform that was to be launched in the first period when I sat there, but could not be done because of what happened on July 22. The bombing of the Government Quartet and the Outlying Commitment led to the Ministry of Justice being framed in such a way that it was not possible to present this reform in practice, because they were also the subject of deaths, etc. In addition, after July 22nd, there was a need to go through what was happening, so there was a need for more time. It was not possible for us to present the reform we were working on during that period. We were working on a reform because we saw that there was probably a reform in the police. The centre party does not have its seat here and our backwards and against reform over these years. We were in favour of a reform, but we didn't have to go in for a reform that shut down 120 LEN's office, and that also removed many of the additions from the LEN's offices that were left, which the government elegantly managed to get. Hofstad Helleland points out that the opening hours are a couple of days a week at the canning offices we're going to open, but the government has managed to get worse opening hours at the canning offices that are left after the reform, even if they've closed over 120 canning offices, which would make it possible to have resources for both better opening hours, to add more to the offices that are left, and not least more police patrols. The last thing they haven't done, either. This is important to bring with it. Modern technology: Yes, we are absolutely for that. It would have been part of the reform we went through, with more police work in place, which was started before the government reform. It is important to realise that development is also independent of reform. Years go by, things go forward, so it's not necessary to run and run with a lot of closures in order to develop.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5757	Let me start by warning you about the slightly designed production that there's kind of a contrast between working in the digital space and working in the physical space. The two things our police must be able to handle. What I think the Center Party ignores is that there's often a connection between what's happening in the digital space and what's happening in the physical space. That's where you're going to make the police even better, not just to fight child abuse online, which is serious enough, but also to fight physical abuse, precisely because of that context. If the representative Klinge or others in the Justice Committee have been visiting Kripos, Operation Dark Room or Operation Jupiter, that's exactly what they've been asking for. The most important case in order to combat child abuse, yes, there is storage of IP addresses. At the same time, I can show lists of requests, information received by the police through Interpol and others, where Norwegian users have been involved in some form of an attack forum, mostly on the dark network, which links users with IP addresses in Norway to the most cruel acts of abuse and discussions, image sharing, etc., which the police are given insight into. It is absolutely right that there is no storage time today; it is up to the Internet service provider. However, because the IP addresses are not stored, you will never get a pinpoint or a grip on those who have been behind the abuses. That is the reality. That's why this commitment is so obvious from all those who work on these issues, because this will enable them to take these people, and then not only for online abuse, but also for physical abuse. That's what's the fact, and that's why this case is so important. Making this a data protection issue is a strong exaggeration, because it's not about storing traffic data. It's not about saving metadata. This is about storing an IP address for a limited period of time. That is why I think the argument from the Workers' Party is completely incomprehensible, because in other areas they have gone much further. There they want to store traffic data, where they are to store metadata. So here you're going to be able to store IP addresses for 12 months. The ultimate consequence of this is less obvious abuse of children.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5771	I had hoped that we would be a little bit wiser through the debate on what is really the reason for this difference in storage time. Yes, storage is a privacy breach, we all agree on that. But at the same time, we have to agree that when you first store, when you store for a few months, there's not a very big difference in the extent and seriousness of the procedure, whether it's for six months or twelve months. It's not, but for the police, it's night and day. For the police, it's night and day. So that's the difference between taking a tens or maybe hundreds of perpetrators or not. It surprises me that the opposition has sat and weighed this and made the decision that they should enter the proposition with a red pen, and then they should put a line over 12 months and write six months – without a good reason in addition to a sentence or two in the comments and a thin justification from the pulpit. LEN Vågslid has good reason when she refers to hearing bodies that say they want six months, but it is therefore commercial operators who are required to pay for that storage. Then we're in the situation that that's what appears to be the heaviest reason for going from twelve to six months. I don't think that's good enough or heavy enough. It's not a good enough reason when you're going out to meet Kripos and look them in the eye and say, "You asked for twelve; we gave you six." It won't last. There is still some time left in the debate and the opportunity to clarify whether there are other and better reasons than just a loose reference to privacy. I think that the police who are at the forefront trying to solve the almost impossible issues deserve a better reason and better support in perhaps the most important question of the main tool they have and want and now fortunately get.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5782	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Thirty-six.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5799	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5808	I was the case rapporteur at Stortinget in June 2013 when we passed laws which prohibited terrorist organisations and participation in and recruitment to them. The lawyer sent a letter to the government in August 2018 asking for parallel laws in the case of criminal organisations. I appreciate being the case rapporteur also for this case, which has parallels to the case from 2013. It's up to date in a lot of ways. I could mention that the Oslo police for two to three years spoke of them wanting to stop the establishment of a «chapter», or a department, of Satudarah in the eastern region. They put in great resources to try to prevent them, but they didn't get there, and a Satudarah "chapter" was established north of Oslo and on Rome last spring. It is likely to be related to a number of incidents involving shooting, stabbing, etc. between different environments. What I hope is that the police will now be able to have better tools to prevent that kind of establishment, which can have serious consequences. What I am pleased about is that a broad majority of the committee is in favour of this proposal by the government. It was also a broad majority on the Stortinget who in December last year asked for it to be promoted. I want to mention three issues that we address in the setting, which are also addressed by a broad majority. One applies, as the example I mentioned, to Satudarah or another international, well-known criminal organization that has a broad work and has run extensive crime internationally and that is trying to establish itself in Norway. The question, as we also address in the notes, is whether this proposition will provide a legal basis for stopping them when they want to establish themselves in Norway, or whether they have to wait until they have committed repeated acts of violence and threats to human health, as it says in the proposition. The proposal also shows that international relations can be brought in, but we want to get a better basis for this in the legislative work, and we are therefore promoting a proposal that reads: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to the Storting with stricter rules if the new legislation does not sufficiently prevent the establishment of international criminal gangs and mobs.’ I'm not going to go into everything, but we're also promoting a proposal to be able to use legal, hidden methods, even if the penalties on these issues are three years old, and ask the government to investigate them. These environments operate with encrypted solutions, and it is difficult for the police to detect them if they do not have the opportunity to ask for such methods.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5824	The case is about criminalising participation in and recruitment to criminal associations. This is something the bulk of the population has asked for. In December 2020, the Stortinget dealt with a case of recriminalism and decided to ask the government to draw up legislative proposals prohibiting participation in criminal gangs and their recruitment. We are pleased that the proposals have come forward, and we are pleased that there is agreement on proposals for amendments on the criminalisation of participation in and recruitment to criminal associations. We are also pleased that there is agreement to ask the government to come back with stricter rules if the new legislation does not sufficiently prevent the establishment of international criminal gangs and that the Stortinget asks the government to investigate specifically whether the police should be given access to more criminal-prosecutive coercive measures. Organized crime is a problem that is noticed in everyday life to people who spread insecurity and who have to stop with the means we have. There are other aspects of organized crime that the government has not followed up well enough. In the same case in December last year, the Stortinget also decided to ask the government to submit proposals for the withdrawal of financial benefits, in order to introduce criminal liability for those who leave the values, cars, apartments, etc., to stand in their name – simply the withdrawal of what they serve on crime. Among other things, the Advance Party has been out in big words about this before. Nevertheless, little has happened. It should be a discouraging truth for the government. Throughout the ageing period, the Workers' Party has called for action on the use of extended access to detention in criminal proceedings and on the establishment of rules on detention, among other things. has been in Ireland since 1996. There must be criminal liability for those who passively hide criminal values. The lack of action in this matter weakens the fight against the criminals. Effective withdrawal of values is essential to reduce the prospects for economic gain for criminals and to reduce the motivation for crime. It has been promised and said a lot in these cases from various Ministers of Justice. Among other things, Jøran Kalldmyr was offensive and would put in place new rules and better systems. He said in 2019 in Stortinget that there would be a matter of this in 2020. Now we're in 2021 – without action.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5839	Criminalisation of participation in criminal associations — it is a request decision made by the Stortinget in December, and it is quite right that the previous speaker pointed out: December 2020. If this is to be taken into account, the department has delivered relatively quickly. I have a suspicion that there may also have been some work on this matter in advance – I refer here to other references that the representative Henriksen had to former ministers of justice. What is important in any case is that we have this matter brought to our attention, that we adopt it, and that hopefully it will be implemented quickly by the government. It's an important thing. Here you very much agree with the committee. On the other hand, where the Committee does not agree, the reference to Ireland is not least to the description given by the representative Henriksen in respect of civil proceedings. Because if the representative remembers the treatment we had in the Storting last December, that is, six months ago, it was also a majority in favour and a request decision on what we also expect the Ministry of Justice at the Council of State and the Government to follow up. We might understand that it's not in place today. I think it is well done that today the proposed text is adopted. But I fully agree with Mr Henriksen that there are expectations that the other request decisions made by the Stortinget last December will also be followed up, because there are important measures to combat organised crime, to combat recriminalism, and to strengthen police methods. It's also a problem because we see that withdrawal is too small today, and the history is not good. It's complicated processes, it's too difficult, and we have to resort to civil custody. But it does not belong as criticism of this matter. Here the government has delivered, that's good, and it's a broad majority that's going to make sure that this is also adopted tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5850	SV is pleased that this proposal has come, and we are going to support it. This is quite different from the debate we have had in Stortinget in the past, where proposals have been made by Jan Bøhler – with the heaving people in the Progress Party – to ban gangs who have had a strong and stigmatizing battle against youth in Oslo East. We were at that time against it, also because the proposers couldn't define what a bunch is – what is a «thing» that we're going to ban, what is the definition of it? They could not clarify the extent of the problem, and on direct questions from me, it also appeared that the sources were mostly the media. Nevertheless, there was a majority for that in Stortinget, even without our support. When the government now comes back in response to this, it's broader. It doesn't have the Oslo East battle side that it originally had from proposers, it's much more precise, and it's about combating organized crime. I think that's very good, and there are also some very clear terms. It is about repeated crime, it is about crime that can cause fear, it is also about preventing serious crime in the future. That is why we are now supporting this. We think this looks very nice. So I'll, a little like some comments from the right here, warn against any dangers around this. We must make sure that in this we do not restrict the freedom of association. The term ‘association’ – what is it? It's not defined in the bill, as far as I've seen. But I'm assuming that later, when you start designing this, you're going to get clearer definitions of what an association is. It's not that easy to criminalize an association. Then we have to make sure that we do not make the mistake of banning a crime that has not been committed, because we cannot, therefore, criminalize the suspicion that something is going to happen. It is relatively clear unconstitutional. Nor can we automatically ban in Norway an organisation that has been banned in other countries. We have to do our own legal assessments of it in Norway, but I think that will be clarified in a proper way through this. In sum, we are happy that this has come up. We believe that this debate has taken the right direction. There has become a clearer, real turn from a more populist proposal to ban gangs, mostly in Oslo, to become a proper bill to limit organized crime. We're going to support that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5863	Criminal gangs represent a significant challenge. Through violence, threats and other crime, these contribute to the creation of population insecurity. We have no place for criminal gangs in our society. In recent years, we have seen a negative trend in recrimination. Very young people are recruited to the rest of the world. The recruiters are in danger of getting into a criminal racetrack, with all the negative consequences that this could entail. The challenges must be met with a number of instruments and measures — both prevention and punishment. I am very pleased that an overall judicial committee has supported the government's proposal for new provisions in the Criminal Procedures Act and the Criminal Code, aimed at participation in and recruitment to criminal associations. The new rules involve two steps of criminalisation. First, a criminal association must be banned by law. Then there is the right to punish those who participate in or recruit for membership of such associations. Compared to a traditional criminal offence, this model provides a more precise indication of the criminal offence area. It increases predictability for individuals and spaces in order to make somewhat less stringent demands on the forms of participation affected by the criminal offence. The new rules may make it less attractive for international criminal organisations to establish subgroups in Norway. Another possible consequence is that the criminal associations choose to be less visible in the public. Although this does not in itself solve the challenges of recriminalism, it can have a positive impact on society’s sense of security and make it more difficult for groups to recruit new members. The criminalisation of participation may also enable the victims to be affected. Today, it is a challenge that the leadership of criminals' gangs deliberately distance themselves from the concrete criminal acts. The proposal addresses established associations that commit serious crime and spread fear in the community. We propose that participation in and recruitment to such associations be punished by imprisonment up to three years. In addition to other measures, the new rules could be a valuable tool in combating recriminalism.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5880	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5885	I want to boast to the Council of State for a good article. We're healing some. There is no room for criminal gangs in society, and we have to do what we can to prevent them from developing and continuing with the crime that threatens many communities. Several appeal decisions have been followed by Minister of Justice Mæland – at a higher rate than perhaps any other Minister of Justice before her, I have to say. We can see that it's approaching choices. But there are some decisions we've made that are not yet followed up, and Martin Henriksen was in on it in his post. I'm also very busy doing something about the withdrawal problem, because we know it's important to make it less attractive, just to be a criminal. Today we have one of the big values, and the entries we have seen over the years are low. I wonder if the Council of State can say something about the status of the work to put in place rules for, among other things. civil-law withdrawal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5892	Both the question we are dealing with here today, in the form of a law, and withdrawal, has been dealt with by the Criminal Law Council. It was a advice we resumed work for in 2019. It's composed of very competent people. They work fast, and they give us good feedback in a way that allows us to quickly implement decisions like this. Long before Storting's request – last year – I was advised to criminalize gangs, and we deliver on it. But we had to make the bill, and it had to be consulted, and all of this. Now I base myself on memory, but we got an early in the harvest a review of the rules related to withdrawal, to see if there were improvements and changes to do there. We are working on that, but we did not pass the deadline to discuss a bill now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5899	Thanks for the answer. We've been busy for some years, all since 2017, when it was a deal. The Council of State also refers to the criminal law selection that Minister of Justice Kalldmyr is probably putting down. There have been many offensive statements from the government about it. I think maybe we're some; I'm just worried that this is going late, because there are huge values in circulation, and it makes it too attractive, just to say, to do criminal acts. So we know that there is an increased access to prison law inclusion today, and there are several voices, among others. in the media, which has expressed a lack of access. What is the Council of State's comment on that? Does the Council of State see any changes and positive developments in this respect in order to take advantage of the increased possibilities of inclusion in the criminal law?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5907	Just because we thought the activity related to withdrawal was too low, we asked the Criminal Law Council to review it and make some recommendations, and we are now looking at those recommendations. I just have to say that it's working on blasts, and we have a big production of stuff. There's no lack of priority, it's just that we have departments in the department that have to do their job, and we want to deliver quality to the Stortinget. So we're going back to the withdrawal question. I fully agree that it is important and that the activity associated with this is too low.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5912	That state council said in its statement that it would be possible to use this to take backers, was also part of what was stated in the Riksadvokat's letter of 31 August 2018, and I would like to attach a question to it. Where the prohibition is presented in the proposal, it says that the participants must have committed: «repetitious crimes against the life, health or freedom of someone, and these offences are suitable for creating fear in the population or the community». With regard to the part that is the basic part of criminal gangs, i.e. financial gain, money and values: Will it be evidence theme, part of the certification requirements and be the basis for banning gangs? The backers we're talking about, and as the Council of State is talking about, don't use violence itself, so it can be difficult to hit them unless the issue of financial gain and money is a basis of evidence to ban a gang.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5922	I will not assume the role of the prosecution authority. They're the best people to put forward how they do their evidence assessments of this. But it is not that a crime must have been committed in Norway. That's how you can look to judges in other countries, you can get proof, and you can use them in this two-step process that I've defined. But to call a criminal, you have to have a conviction that someone is a criminal, and that's what we've been trying to describe.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5927	Now I think the council answered a different question than what I was really going to ask. I asked that in the evidence, in the evidence requirements when you're going to know a bunch of illegal in Norway, is that also financial crime, money and profit can be a basis? What is mentioned in the proposition is: «repetitious crimes against the life, health or freedom of someone, and these offences are suitable for creating fear in the population or the community». These perpetrators, as the Council of State rightly says that this law should be applied, do not commit these acts of violence. They are often committed by runners on the street, while they are far from there, and what they are interested in is money. I believe that we must also be able to use financial crime as a basis for making proposals to ban criminal gangs. I'm really asking for an illumination of it in the proposition, and I think it's important that it is addressed here in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5937	Yes, I definitely believe that that kind of illegal activity also belongs in these assessments. Very often it will also be associated with insecurity — torpedoing and extortion activities. These are activities that very often create great insecurity, and that is illegal. So I think the answer to that is yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5942	As far as the Council of State was concerned, and as we are referring to a proposal in the Grand Duchy, there may be a need for stricter rules with regard to the establishment of international criminal gangs. What the proposition says about it, which I have tried to read carefully, is that if people have committed organised crime internationally as well, it could be prohibited for them to establish a ‘chapter’ in Norway. Often it will be said that when Satudarah, the international criminal MC organisation I talked about, establishes itself in Norway, it is not the Netherlands who is here in Norway and starts it, but they have people who start it for them here. The same applies to Loyal to Familia, which is a group that is banned in Denmark and which has been mentioned as being established in Norway. Will a ban in Denmark or another country be the basis for bringing a case before the Norwegian Court of Justice, based on what practice these gangs have internationally?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5947	Without commenting on individual groupings or any of the gangs and making claims related to them – I will not – I can say that what is the situation is that an association is illegal in another country, it can help to make it illegal in Norway too, but then we have to make that judgment in a Norwegian court. Then you have to collect the information and assessments you want to do before you prohibit that type of activity. We have this difficult balance against the freedom of organisation that we have to constantly take care of, but it will be a Norwegian court that makes an assessment of whether the activity of the association can be considered criminal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5952	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5959	I think it was very useful and important clarifications the Council of State now had – that in a Norwegian court you can raise questions about banning a criminal gang if there are concrete attempts to establish a subdivision in Norway, based on what you know about the organisation's work internationally. I fully agree that this is to be dealt with in the Norwegian court. But the legal basis for taking it up – the Council of State that I asked for now – is important, and that is what we are looking for in the proposal for decisions that four of the parties in the Justice Committee promote. I would also like to stress that if the police are to be able to go after the backers, which is the main purpose of the law, and which was the main purpose when National Attorney Tor-Aksel Busch sent the enquiry to the government on 31 August 2018, the police need to use hidden methods. They operate in secret, they operate more and more with encrypted solutions, in which they promote the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Advance Party and the Right together proposals to ask the government to investigate hidden methods for investigating and recruiting banned criminal gangs, even if the penalty framework is three years. I think that's important, because we're at risk of getting a sleeping law if we don't give the police the opportunity to investigate these environments. I also want to say that it was very useful, what the Council of State said about financial crime, profit, for example. systematic activities into legal Norwegian business to engage in illegal activities in the context of activities where they are more difficult to detect – that such activities could also provide the basis for the prohibition of the law of criminal organisations operating in the hidden place, which do not engage in so much violence but in financial crime. The main purpose of these organizations is to make money, it's not to do violence, because it attracts the attention of the police. We have to be aware that the basics of these businesses are money, that's the profit motive. I think it's important for the government to draw up detailed regulations about the law, that what the Council of State said here now comes, because I don't think anything about it in the proposition. It is an important part of the legal work – that the courts and the police are involved in the work on the law. I thank you for the debate – it was clarifying.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-07.ana.ud218e5970	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Thirty-seven. Today's map has been processed successfully. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
