ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e52	Before the matters on today’s map are dealt with, the President will state that there will be voting in cases 1-3 at the outset, and the President will therefore ask the representatives to remain in office for a few more minutes. Furthermore, the President will inform you that today's meeting will continue beyond noon if necessary. 16th@item: inlistbox Case No. 1-3 will be treated as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e96	The cases are the second reading of laws and relate to legislative decisions 198 to 200. Does anyone ask for the word? - That's not what it looks like. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution. Case No. 4–6 will be treated as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e145	At the request of the Finance Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: the Labour Party 25 minutes, the Right 25 minutes, the Progress Party 15 minutes, the Central Party 15 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, the Left 10 minutes, the Christian People's Party 10 minutes, the Green Party 10 minutes, the Green Party 10 minutes, the Red 10 minutes and the Government 10 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be given a reply to replies from members of the Government and up to four replies from the main speakers and parliamentary leaders of the parties. Those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e154	Let me begin by thanking the Committee for good cooperation in the consideration of the revised national budget for 2021, and for the last and a half years, where Norway has been in the most serious economic downturn in the post-war period. In particular, let me thank the other government parties and the Progress Party for agreeing on the main lines of the revised national budget after good and constructive discussions. We were hit by the pandemic and the necessary measures to prevent infection in Norway. This had a major impact on the Norwegian economy and jobs, and it hit widely across industries and geography. It was therefore essential that the government should be on the road quickly, and that, through good cooperation, a number of important arrangements were put in place in the Grand Duchy, so that we could avoid unnecessary bankruptcy, save people's jobs and secure people's and families' income. Now that we can see that Norway is among the countries in the world that have been successful compared to some others, both health and economic, it is a good run. In the budget, we continue to take our daily lives back. We are pointing out a clear direction for the country out of the crisis. First of all, people at work, we're going to get the day off and include more people in the workplace. We must avoid those who become unemployed during the coronary crisis being left standing outside. We will contribute to new growth, transformation and innovation and facilitate the creation of more jobs across the country. We are to take extra care of those who have been most difficult through the crisis, we are to make an extra effort for the lonely elderly, care for children exposed to violence and abuse, support children and young people with mental health challenges, promote integration and tight knowledge gaps in education. We're going to ensure that more people complete high school and that more people get the skills that tomorrow's work and business needs. They also apply to those who have been or are unemployed as a result of the pandemic. Finally, we must also facilitate the creation of green jobs and a more sustainable future on the way out of the crisis. Since the right came into government, taxes and taxes have been significantly reduced. We've cut taxes so that ordinary families get more to walk with, and companies can grow and invest. At the same time, we've changed the charging system, so it'll be more profitable to cut emissions. I believe that it is a goal in itself that families and individuals should be left with more of their own income. In 2021, a normal family would pay about NOK 14 000 less in taxes than they would if the rules for 2013 were passed on. While we have cut taxes and taxes, there has been more well-being, more warm hands in the health and care sector, more policemen in the streets. We've built more roads, taken again back on infrastructure construction. We create more and treasure less. We've got a tax system that makes creating jobs more profitable. The tax on working capital captures Norwegian companies for capital, so that they have less left to invest in jobs. It therefore makes it less profitable to save and invest for Norwegian owners and helps to give foreign owners a competitive advantage. We have strengthened Norwegian ownership by reducing the rate and introducing a discount on working capital, and we have increased the bottom line. We've also made it more profitable to choose environmentally friendly. We have continued the exemptions from taxes on the purchase of electric cars, which has made us that country in the world with the largest share of zero-emission cars. Today, more than half of all new passenger cars in Norway are electric cars, and we aim to sell almost exclusively zero-emission cars in 2025. This is the 16th budget unit on the civil side since 2013, and with this consensus our parties show that we are taking responsibility for getting Norway out of the crisis safely. We agree on further measures to speed Norway up again. We strengthen the municipal compensation system, so that assistance can quickly come up against local challenges. We know that many municipalities have appreciated that scheme, and when we strengthen the scheme, it is a recognition of how tough it can be when you are hit unforeseeable and at short notice in the municipalities. This will enable municipalities to help industries that can quickly find themselves in a difficult situation without having to wait too long for help. And to the municipal sector, I have the following appeal: it is important to get this money out quickly and in good dialogue with the local business community. We also agree on a billion extra for transportation. It will help to keep the activity up and connect the city and build closer together. Now, hopefully everyone who's so lucky to travel on vacation in Norway this summer will be able to drive on well maintained highways and pay lower ferry fares, and they may also run a place where there was a bomb before, but which we'll eventually get removed. We can all benefit from that. We agree on 350 million. in measures to improve people’s physical and mental health. For many, the crisis has been extra tough, and we still do not know what lasting tracks the crisis will put on. We have to avoid it becoming the most vulnerable among us who have to pay the largest bill. They need better help, they need better help, and this will help provide better opportunities for vulnerable children and young people. For us, it's important that the time from someone knows that they need help, until they actually get it, is reduced. That's why we're helping to help buy private treatment capacity in psychiatry and thus reduce this time. For those waiting for treatment, there is nothing to say where the treatment comes from, but that they get help. The challenges we faced before the coronary crisis have not disappeared. What we used to call dark clouds in the horizon in previous perspective reports are clouds that are now approaching at record speed. And on the way out of the crisis, we still have to solve the climate challenges, get more people to work, make sure that the next generation gets a better starting point than what we've got, and if we're going to make it, we have to make sure that more jobs are created in the private sector. Nine out of ten who have been licensed, work in the private sector, and I hope that the opposition, in such a situation, will not resort to increased taxes and charges for Norwegian business. We need more people who want to invest in Norwegian private jobs, not fewer. Then taxes must be kept down and market access kept up. The left side's tax havens, which are nothing to boast of, I would say, never fit worse than now. Never. Through this consensus on the civil side, we are presenting a package that makes it more profitable to invest in Norwegian jobs, which is speeding up the Norwegian economy, and which provides valuable replenishment for Norwegian workers. In total, these measures will help to create more and include more. Finally, I would like to mention proposal No. 185, on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. And as a result of decisions taken yesterday, and decisions taken later today, which lead to adjustments in amounts from and to some items in the Inst. 600 S for 2020-2021, I take up proposal No on behalf of the Committee. 215.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e184	The representative Mudasar Kapur then addressed the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e191	I would like to begin by thanking Mr Kapur for his good cooperation in the Financial Committee this session, for having many issues dealt with in a good way. If we are to look ahead a little bit of what is the consensus on the civil side – if there is to be a new bourgeois majority – it is to cut the tax on equity, including commercial property. Right, promise over 7 billion. kr in tax cuts on property taxes, where almost half of these are property related to commercial property – 3 billion. kr in order to make it tax-free to have property in commercial property. My question is: what about the Norwegian economy, and the commercial property market in particular, which makes it imperative to make it tax-free to have its wealth in commercial property, when it costs the community over 3 billion. Do you really want to delete this item?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e200	Let me first start by saying why it's important for us to cut the tax on working capital, which is the main theme of the replicator. There is no doubt that taking away Norwegian ownership in the years to come will be crucial. We're going to get out of a crisis how many companies have been on the brink of bankruptcy, and helping these companies out of the crisis becomes important. In such a setting, I think it is quite special that the Workers' Party, of all those who are now engaged in jobs, chooses to say that they should increase the wealth tax by 7 billion. kr, surgically directed towards those who create Norwegian jobs. It is absolutely right that we also want to reduce the taxes on wealth on commercial property and in the long term equate it with what we want to do on working capital. Our goal of removing the tax on working capital will also result in us removing the property tax on commercial property. It's because it's an important part of what people do with both industry and investment.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e207	Almost eight years ago, our fellow good colleague from the Right, Gunnar Gundersen, introduced me to a company called Curida. After that, I have worked a lot to help develop the production at that factory. It's about medicine production, preparedness production, and there's been a lot of factory visits, lots of beautiful words. The Prime Minister has been there, the Minister of Finance has been there, the Minister of Health has been there, I have been there myself, many colleagues from the Progress Party and the Right have been there, and the NHO has been there, but then it happens very little. The party of progress is concerned with action and not just words and empty promises. In the national health and hospital plan last year, the Progress Party agreed on a decision to engage in dialogue with relevant environments to explore the possibility of local or Norwegian production of medicinal products and emergency production, but unfortunately nothing has happened in particular. Then we got a new decision in ours that we were going to start manufacturing in Norway. What does Kapur think about the progress in this matter, and what will Kapur do to ensure that the decisions on enlargement are implemented more quickly?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e214	The first thing I think, is that when so many others have been there, I almost wonder if I have to go there too. That's the first thing I think. Having said that, I would say that the government is pursuing an offensive policy to strengthen pharmaceutical production in Norway. The government has previously provided the Medication, proper use – better health, Report. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. The government wants to have a bet where we provide innovative environments in this field. We have also presented an action plan for clinical studies, so there are some things that are being done in that field. I will be careful to go in and discuss individual companies or, for that matter, individual brands or individual medicines. I think that might turn out a little unlucky in the debate, because there may be signal effects that we shouldn't necessarily give from the Great Britain's pulpit, but on a general basis I can refer to the bets made by the government. I'm absolutely sure the government is going to follow up on these, and then we're going to put pressure on the government to follow up the action plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e221	This is the last round of budget after eight years of right-wing government, and then we see what the election is. When the Right joined the government in 2013, the trade deficit with the rest of the world for mainland Norway was 152 billion. kr. By 2020, it was 312 billion. kr. We see from the numbers that we get now, that the deficit is going to increase even more in 2021. We have smaller and smaller numbers when we look at what we export, what we sell from mainland Norway, compared to what we import. The arrows are going in the wrong direction, and we are increasingly dependent on our oil and gas industry being able to finance the Community promises we have. What is Mudassar Kapur's description that there will be more and more negative trade balance for mainland Norway? Does right view it as a positive development, or is it a negative development?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e228	I thank you for the question. There's no doubt that we all have to work to improve those numbers, and you've done that knowingly. But we also have to look at a little bit of the background for this. At least some of this is because we have had a number of large investments in Norway. We have a large export from the oil and gas industry. But if I'm not completely wrong, there were some good numbers that came not so many days ago, which indicated that we've finally begun to see a change in that trend, and that's because you've taken a number of important steps. We now see the changes and hope that the next quarters and half-years will continue along that trend line. It's a little special of the representative not to refer to the latest news in that field. I also have to say that it is very special to see that care and care for trade and the Norwegian trade balance when you represent a party that will close Norway's opportunities to trade with one of our very largest markets by attacking the EEA Agreement. It's very special.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e233	In the budget setting, the government parties and the Right write that on the way out of the crisis there will be a need for a rapid slowdown in the exceptional use of money that we have had in the crisis. It is written at the same time as the government parties, together with the Progress Party in the budget agreement, increase oil money consumption by 2.5 billion. In a budget which is already quite expansively revised. At the same time, permanent tax cuts are being carried out that come to the top of a coronary year with a wide range of permanent tax cuts to the delight of the richest in the country, including, among others, taxes on wealth but also within shower, sugar, alcohol and snuff. How does this relate to the remarks made by the government parties in the budgetary position?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e239	Our remarks, our figures, our budgetary position and our policies are very closely related. They're very different than SVS. It is quite right that we believe that reducing taxes and taxes means that we provide Norwegian companies, Norwegian shops, a small help on the road, for example. in competition with Swedish trade, because it causes some baits to get a little lower prices and that we may be able to help make the transition, when society opens up, a little milder for them. At the same time, we believe that having a tax policy that makes it profitable to create Norwegian jobs, which makes it profitable to have a Norwegian owner instead of a foreign owner, is a policy that is important to create the jobs of the future, to create the business of the future, and not least to have Norway safely through the crisis. I sincerely believe that SV's eagerness to increase taxes, by believing that this crisis is resolved, is completely wrong policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e244	With that, the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e249	This is only a revised budget. The long lines were created a long time ago. They were put in the budget for 2014, when the Right Government joined, and for the eight years they have run this country. Norway is a fantastic country. We have a high population, we have natural resources, we have a strong professional environment, we have a high level of equality, and then we have many possibilities. But so is Norway facing quite major challenges. We see that while at the beginning of 2021 there have been twice as many long-term unemployed as in 2012, there have been fewer measures to get a job. We also see that there are now twice as many young performers as it was when the Right-Registration joined, and we see that there are almost no substantial bets to give them the opportunity to get to work. Nor are we in the vicinity of cutting climate emissions fast enough to achieve our own climate targets and to avoid major climate change. Norway needs to become a more equitable society with welfare for everyone, where we cut climate emissions and provide for safe jobs. The Labour Party believes that it must soon be common people's turn, and it will be if we get a labor party government to the fall. It's time to change the priorities for the country – from talking about those who like to have money from before to talking about those who like to go to work. There are ordinary lives and wallets, and not tax cuts to the richest ones, which must now be on top of the agenda. This means that the Labour Party will prioritise work for everyone, a stronger welfare state that is there for you no matter where you live or how much or little money you have, and a fair climate policy that cuts emissions and creates jobs. In the wake of the financial crisis, we saw that in many European countries a working life was developing where there were poorer working conditions. We saw growth in unemployment among young people, increased use of temporary contracts and more involuntary part-time work. One could also see the contours of a hold that people now had to be grateful that they had a job to go to, and that driving and massing that there had to be safe jobs in addition would be too much. It is so important that we encourage the work that comes into the wake of this crisis to be safe jobs, that there is a whole set of settings in a safe and serious working life. There is some reason why we propose a commitment to this revised budget – to create more jobs and to get more in secure jobs – a commitment of nearly 2.8 billion. kr more. Within this framework, there is also a commitment to a serious and organised working life in which supervision is strengthened in such a way that it has consequences to operate in grey zones or carry out work crime. In the last eight years, the welfare state has also been shaved. Right has called it an ABE reform. But the only thing she has reformed is the budget for public welfare – not the content, not the working conditions, not the quality. One knows that repeated annual cheese ratios are proven to be the least effective way to streamline. Nevertheless, these are the workers in the public sector. Rather, the Labour Party will strengthen public welfare. Our reform will not be about spending less money, but about spending more money – in cooperation with them and with emphasis on the needs of users. It's also how we need a fairer climate policy. Therefore, I am particularly concerned about the development of Norwegian exports. The trade deficit has increased, and the pandemic of course has shaken Norwegian industry, but what we see is that countries that are our traditional trading partners in Europe and in the United States are reversing the course of industrial policy so that they can create jobs and cut emissions. While in Norway we hanged on the back. The Labour Party will do something about that. There's some reason why we've submitted a green industrial package of almost 1.2 billion. kr only in this revised budget. This is the last revised budget for this majority period. In the fall, it will be possible to choose a new course for Norway, and with a labor party government, the course will be that it will finally be the turn of ordinary people – for safe jobs, for better well-being and for a fair climate policy that creates jobs and gives people more opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e266	Would the representative, Tajik, like to comment on the Labour Party's proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e271	That's what the representative does.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e276	Then the representative hadja Tajik mentioned the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e283	We have recently seen that the Workers' Party has been very good at launching guarantees, among other things. in the tax field. It's a very special guarantee, because you guarantee that the taxes will be raised. It is guaranteed to take care of non-resident owners instead of Norwegian owners, and it is guaranteed that the tax policy of the Workers' Party applies. In a way, it's good, because it's a clarification, and you stand for your own policy. At the same time, the Workers' Party, if, against all presumption, they would be in a position to do something properly out of their promises, depending on support from, among other things. SV. Which part of the tax commitments of other parties must give way to the guarantee of the Workers' Party, or is that guarantee just an election vow?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e292	It is that the parties can guarantee for their own policies, and the Workers' Party can guarantee that with a Labour Party-Leia government it will be common people's turn even when it applies to taxes and taxes. For what our proposal is about is that people with ordinary and average incomes are going to experience tax cuts with the Workers' Party. They will have more in their wallets, while those with high incomes and high wealth will have to pay more. Nor is it that Norwegian companies have nothing to worry about, because we are very clear that we are going to keep company taxes at the same level as today. The tax arrangements of the Workers' Party guarantee, are fictitious conditions in what is a demanding economic time, but it also ensures something that is very important, and that is distribution. I would say that is very lacking in the tax system of the Right. Whether something is distributed across the board to people who have a lot of space. If the Right implements the plan to cut property taxes on axles and commercial property, it equals nearly 7 billion. kr, where most of the time goes to the 10 pst. Richest.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e301	Let me follow up this tax trail. The representative states that the Workers' Party's guarantee to increase the tax by 7 billion. NOK in the case of Norwegian ownership applies. Let me just follow up the point with the distribution view from a slightly different point of view. If the real representative at all looks at the paradox that the distribution policy that will arise between Norwegian ownership and foreign ownership of the Labour Party's wealth tax policy will end up giving greater benefits to an enterprise that has foreign owners, rather than taking care of a Norwegian owner and jobs. Why is it that the Labour Party believes that good business policy is to bet on Norwegian industry and business, but that one of the main competitive advantages, or at least the balances, could be met with foreign ownership, especially on the way out of a pandemic?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e308	I'm especially pleased with this very question. We are very concerned that the framework conditions for Norwegian companies should be good, and not least that they should have good intentions to increase the possibilities for Norwegian exports, which has been weighty under the right-wing government. When we look at foreign owners and their framework conditions, we know – when a comparable number compares – that foreign owners pay more capital taxes than Norwegian ones, because they have different forms of capital taxation than we do in Norway. We have even asked Kapur's Minister of Finance about this, and through him we found out that the property tax or corporate tax in Norway actually had to increase by 26 and 51 billion. if we were to treat Norwegian owners in the same way as foreign owners. So the reality of the kind of equal treatment that Kapur's representative suggests, or think of it as a good idea, is that an increase in taxes on Norwegian companies. The working party has not been proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e317	I fully agree with the representative Tajik that Norway is an amazing country, but the trade leakage to Sweden costs Norwegian business several thousand jobs, and a high Norwegian level of fees is the main reason why people drive to Sweden for hours. In Denmark, a significant reduction in taxes on typical border trade products was introduced some years ago to counteract trade leakage to Germany, and border trade slowed down sharply almost overnight. The representative Svein Roald Hansen from the Workers' Party has said to the trade magazine ProBeer that you will look into the Danish experience and see if it is a lesson to learn from. Does this mean that the Workers' Party will also be involved in a reduction in the taxes on alcohol and tobacco, as the representative Hansen suggests to the NHO industry paper?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e327	The Labour Party is aware that Norwegian enterprises should also have good head offices in the context of border trade and border trade issues. That's why we have suggested earlier in this room that one should have a holistic review of the changes needed to secure the framework conditions for the Norwegian companies. This is also the case, for example. linked to what is commonly referred to as the sugar levy, that there has been a lot of discussion in the Labour Party about how to ensure that it has a device that does not allow a framework for the competitiveness of Norwegian enterprises. This has meant that after a health assessment, we have fallen down to the fact that there is a need to make changes in it. But it is necessary to see the soundness of this, and that is why we have put forward this proposal earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e334	We need to cut greenhouse gas emissions, and it is important to do so within the industry. That is why, in recent years, we have strengthened the Research Council, Innovation Norway, Enova and put Nysnø in place to achieve this. But we also need to cut emissions in Norway. We have just presented a climate plan to cut emissions in the non-quota sector. Transport is important. We have to cut 50 pst. within transport, and we have set a target of selling only a zero-emission vehicle in 2025. The Workers' Party has announced that they will impose VAT on the most expensive electric cars. Is it therefore most important for the Workers' Party to introduce VAT, or is it more important to achieve the objective of selling only a zero-emission vehicle? If it's not most important just to sell a zero-emission vehicle in 2025, isn't it that fair climate policy really just means removing climate action?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e341	In order for more people to buy electric cars, there must be a realistic alternative for more cars. This means that we need a charging infrastructure across the country that does not take a risk by buying an electric car when running a longer distance, but is sure that it is actually possible, regardless of whether a cage is located in the middle of a big city or further in the district. That is why the Labour Party has proposed a fairer approach to the VAT exemption on electric cars and that those who buy the most expensive electric cars, luxury cars or the like, electric cars above NOK 600 000 pay VAT for the amount above NOK 600 000. The money will be used to build charging infrastructure. With our alternative budget, you could have charging stations in all the municipalities in the country, including those that don't have charging stations today. Had one incorporated it into the assessment by the Transport Economic Institute, one might also have seen that it could have had a meaning for faster cut in climate emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e350	The cord shift is with the change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e355	Today we are witnessing a remarkable turnaround from two parties that have never previously been subject to Norwegian taxes on border products. This must be due to the fact that the campaign is imminent. As the party to the progress, the revised agreement was fully implemented to remove the full charge on non-alcoholic beverages, thus reducing the price difference between Norwegian and Swedish mineral waters. The alarming fact is that the Workers' Party and the Centre now seem to support the proposal in their primary proposals here today. It's actually a positive turnaround. Let me illustrate how spectacular this turns out to be. In its alternative state budget from 2015 until 2020, the Central Party has jointly proposed a total of 45 billion. kr in net tax reinforcements. This is a huge amount of money. In these numbers it hides, among other things. increased alcohol levy, increased tobacco taxes, increased customs duties and the reversal of the Party of Progress tax-free change from revised 2014. The only border trade product that the Senter Party has been fighting for years to liquidate is the levy on juice. Let me assure the Center Party that it is not only the juice of the Swedish merchants who are used to filling up their shopping carts, but the Progress Party has, with today’s agreement, also removed the juice tax – to the delight of Norwegian juice producers. Although this happens suddenly, in an election year, it is gratifying that both the Labour Party and the Centre Party have recognised the importance of tax reductions to limit border trade and safe Norwegian jobs in the food industry and in trade in goods. Let me thank the government parties for a good agreement on the broad lines of the revised budget and constructive discussions along the way. Today, however, the Progress Party is promoting a primary proposal. This proposal is not about dissatisfaction with the many good measures in the audit unit, but about the fact that the Progress Party wants to promote its own principal recovery proposals relating to quota refugees, CO 2 storage and the use of aid money. These are proposals which, unfortunately, the Progress Party is all alone, but which would in the long term bring massive savings to the State budget. Socio-economic profitability is probably also very high. The review team contains a lot of good things, actually so many that I can't mention everyone in a short post. I mentioned the removal of the levy on non-alcoholic beverages, and together with the closure of the levy on sugar and chocolate products, which we received in the State budget of the year, this is important in order to ensure Norwegian jobs. We have also had an impact on many important measures in the field of transport, including: reduced ferry prices by 25 pst. from 1 July, 750 million. kr for the removal of tolls of six selected distances and 100 mills. kr extra for road maintenance and asphalting. The increase in maintenance and 100 million. kr extra to broadband is particularly important for District Norway, among others. in North Norway, where Arctic Connect is a very exciting project that can produce major local ring effects. The Progress Party has also made a solid commitment to strengthen support for the mentally ill, and funding is increasing by 450 million. DKK including 100 million. kr for new medicines and treatment. The capital grant to private kindergartens is guaranteed for the second half of the year, so that Norway can continue to enjoy the private kindergartens, which parents are even more satisfied with than the municipalities. The remaining maximum in the net pay scheme will be abolished by 2021. That's good for Norwegian seafarers. It's also going to be allocated $15 million. additional to increased sea readiness and new police boats with special priority for Lister in Agder and Sandvika in Bærum, which belong to a large police district with a long archipelago. With this, I will address the proposals of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e383	The representative Hans Andreas Limi has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e390	The representative Limi did not mention is what was a historic and important matter here in the Storting 15 days ago, where we got a much more worthy, better, fair and correct compensation for fur animal husbandry and the loss of entrepreneurial income in the future. Then the Progress Party agreed with SV, the Center Party and the Workers' Party that it must have a significantly better order. We hope that the payments will come quickly, without delay, and that one can now immediately after the decision is taken, get speedy payments and actually exceed what has been entered into the budget. My question is, with the self-satisfaction Limi had over what they had got, why haven't they got a single penny more to the fur farmers, who are going to guarantee a faster payment of a very important decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e397	We are very pleased that we have established the consensus on an increased compensation for fur animal nutrition, which is abandoned by a political decision. It'll cost you. We have incorporated the tax technical changes into the revision so that fur farmers are guaranteed tax exemptions for the compensation paid. We know that what is paid out directly will come. Money has been paid out, and money will be passed until the liquidation is completed by 1 January 2025. But as the representative of Terje Aasland should know, this is an estimate. All the money is not paid this year. They are distributed over several years. It is an estimate, so there is no need to increase the appropriations in the revised budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e402	In fact, it is obvious that payments are going to continue now, and there are going to be bigger budget lines in the current year than in the revised national budget. That's why it's completely incomprehensible that the Progress Party, which was so committed to making a rapid change and rapid payments, has not budgeted for it, because it would have been to emphasize the clear consensus that was here, really against the government's will. For the government has opposed and is bound to oppose what has been adopted in this Chamber on fur animal husbandry. So I'm very surprised that the Progress Party hasn't put in a single penny, but has added it with the tax consequences. It's good that we agree on this too, but that it's not one penny is absolutely amazing. My question is: If the Advance Party is to enter into a new settlement at a later date, will one then ensure that the fur farmers receive legal compensation? Or has it only been expressed by decisions that do not have a direct impact on the economic priorities the Progress Party must make?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e409	I have to say that it is quite remarkable how little faith the representative of Aasland has in a decision on big business. In my world, it is the government's duty to follow decision-making. The size has decided to improve the compensation scheme for fur farmers, and that will be followed up by the government. As I said, this is an estimate. Not all the money will be paid this year, they will be distributed over several years. But that's the decision the Storting has taken, which underlies the payments. We had to incorporate the tax engineering into the revised legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e414	It is fascinating to hear that the representative Limi feels the need to use large parts of his post on history descriptions regarding fees. If we look at the period when the Progress Party put in government and had the finance minister, the fees in Norway increased to a record high level, and then one has tried in opposition to get some of the fees down again. But the phase after the Progress Party has first been part of the government and then the supporting party to the government in recent years, after figures from the Ministry of Finance, is that the fees, including revised, are now higher than when Siv Jensen took over as Minister of Finance. Some charges have fallen, but in sum they have gone up. The Progress Party is now involved in introducing a new fee on fish, and in addition, the fee for some of those who have been most hit by the pandemic – travel life, transport, cultural services – will double from 1 October. Why does the Progress Party think that it makes sense to do to some of those who have been hit hardest and are still hard hit by the pandemic?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e422	I believe that the representative Gælsvik is well immigrated and plunges into the tax and tax history. I guess I'm not the first to do that, but I think it's a little bit important to figure out what's historically correct. It is not that you can isolate taxes from taxes that are linked. In our government's time, some decisions have been made in Stortinget to increase taxes, which have been partly compensated by tax relief, but what is important is to look at what the Progress Party has done after we left the government. Now we're negotiating a budget with the government parties, and we're sitting on the other side of the table. In the course of two negotiations, first on the state budget for 2021 and now on the revision, we have reduced the fees by more than 8 billion. kr, if you look at the annual effect. We think that's a very good start. We have reduced important taxes, on border trade products that are being abolished, and this is important to ensure Norwegian jobs both in industry and in Norwegian goods trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e427	Nor did the representative Limi mention the promise made by the new leader of the Progress Party about a pay gap for health and care workers – all the important professions that have really worn out under the pandemic and that need a paylift. That's why SV has added 10 billion. SEK to the local economy for next year. But the promise of the Advance Party was clearly a bluff, for there are no things in revision. I lead the municipal committee, and in the municipal economy for next year, the Progress Party has not put in a single penny. On the contrary, they have announced that they will cut off the entire property tax. That's almost 15 billion. kr. They're telling us that they're going to remove the property tax, and it's almost 15 billion. Add kr. So for almost 30 billion. KS shall conduct wage and salary negotiations for these professions. Can Limi explain how this is going to happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e432	Limi can do that. Firstly, it is absolutely right that at our national meeting, a resolution was adopted which briefly states that we want to step up the conditions for health workers – not only a stepping-up in terms of wages but also looking at recruitment. How can we ensure that more people apply to these professions? Then, of course, we have to look at the course of education. We have not been able to get through concrete appropriations in revised negotiations in this area, but we have got an agreement or proposal together with the government parties where we address this very clearly and ask the government to come back with a plan in the state budget for 2022. This means that there is a proposal from the government that the Stortinget is given the opportunity to deal with, and then you can imagine a stepping up over several years to improve conditions, increase recruitment and also increase educational capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e439	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e444	Norway is a fantastic country, with some enormous opportunities, and the Centre Party is concerned that people will be able to live, work and live a good life throughout Norway. If we are to be able to contribute to this, we need to provide good and safe jobs and new investments around the whole of Norway. We have to provide good services near people. We must take care to settle with the political-driven, powerful centralisation that today's government and the support party, the Progress Party, have over time stood by. We must ensure the security of people's lives and provide security and security. We need to take care of Norwegian interests and jobs. We must ensure that we are masters in our own house and do not give up power to the European Union in ever new areas. We must ensure – not least – that we take back control of vital parts of Norwegian energy and industrial policies so that we can build jobs in Norway in the future. I record that there is a good deal of attention, including on the part of the committee chairman, about the history of the process of dealing with the pandemic. In a number of contexts, the Storting Group has gathered on important measures that have been absolutely necessary to strengthen government-led measures and has also introduced new measures that have not been on the government’s table. There has been a serious situation, where workers have not known whether they have a job to go to tomorrow, where companies have been in danger of going bankrupt and self-employed people have been in danger of losing their life's work, and where there are many who have lived with great concern for themselves and their closest ones, linked to both the spread of infection and its consequences. The Centre Party shall have, inter alia: are concerned that a person should have a separate income insurance scheme for self-employed persons. Time and again, we have also proposed changes and adjustments to the compensation schemes, so that they would make better and fairer. And we're going to do that this time as well. Fortunately, although the overall trend is better in some industries, and Norway is gradually returning to a reopening, many people are still struggling. The availability and number of lay-offs were higher at the end of May than when we dealt with the state budget last autumn. If you look at some of the hardest hit industries, such as travel, aviation and other transport, the arrows have been pointing down further in recent months. Then we can hope that the travel life gradually gets into the kneeling. And what are they going to meet? Indeed, from the government parties and their supporting party, the Progress Party, and in this context, unfortunately also the Workers' Party, a double charge for some of those who have been most hit by the pandemic, some of those who have struggled to survive through the pandemic as businesses, who have had to quit workers, who have had to permite workers, who have run out of equity, and who, through the summer and early harvest perhaps start to get the wheels back on their feet, have some activity. They shall experience from 1 October that for each additional crown they are able to transfer, they shall receive a double charge. It's a targeted attack on some of those who have been hardest hit by the pandemic. It is completely unintelligible that one should have the fee back to the record high level it was at before the pandemic started and the travel industry went reasonably well. If you look at the predictions that include: Nav presents, they show that the tourism industry is just one of those who will notice the consequences of the pandemic the longest, and similar to aviation. What you also see is a very serious development. It is that foreign buying-in funds are now positioning to enter and buy up travel businesses around Norway, so that they lose local anchoring, losing national ownership, which in the next round, when the activity opens up again, can lead to a lot of growth and value creation going abroad rather than around Norway — travel life, which is such an important industry in both rural and urban areas of Norway. Then to the aviation. Norwegian aviation has been hit hard. It was immediately hit by the pandemic and has been hard hit throughout the pandemic. A real compensation scheme for aviation has not yet been put in place. What is adopted in the current revision is likely to mean little or nothing for the Norwegian airlines. I record that in the case of the airlines, one should use every opportunity to try to exonerate that one should provide support to the companies, saying that they have not gone bankrupt. But that is not the principle we have used when we have supported more than 11,000 enterprises in different sectors of Norway. No, it's that one should compensate fixed, unavoidable costs because one has been subject to strict restrictions along the way in the pandemic. That's also why it would have been right and reasonable to compensate the airlines, as a majority of the Stortinget have previously asked. In January, the Progress Party and the Workers' Party, together with the Centre Party, were involved in asking the government to submit a compensation scheme for aviation. One can ask the Progress Party and the Workers' Party what has happened since January, which means that one does not think that the need is still present. On the contrary, the closure has resulted in more severe developments in aviation during this period than foreseen. Then to the trade deficit. I noted that the committee leader commented that we had seen new figures that meant that we had had a trend shift, a positive trend in the trade deficit from mainland Norway. But it's just to go in and look at the new figures presented by the Statistical Central Bureau a few days ago, which are up-to-date as of the end of May 2021. They're showing a trade deficit for mainland Norway of 117.8 billion. kr. It's the largest trade deficit ever recorded for the first five months of the year, and 6 pst. greater than the corresponding period last year, when we ended up with a record trade deficit. The trade deficit has been weakened year after year. Every year during today's government, the trade deficit for mainland Norway has weakened. Therefore, there is a need for a strong commitment to the use of the rich natural resources we have in Norway, to new industrial activities, to new industrial activities, to ensure that we have a new activity in Norway, to ensure that we have a targeted strategy to use public procurement to strengthen Norwegian jobs, to Norwegian investments, instead of, as the majority of today have contributed, that important investments and crisis response along the way in the pandemic end up in the Netherlands, Turkey or other countries instead of strengthening Norwegian maritime industry or other parts of Norwegian industry. We have to be aware that when we are in the aftermath of a pandemic and are going to return to activity in Norway in important areas, get people back to work, get the investment back up, we have to have a policy for Norway as a whole. We need a policy that facilitates good service provision, and we need a targeted policy that facilitates growth and value creation across Norway. With our alternative revised budget, we have several measures that build up around it. We have a strengthening of public services in a number of areas. For example, we have a stake on real estate agencies, which is a major challenge in many places in the country. We have a focused effort on local police to make people around Norway feel that the police are more present, secure security in everyday life, have a shorter response time. We have a more powerful bet on broadband. We support the fact that one reduces the ferry tariffs; it should only be lacking that one does not follow the Storting decision on it, but it must also apply to speedboats. We have a reinforcement of a film-incentive scheme, and we have a bet against race, flood and escape, to mention something. In sum, it's about how we're going to build Norway in the future, how we're going to make sure that we get everyone, all those who are now at risk of staying out of work, not least young people and people without completing high school. This is precisely why it is important to take care of some of the industries that have been hard hit by the pandemic. I would like to take up with it the proposals of which the Central Party is alone or part.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e472	The representative, Sigbjørn Gülsvik, then addressed the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e479	Right goes to the election to remove the tax on working capital, and we do that to take care of Norwegian ownership, especially now at a time when many Norwegian companies experience red numbers. The centre party says that they are occupied with Norwegian ownership – almost independently of questions they say it in any answer. But they do not follow it up in their policies. The tax on working capital as a whole shall be collected. In the newspapers Businesses in More and Romesdal, the representative, Mr Görlsvik, explains this as follows: ‘It does not help with general relief, which makes them capital-likely to invest in property in cities or in a London-based tradesmanship.’ So I almost have to ask: can the representative mention a few examples of owners of small and medium-sized enterprises who were in the choice of investing in their own business and buying a manager in London?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e489	The right is to remove what is called the tax on working capital, on the basis of a definition of removing the property tax on all shares. So it's not just the active owners in their own company. The centre batch has proposed to reduce the valuation of the directly owned assets, which is targeted at active owners in their own holding. But removing the property tax on all shares is just to be able to remove the property tax for many of those who are in the choice of whether to invest in a business in Norway, in a business in London or in a property in cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e494	So there is no example of Norwegian business owners standing in this election. Then I really think that should be taken up by the Center Party. Another question: The government just sent a proposal for a job tax deduction for young people to be consulted. For a newly-trained skilled worker, young people in the start-up phase and students with part-time jobs, this is an important incentive, and it is an important handshake when building up capital to perhaps buy housing — the beginning of life. In 2017, the vice president of the Center Party, Ola Borten Moe, went to the VG and wanted job tax deductions for everyone. Can I understand it so that the Center Party will support a job tax deduction for young people?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e501	The centre party is in a positive position to look at measures to make it easier for young people to enter the labour market and that young people who often also have low incomes may be left with a higher share of their income after tax. We have a tax regime that means that those who have low incomes, but also medium incomes, will be left with more of their income than what today's majority, with the Right and the Support Party, have stood by. If our proposal had been adopted, this would include: many young people, but also many others with low incomes, have received lower taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e506	Tax is important, because it is a crucial part of the framework conditions for Norwegian enterprises. Foreign capital increases the rate of purchase of Norwegian enterprises. ‘It forces us to discuss the value of national ownership’, Dagbladet wrote after Norwegian Forest was taken over by a foreign investment fund. For the Progress Party, it is essential that Norwegian-owned enterprises and business owners do not have a worse framework than foreign. Property taxes and taxes on working capital are a hindrance to Norwegian-owned enterprises, and it favours non-resident owners, such as: Chinese and Russians. The centre party has proposed to increase both the property tax and the dividend tax. Is it so that it doesn't matter to the Central Party whether the companies are owned locally or from China? And where does the limit of favoring foreign ownership go?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e514	Of course, any tax has any consequences for the person who has to pay the tax. And so is income tax. Clearly, for those who pay income taxes, it would have been better not to pay taxes on that income. But we're going to have funding for the community, and we think one should have a tax and tax level that is about as it is today. But we also believe that those with high wealth and high incomes can contribute something more to the community, so as to reduce some of the charges that affect those who have at least before, while at the same time reducing the tax on those who have at least. Then it is important to facilitate investments both in forest and wood processing, for example Norwegian Forest. Then we have to have framework conditions that will facilitate this, and for example, as the Centre Party has called for, a green state investment company that can contribute on the ownership side in order to ensure national ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e521	I have chosen to read the number that the Center Party proposes in its alternative arrangement. Or, "Cast me" may not be the right words, because I was a little worried about them as I looked at them, because there is a new set of measures that give lasting costs for years to come, and then they calculate the six-month effect of those measures, as they do not show where they are going to take the money from. So the representative points to some of the tax accumulators on which you go to elections, for example. in Norwegian ownership, but it is not yet enough to cover the full-year effect of the measures put forward by the Centre Party in its configuration. So what other taxes and taxes is the Central Party adding up? Or is the answer to take from the oil fund for years to come when the Central Party is going to give priority to its resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e528	I can recommend the representative, Mr. Storehaug, when he might be going back to Sogn and the Fjordane after the session is over, to bring with him the Central Party's alternative state budget for the current year, where at the point after point, we have shown how we both have containment and re-prioritisation for the bets we have. We also have that in our alternative RNB, where we in the ordinary budget lines, if one ignores what are pure corona measures, which are once or for a limited duration, have a lower use of money than the majority have, among other things. by cutting more of the EEA funds than the majority of them do. Yes, I record that the majority themselves have cut a billion kroner in the revised amount in EEA funds, and that is a good thing on the way, but we should have done a lot more. One does not have to nail as many bird cases and the holiday of the goose as one does today through EEA funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e533	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e538	The last debate here in the Chamber before the fall's roll call is also a good opportunity to sum up Erna Solberg's eight-year term of government. Norway is a good country to live in. We have a great deal of trust in each other and in the authorities, which the coronary ape anemia has shown to be full. People have really set up and done their utmost. We also like to think that we have little differences here in the country. It's in our self-image. Nevertheless, the inequality in power and wealth is increasing. The differential growth has been greatly helped by Erna Solberg's government, for the fasitite after eight years of tax cuts is about 35 billion. kr i cut in taxes and charges. The wealth tax of the country's richest has been cut by 11 billion. kr. The only sure effect of that is that it has increased the inequality. The thousand richest people in the country have got 2 million. kr each in tax cuts on average over the period 2013-2020. The rest of the population has received a few thousand copies on average of reduced taxes. It has been targeted cut to the richest of the country. The number from the SSB shows that the 1 pst. The richest in the country are those who also pay least in taxes. They only pay somewhere between 10 and 20 pst. in taxes on real income – far below what a nurse or a teacher pays. Norway is at all a country where it is very good to be rich. There are now 362 billionaires in the country. We have more dollars billionaires than the United States and lower taxes on wealth than the OECD average. At the same time, there are also 180 000 people who are totally or partially unemployed. Of these, 76 000 have been job seekers for over a year. The Korona crisis has hit the social crisis, and those who have been hit hardest have been those with the lowest wage and education. Today, 111,000 children grow up in poor families, and the increase has been high under today's government. Alone mothers with young children need more social assistance now, after the government cut in the transitional aid. An unadulterated mother loses NOK 20 000 a year after the government cut in the children's supplement. Families with children who need glasses do not now get the financial assistance they need, after the government cut in the spectacle stand. The housing market reinforces the inequality between those inside and those outside. These are just some of the consequences of a policy that re-distributes from those who have the least, to those who have the most. When the richest get a greater share of income and wealth in Norway, they also increase their political power. A large proportion of both money and influence in the Norwegian community are concentrated among business peaks. The economic elite dominates the news picture and uses its economic muscles to get through. The richer they get, the more they can affect social development. While most of the countries around us have used the coronary apathy and the management of the economic crisis to make a completely necessary green transition, Norway has become even more firmly attached to the fossil industries. Norway has used a total of 4.2 billion. kr to green measures, but has given at least 33 billion. to the fossil industries, to the oil industry and aviation. According to the Ministry of Finance, Norway’s green share in crisis policy is only 2 p.m., and according to the Green Stimulus Index, Norway has the fifth most environmentally hostile corona policy of the 29 countries that have been measured. This follows in the footsteps of a government that actively maintains the oil and gas industry and that will not use the largest muscles to convert Norway in a greener direction. Several EU countries are now turning up green investment, but not Norway. The consequences for Norwegian industry are that there will be more aftouts and remain on the platform. A green recovery plan is needed for Norway. The aim must be to use the capacity of the economy to secure jobs in the future, to build new green industries within sea winds, hydrogen and battery production. The world has already found too much oil and gas. We can't look for any more. Finally, the Coronapandemic has thrown millions of people around the world into poverty and distress, and the gap between humanitarian needs and available resources is large and increasing now when several countries, such as Norway, warn to implement greater cuts in humanitarian aid and development. That's the opposite we now need, and as SV suggests here. Finally, I address the SV's proposal, with the exception of proposal No. 189, because there's a similar proposal for Gülsvik and the Center, but with the right number of years, and that's a good idea, so we'll draw ours.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e559	The representative Kari Elisabeth Kaski has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e566	The perspective statement shows that the number of pensioners is increasing sharply. There will be fewer people of working age, more who will receive welfare, and fewer who will pay for it. Then people have to work more, stand longer at work – no less. The SV's response to these challenges is six-hour day, more leisure time and several billion-class welfare reforms, which will in addition reinforce the recruitment challenges of many industries and municipalities, not least in District Norway. If we were to introduce the six-hour day today, we would need 34 000 more employees in school, 68 000 more in health and care. At the same time, we know that 11,000 workers are already lacking in health, care and care and about 3,000 in the education sector. Most people will see that this problem doesn't go up. How does SV get the math to go up?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e573	This is the Right interpretation of the figures in the Perspective Communication, based on Right Policy. The future need for containment will depend on the policy pursued, the political choices we make. Actually, the perspective message is really good news. It shows that Norway as a society is going to be much richer by 2060. We're all going to be a lot richer. The question is how we choose to redistribute and use that wealth – whether each of us should take responsibility for funding school, care for the elderly and the welfare we need, or whether we should fund it together. We see that thanks to today's government's large tax cuts for eight years, the need for coverage has increased. If only half of these tax cuts had been reversed, we would have no need of containment by 2030. So this just depends on how we choose to distribute wealth in society. Is it supposed to be personal first, or are we going to do problems together?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e582	I think it is quite alarming that SV rejects the demographic challenges, which we have clear evidence of. SV will increase taxes by 22 billion. kr. Everyone who earns over 600,000 kroner is going to pay a lot more," said Audun Lysbakken in Political Quarter before the national meeting. That group consists of 1.2 million Nordics. That group was referred to as the upper class in Norway, which had to prepare for tax increases with SV. Examples of occupations with an average annual salary of over SEK 600 000 are police officers, conductors, journalists, lecturers — or nurses, as the representative Kaski drew up in his contribution. This is only a tax on income. Most of the tax bill sends SV to a business life in crisis, companies in trouble after the worst crisis Norway has been facing since the war. Why would SV want to make it even more uncertain and difficult to get back to work for nine out of ten lay-offs, who had their job in private businesses?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e591	It's probably the government that does it, which chooses to make a budgetary settlement with the Progress Party, where oil money is increased by 2.5 billion. kr without any new measures to get the 180,000 people back to work. I also do not reject the demographic challenges that lie ahead. We fully agree on that. The question is what the political answers to it are. In any case, it may not be possible to carry out large tax cuts to the wealthiest in the country, which weaken the income of the community and also increase inequalities. It is not true that SV's arrangements for increasing the wealth tax affect companies. This means that we're taxing those who have the most important assets, more. It's just 2-3 pst. of the country’s owners who have had to collect money from the enterprise in order to be able to pay the property tax – 2-3 pst. We're going to be able to make arrangements for the 2-3 pst. which is good, and which takes care of Norwegian enterprises and Norwegian workers, but which does not imply that they pay less with the largest assets, as the Right’s proposal does.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e600	It's nice to hear the representative Kaski talk about foreign companies and how frail they are and everything possible, while she's really their best friend in relation to Norwegian companies, who live with excise duties that are quite typical of Norwegian companies, which make you lose out in competition. Norwegian beverage producers lose millions of kroner in turnover on excise duty on shower. One of those who have been involved in this excise duty and problems around it is Telemark Source Water, a local company located in the district of Telemark, which produces fantastic, beneficial water and also ‘private label’ for many companies. High Norwegian excise duties do not at least threaten Norwegian jobs in the Norwegian groceries and food industries. The big question of SV, which then wants to maintain excise duty on non-alcoholic beverages, is: Why does SV think it is more dangerous with a Pepsi Max sold in Norway than a Pepsi Max sold in Sweden, when they believe that the Norwegian fee should be much higher than what we have in our neighbouring country, so that parts of the country will actually be allowed to travel to Sweden, while others cannot and must pay more?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e610	I think the difference here is whether you're knowledge-based or not. That the Progress Party wants to cut down as much as possible on noise taxes and prioritizes it in budgetary negotiations with the government parties rather than measures that can actually get people to work, and rather than increasing the pay of the nurses and teachers, it is an honest matter, but unfortunately it will have no impact on the border trade. I also believe that the Progress Party must admit itself. We've gained the experience that if one closes the boundaries, it affects the border trade, naturally. But that's not the scenario we're going to see in the future. Then the boundaries will be open. Then even those who work on the other side of the border say that the tax cuts have been passed on in the case of noise, will have no effect. It's not the only thing that will affect whether people travel across that limit. If you want to do something about it, you have to either close the limit or do something about the quota. Finally, I do not think that the Progress Party will go to the elections, and then we will probably stand still there.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e617	SV will strengthen the commitment to the green shift out of the corona crisis, and that is fully agreed with the Left. There are, of course, reinforcements also in revision. So the representative Kaski points out that the government has a stake in the oil and gas industry, while it was important last year that we got an oil tax package, which I fully agree was too favourable for the oil and gas industry, but it was driven through from Stortinget – first with ordering a case for the government, and then through negotiations on the Stortinget, where it was the Stortinget at the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Advance Party that operated through measures for the oil and gas industries, which have proved to be far too favourable. So instead of directing his attack on the government, shouldn't SV really support the government in holding back measures against the oil industry and not now working because it's just the parties that ran this through, SV want in position?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e626	If we remember a year ago when negotiations were being held on the oil tax package, SV was definitely a brake pad in those negotiations and would like the government parties to keep up more. I don't think the Left here can put itself up as some sort of random victim being torn by the will of the Storting. The left also voted for that package. And we have history in this country that a government has gone off on a climate issue. A similar case was linked to gas power plants, on which Kjell Magne Bondevik agreed. So you had to be fully involved in the large subsidies to the oil industry, to be aware that it is the community that is now pushing forward new, large oil fields, which we fear will not be profitable for the community, which maintains an excessive search level on Norwegian soil, and which conflicts with climate research – it can hardly be left to the responsibility of SV, because we voted against that package.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e633	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e638	We have a very difficult year and a half with a pandemic behind us, a pandemic we're now lucky to be on our way out of. We get to think that we can now hold that course, so we're on our way out and we don't get any setbacks. Looking back, this has been good for most of the Norwegian economy, while we have parts of the economy that are still struggling. Now it is necessary to keep the crisis measures long enough, but not too long, so that they have a negative effect in the future. We have to take care of that part of the economy that's still struggling. It's still the outdoor industry and the travel industry. I am pleased that, in this revised budget and in agreement with the Progress Party, we have now further strengthened the support that goes to the outdoors, to travel life and to small businesses via the municipalities, to 750 million. kr now and another 550 mill. kr after the summer. But I'm concerned that a system that worked very efficiently when we first established it at Christmastime, and the money went out quickly to the companies, now much slower in the municipalities. Among other things, the previous allocation, which was granted just after Easter, has not yet been distributed in Oslo, and now we are making a new decision today. There's a lot of people who have had a hard time through the pandemic. I am therefore also pleased that we have approved a total of 266 million. to resume lost learning in children and young people. This is up to 160 million. kr granted earlier this year. We are strengthening integration measures by 100 million. kr, and in cooperation with the Progress Party, there is also a significant increase in mental health. As many have experienced, the most important crisis we face is the climate and natural crisis. Emissions in Norway have fallen — by 5 million tonnes in the last five years, by 1.7 million tonnes in the last year — but the rate of emission reduction has to rise dramatically in the decade we are in. To achieve the goal of 55 pst. reduction by 2050, we need to reduce emissions by 2.7 million tonnes each year. So we have to make a fundamental green transition. We have submitted a climate plan, we need to raise the CO 2 tax as an important instrument, and we need to keep to the tax exemptions we have, among other things. within transport, and the electric car billing we have to achieve the goal of only selling electric cars in 2025. We have to stick to measures until we know that we reach the targets. Then we have to have a commitment to green business development to bring down emissions, but also because it is fundamental to have a development and technology development in order to achieve the goal and strengthen the Norwegian economy with the change we are about to see into a less oil-dependent economy. That's why in the years to come we have to keep doing what we've been doing for eight years. For eight years, the Left and the government in all budgets have strengthened the instrument, with the Research Council and Innovation Norway, whether it is the Eco-Tech Scheme, the Green Platform now or Enova, and we also have a state investment company in Nysnø, which is established and built up. We're also strengthening the stakes now in revised by 100 million. kr to bet on hydrogen. This is happening at the same time as we have presented an energy message with a separate action plan for hydrogen investment. We have another 100 million. on the Green Platform and the circular economy, while the government has presented a circular economy strategy this week, and 25 million. In the context of the agreement with the Progress Party. In order to achieve the green shift, it is absolutely essential that we strengthen cooperation with Europe. The EEA Agreement cannot be put into play, and we must have as close cooperation as possible with the efforts that are elsewhere in Europe to achieve the objectives of Europe jointly, and also in Norway, in the decades we are now in. Finally, it's revised, so there's also some small sums. FutureBuild, investment in environmentally friendly construction in Oslo, is ensured in this [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e668	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e673	The representative of Elvesuen rightly said that we need a change of pace in Norwegian climate policy, and that is precisely why, in my opinion, the Left Party and the others who are now in government should be replaced. I should like to hear the representative of Elvesuen summing up how he thinks it has gone in the eight years left has actually been responsible, directly or indirectly, for this in Norway. When this government joined, a climate agreement had just been concluded that we were going down towards a greenhouse gas emission of 46 to 48 million tonnes last year, in 2020. The fasite we now know is that we're still at 50 million tons. So if we look at what Norway has seen as a whole since 1990, we've only cut the poor 2.9 pst, while the EU, for example, has cut up to 25 pst. How does the representative, Mr Elvesuen, think that the climate policy on the left has really been going on today, but where they may not have done so much?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e682	We've been acting on a continuous basis. We're down 5 million tons from the top level, and we're now 2.6 to 2.7 pst. above the 2020 target. The main cause of high emissions in Norway is the increase in the petroleum industry. In all other areas, we are far ahead. In transport in particular, no country in the world has achieved more than Norway. We have 60 pst today. bet on the sale of a zero-emission vehicle. We're going to reach 100 pst. by 2025. So let's do that with the left-hand side. No other country has such ambitions. Within green shipping, the river ferns raise sight. It also comes from fast boats and heavy transport, so developments in Norway are much faster than in any other country we can compare with. There is no doubt that the Left has been very central to achieving this on zero-emission solutions, and the commitment to biofuels that is crucial for achieving the emissions targets quickly is also the Left that has driven through these years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e691	In any case, Norway is making it worse than almost all comparable figures when we look at the macro results. The successful transport conversion that we've been working together had roots from a long time before Elvesuen and Left entered the positions they've had now. But I want to ask you something else, because we have not only a climate crisis, but also a natural crisis, and then we have to learn how to use resources in a much better way. At the very beginning of this period, in February 2018, the Stortinget decided by a very large majority that we should ask the government to come up with a circular economy strategy, i.e. for a reusable economy. We had to wait for that for three and a half years. It came this week, when there were three days left of the period. We had, however, enjoyed it, but great was the disappointment when we saw that it was largely just a good analysis of what is happening in the European Union, and what circular economy is, but that otherwise one should investigate, evaluate, come back and put down samples, as it is often called from this government. Is the representative of Elvesuen satisfied with the transition to the circular economy that must have taken place during the period he has been responsible for?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e700	Firstly, the circular economy initiative comes from the government unit and government platform, because we need to have a position where we're going to be internationally leading in the field of circular economy. In 2018, we had a waste report in Stortinget. It was important, and I thought it was important that it be adopted, but we needed a broader strategy for the circular economy. It's been working on – it's probably eight to nine departments inside it – and that's exactly what we got. This is a broad strategy covering all parts of the economy. It's not just about waste, it's exactly what we wanted to do. So it's always the way of a strategy that it's going to be presented and create the basis for and strengthen the work to go forward. This is a good strategy and will be implemented and operated in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e710	I fully agree with the representative of Elvesuen that we need a shift in the transport sector in order to achieve the climate objectives, but the paradox is that some of the things that remain after this government are the introduction of a full tax on biodiesel. This has led, among other things, to: Troms and Finnmark County have chosen to go from using renewable biodiesel – biodiesel that could have been produced in Fredrikstad – on most of their buses to use fossil diesel again, because it is much cheaper. It shows the real-life and bad climate policies that this government imposes, when even those who choose environmentally friendly alternatives are penalised with higher charges. How does the Left feel that this is linked to a good climate policy and policy to create a new Norwegian renewable industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e717	What remains after these two periods is that we have a completely different amount of biofuels used in Norway. We set a 20 pst inclusion requirement. back in 2015/2016, and it has been driven by both the inclusion requirement and the fact that there was a tax exemption outside that inclusion requirement. What was a challenge was that in a lot of the fuel, palm oil was also used for some years — with the deforestation risk it poses. By 2020, palm oil was not used in biofuels in Norway, so we have achieved that target. We are now using the instrument to rebuild the integration requirements in the years to come, both on car transport and on aviation – there we are the first country to introduce a requirement for blending biofuels. It shall be implemented in the climate plan and notified both within shipping and within construction.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e722	Last week the bomb came that Norway is breaking the climate target for 2020 – the climate target that Stortinget set itself several years ago, and that the government that Left has been part of now has promised to achieve. Not enough of that – since the Paris agreement was knocked through in Paris in December 2015, this government has released no less than 599 oil blocks to the oil industry. We are in a survey headed for the fifth most climate-friendly country in view of the Korona policy. What is the response of the Government and the Advance Party to this? Yes, new cuts in the revised national budget to bet on, among others. hydrogen. My question is, how can the Left defend such a miserable climate policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e729	Firstly, we have always said that this climate objective is difficult, but it is possible. The 2008 target, which is difficult to understand only, is the reduction in the increase, and it is a reduction. We get 90 pst. of it. We are between 2.6 and 2.7 pst. above that target in 2020. At the same time, we have reached agreement with the European Union that we jointly have climate targets by 2030, precisely to get a commitment for Norway and not just goals that are solved. Where have the fighting been in the petroleum sector? In Lofoten, the Vestral and Senja there is no expansion. The ice edge has been pulled south from when SV was put in government. Then the Left fully agrees that we must, also according to the IEA report, stop re-scanning in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e734	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e739	It is now that we have two debates going on. We have the debate on the revised national budget, and then we also sum up a major period. The Christian People's Party has been involved in making state budgets and in maintaining unity when we have both revised the state budget and created the state budget for the last eight years. There have been major victories, such as increases in child welfare and the introduction of teacher norms, and it has contributed to providing budgets that have converted Norway, with more resilient jobs, and not least that we have been a country that has taken responsibility and has gone to the front internationally, whether it is about climate or it is about refugee work. That's good. The background to this debate is serious, as most of the other debates we have had on the budget audits in the last year, because we have been faced with a great pandemic and the economic consequences that have been caused by both the pandemic and the infectious diseases we have taken up. I've said that before, but I think some times it's useful that even if there's things we could do differently, one must also look at how Norway has managed to compare to a lot of other countries. In summing up how different countries have managed to cope with the situation they have faced, both the IMF and the OECD conclude that Norway has managed well both to manage the health aspects and, not least, to have measures that have made it possible for Norway to be more economically comparable to other countries. But there are obviously major challenges, and there are not least major challenges that we are going to face in the future, in the light of the great shift we have to go through with the climate commitments, and that the rest of the world is going to be hit harder by this pandemic. Norway must continue to set up there. In the revised government, one from the government's side has been able to have a proper perspective when looking at the long-term effects of the pandemic we've been in. It looks again in the promises as in the action package for children and young people, when one sees that the cold selection points out that something that the particular challenge we are going to face in dealing with long-term effects is about young people and about postponing families. And you're going to have an extra 300 million. In some cases, this may be due to an increase in the number of drug users in the European Union. That's important, and that's right. One has also made greater use of what goes on in green conversion, increasing the green platform, increasing an important amount of hydrogen and continuing to build skills. When we're going to get out of this pandemic here and build the viable jobs, it's the competence that's in all the Northmen out there, which is Norway's foremost trade advantage, along with the natural resources that we can use because of that competence. We see that the challenges when you have a long-term perspective on getting out of covid are for those with the lowest social impact. Therefore, it is important to have a special focus on getting young people back, and not least to have increased the number of jobs for those with the lowest employment rate. Now we're spending even more money on multiple VTA places, so one is up to a total of 12,000. That's good. The agreement we have concluded has also led to some increases in this budget and some cuts. I would like to thank both the government colleague and not least the Progress Party for the cooperation we have managed to achieve. I think we've got an agreement that has a good balance, and where the health is very good. Yes, we have given to measures that have been important for the Progress Party, which I can be both unanimous or disunity in how important priority was, but for example. lowering the shower charge is something we have agreed on that has been an important saying for the Progress Party. Then we have been able to balance it with good, temporary measures that are conducive to both local and national projects that are important to dealing with the situation we are facing. One has ensured a good city-to-country balance when a lower ferry prices of 25 pst. and increases broadband support. I am particularly pleased that we have an additional mental health boost, where one gains the temporary treatment capacity by using the potential of using several private actors to help more people. It's important. Now that I've had a little bit of a summary of what's happened, I'm going to end up with the other one and maybe try to point forward a little bit. It's still like 170,000 are job seekers in our country. Managing the long-term effects of this pandemic is going to be demanding, and it's going to be demanding to take back a practice where we're forced to cover up the extra oil money we've had in the last year. The last thing we need then is some of the experiments proposed by the opposition party, whether it's the Center Party, which is going to experiment with Norway's association and the most important trade agreements we have, while criticising the fact that the trade balance is not good enough, or the Labour Party's active industrial policy, where people in paint shoes are going to choose the winners, not the people who wear the threshy and do the job out there. That's the kind of experiment we're not going to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e762	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e767	Norway has financial problems. All three main areas for our country and the economy go wrong. There is an ever smaller proportion of the population who have work, and the differences between people have increased continuously for eight years, and thirdly, Norway’s deficit in trade with other countries – if we ignore oil and gas – is increasing. The Labour Party believes that it should now be the turn of ordinary people to safety, job, income and well-being. When the representative Storehaug now talks about looking forward, an important point should be: when the policy of the right-wing government has now worked for eight years, it is a very long time. And it would be a wonder if the policy would work in a different way than that the differences continue to increase. Does Storehaug believe in this wonder?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e776	I believe in policies that are going to address the challenges that are going to make sure that we get Norway on the right track, and that will ensure that we are able to achieve the transition that we are forced to do. The plurality we now have has shown a direction for it: A strength of Norwegian industry and the Norwegian ownership – a policy that the Labour Party is opposed to. One has, not least, been able to take targeted measures to ensure that a number of young people who are not working in the labour market and who are now – as the Sandtrøen representative – are prepared to get a job and be able to get a more easily connected to the labour market. Some of what I think is particularly important in the future is the proposal for a job tax deduction that is targeted at young people, who are now out on the phone. This means that instead of young people who go on the AAP, they have a marginal tax of almost 70 pst. When they take their first part-time job, we get to do something about that gap. I think that is a targeted measure to help more people. What the Sandrøen representative does not address is that the number of poor families and poor young people has also increased. The solutions to the Worker's Party's single-use problems and others are the last one that is needed to deal with those challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e785	It is quite right that both the number of poor children and families is increasing, and that the number of young people outside the labour market is increasing. This day, there was a very thought-provoking case in the eastern part of the municipality of Trysil, about something that affects both business and young people. It was a company that needed labour, economic tyres, which is a car workshop, and that wanted to get help to recruit young people. They said the following: we can take in unskilled, we give training. We need people now. I have addressed this with the Minister of Labour, but have not received an answer. This shows that there are constant problems with the policy. It's the system that fails, which makes the differences between people increase, and more young people stay outside. It did not answer the representative at all. Then I would like to ask the representative Storehaug: if we don't talk to ourselves in the main hall, but talk to all the families of children and the young people who are outside, what will the representative Storehaug say to them after eight years?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e792	First of all, I want to say that they are content to ensure that the Christian People's Party crosses the barrier, so that we can get a different plural from what the Sandtrøen representative is working for, so that we avoid cutting in the one-off and cash support, and avoid a plurality that does not give priority to increasing the child's health, as is the direction he stands for. I would also remind them that it is with this plurality that there has been an increase in the number of apprentices year by year and made it more profitable for companies to give apprentices the supply that is there. It is also with this majority that a person has had the political will to be converted when one has followed up several of the measures, such as: The employment selection has pointed out how to get better and more targeted when it comes to helping them get a foot inside. The biggest differences in our country are between those who are inside and those who are out of work. Then we have to have a political plurality that dares to be in that kind of re-priorities, not the solutions of the Labour Party, which, no matter what the question was, is just a little bit more money for an action. A workspace cannot be adopted. A must be capable of standing in re-priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e800	The central party shares the concern of the representative Storehaug for the high unemployment rate that is currently present. I also registered that the representative Storehaug was within the record large trade deficit of mainland Norway that we have today. What you have seen under the pandemic is a worrying trend in unemployment among young people and those who have not completed secondary education. In particular, there is an over-representation of the two groups within the working groups of travel and transport, where at present there are 35 000 unemployed or on leave. The representative Storehaug agrees that from 1 October, a person will double the travel and transport charges for industries that have been particularly hard hit by the pandemic. Why does that make sense? It's fine with a job tax deduction for young people, but what's important is that you take care to get people back to work, for example to the travel industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e807	The difficult job will not be to continue a very high level of oil spending or measures that single actors feel good about out there. The difficult job is to phase out the oil money industry, which has been exceptionally high, and make sure that we have a direction where we get priority of Norwegian ownership and employment of Norwegians, and not least that one in that work manages to have real priorities for the good ones. If one is concerned about Norway's trade deficit, which is by the way better in the first quarter than it has been since 2014, the last one has to do is look over the North Sea and think: the experiment that Britain has been through, with putting its most important trade agreements into play, is an experiment we should try here as well. But that is the policy on which the representative, Mr Gjelsvik, is elected. I can promise that I will do my part in the election campaign so that there is no plurality.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e814	I agree that we need more people who work, and more people who are ready to work. For me, it's also a little personal, because this government has cut the AAP. There's a system that exists for people to get a chance to be good again. I've got more friends who've had a fight. It takes time to learn language again. There are many people who have mental problems, and it takes time to get well again. The government has cut off the scheme to make money for tax cuts for the richest. The people I referred to also need social security, so they've been moved to disability. I have a friend who wants to work. She wants to work, but she has been moved from the AAP to disability. She's supposed to be naked all her life. They have lost the opportunity to get well again. Does the representative think it was a good thing to cut into this arrangement?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e823	In the matter we are dealing with now, on the revised national budget, there is no cut in the AAP. What's going on there is a relaxation for those who need to be clarified and who have not been able to do so because of the coronary apathy. I had several times during this reply that we have had a multiple that has been willing to stand in some of the professional recommendations for how to spend the money better, just to help those who are friends of the representative Wilkinson to get a foot inside, instead of having a connection to the world of work and going on social security. Some of what we've done, for one state budget page, is that we followed up the recommendation from the employment selection. They said that the level of AAPs for particularly young people is considerably higher than for others in the same age group. And then we've reduced it, so that's the same thing as the other one can expect. Then you have used the money on employment measures to help them get a foot inside. There's a kind of re-priority that we're going to have to be more in the future, because the answer can't be just more oil money when we're going to speed Norway after the pandemic.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e830	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e835	I can't imagine a stronger symbolic support for diversity, inclusion and bias than that the Pride flag can also prevail over the national Parliament. Unfortunately, the Presidency has rejected the request made by the Greens. That's why I put on an extra nice dress jacket today. [[The representative is wearing a jacket in Pride colours]] In the whole country, yes, in the whole world, today the struggle is marked for man's right to be himself and to love whomever they want. For that is what Pride is essentially about: fundamental rights and respect for diversity in all of us – our inner and external diversity. In Norway, schools and kindergartens, housing laws, workplaces and individuals are on this mark today. They seek knowledge, celebrate and demonstrate their support for a movement that has changed Norway for the better. The Pride flag today is wading from thousands of flag bars and balconies. They are a celebration of all that the crooked movement has achieved, and an important reminder that the struggle is far from over. Over the past few weeks, we've seen several serious examples. The same flags that symbolize diversity and love are cut down, stolen or burned. Children come to school to experience that the flag they themselves were on to lift has been vandalized. But it fights back. More flags are, of course, purchased. School students paint all the way in the Pride colours, and several Pride events are popping up. Now it's Stortinget's turn to show its support. We in the Green Party have repeatedly asked the Storting to follow up on adopted rights and make the necessary changes in order to achieve as much equivalent a society as possible. I realize that during this great period, which ends today, we will probably not have a majority in favour of a compensation scheme for trans-persons who have been forced to sterilize, ban homotherapy or introduce a third legal gender. However, I hope to bring the hall to another important decision, namely to get the Pride flag to wade from Stortinget. This has been a different year in many ways. The Korona has impressed us all, but some have hit much harder than others. Some have lived with tough restrictions for a long time, and some have lost their jobs. Many have felt that it has been difficult to see family, friends and colleagues only on one screen. Now, fortunately, there's a lot of evidence that it's shining. Infectious rates are steadily decreasing, and in the next few months, large parts of the adult population of Norway will have been vaccinated. This is super good news for business, especially the cultural sector, for the outdoors and for all of us who can meet again over a cup of coffee or an outdoor pill. But even if unemployment goes down as society opens up again, there are still many who are totally or partially unemployed, and there are still many of the companies that are struggling economically. It is therefore important that the aid should not be cut too quickly, and that is why the Greens have proposed to continue the low rate of VAT per year and not to wind up on 31 October, as proposed by the Government. This will benefit the tourism industry in particular. We also propose that VAT be reduced on serving from 25 to 15 pst. and provide a lift to restaurants and outdoors. There's a lot to do again. We also propose that most of today's aid schemes be continued and not terminated on 31 October, as the government proposes. It's not just the outdoor industry that's worn out because of the corona. Farmers have had problems with both sowing and harvesting because the labour force either does not come in or has to be in a quarantine hotel. The Green Party has therefore proposed 200 million. kr extra to the farmers to ensure that everyone can get Norwegian strawberries on the table. Many countries have used the Coronapandemic as an opportunity for green conversion, an opportunity to transform the entire economy into a more climate-friendly direction. Aid to airlines has, for example: have been granted on the assumption that short distances which can be replaced by trains are completed and support has been granted to car manufacturers requiring the development of charging networks and conversion to zero-emission cars and car zones, etc. In Norway, the government chose to give tax reduction to the oil industry, even more than they had requested. Bravo! Now the IEA, as most people have come with it, has launched a report that shows what many of us have said for a long time, namely that there is no room for more new oil and gas after 2021. So here the IEA seems to agree with the Greens' Environment Party that a guided, gradual winding-up is what is needed to achieve the Paris objectives. That is why, in the Greens/EFA, we have proposed to wind up the search for fusion and to reverse the tax package to the oil industry. We also promote a proposal that the government should revise the Energy Communication and base the IEA's assumption that there is no room to open up even more new oil and gas findings or significantly expand existing fields if we are to achieve our climate objectives. As I said earlier, the pandemic can also be seen as an opportunity for example. to change previous habits. We now have a unique opportunity to turn travel habits away from polluting air traffic to more environmentally friendly transport. But the Norwegian train offer is expensive, time-consuming and complicated if you want to travel over longer distances, compared to taking flights. That is why we have asked the government to come back with a proposal for reduced ticket prices on the long-distance trains in Norway and Sweden, while asking the government to look at the possibility of flexible ticket solutions across train companies, for example. through a national inter-rail ticket. The Greens are concerned about the government's lack of supervision of companies building wind turbines in Norwegian nature. We are particularly concerned about the government's inaction in cases where companies carry out major natural interventions before the final permission to continue their work has been given. Oak wind turbines are granted a concession to build wind farm, but the condition for the park was that the wind turbines would be anchored in solid mountains. In retrospect, it turns out that this is not possible, and that the wind turbines have to be attached with huge concrete foundations, which require a much larger natural intervention. This is a work that has now started up despite the fact that this goes beyond the given concession. This matter has been complained to the Ministry of Oil and Energy, which has not yet taken a decision. At the same time, this continues to destroy nature with concrete foundations. The size cannot accept a practice in which companies operate under the premise that it is better to ask for forgiveness than permission. That's why I hope to get a majority to stop the work at Okla wind farm until the case is settled in OED. For once, the Greens want to thank the Minister for Oil and Energy Tina Bru. Thanks to her sincere response to harassment, it has become the focus of a debate that is over-mature, and especially important when we go into a summer of election fighting. I believe that we all agree in this Chamber that netness can help threaten today's democracy, and we all want a good political change of words. But at the same time, we have to do what we can to ensure that the climate of debate is such that we get the focus on the issues we want to discuss, not the people. I am therefore promoting a number of proposals which, hopefully, can contribute to this, and I hope to support them. With that, I take up the Greens' proposals and I would like to thank the Greens for their policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e865	The representative Per Espen Stoknes then addressed the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e872	We have zero vision on the number of traffic fatalities, and we want to minimize the number of hard traffic damage. The Environment Party of the Greens opts for scrapping several sections within the NTP, including: E18 Retvet-Vinterbro, the most recent section of the project E18 Riksgrensen-Vinterbro. Before the Green Party picked out this stretch, the representative drove it himself, and he talked about how many private exits there are between Kråkstad and Retvet, or how many dangerous crossings there are? It's just 30 minutes from the Oslo Centre. How does the Environment Party representative feel that scrapping this route corresponds to the zero vision for road fatalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e877	I thank you for the question. In our green NTP, we're doing a comprehensive review of the transport needs in the future, and then we see that there's a massive translation on new roads, which crowds out resources that are needed to secure road sections. If a reader reads green NTP, one will see that we are stepping up support for everything from racial protection, road safety and improvement of the existing routes, so that they are safer to run on. We also want to make transport greener by establishing 10,000 charging points, so that you can get new, safe cars to drive on new and safer roads. At the same time, we want to relieve road traffic by increasing the use of collective solutions, trains and electric buses, which means that we can reduce traffic loads on accident-prone routes as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e882	Shall I then understand that the representative of the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European This is a distance of 4 kilometers. Regulation plans and everything has been set for a new trajectory. Those who live along that road will have no possibility of a middle part, or two and three fields, so I understand that the Green Party may want to create, to get on those roads safely. It's 80 km/h on the E18. I don't know about a single stretch on the E18 that has 40 km/h, which would be the only possibility for these children to get safely back and forth to their home at least twice a day.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e887	The Green Party has also put forward a proposal for safer access to the environment for children and has prioritised it in budgetary work, for the environment to be safeguarded by road development, so that, as I said, securing and securing existing roads is substantially stepped up by the government. And that definitely includes the distance that the representative here takes up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e893	It surprises me that the Green Party in this case is willing to breed cultivated land and arable forest, instead of moving that trail and making it safe for the children and those who live there. Another question, which I have asked before, concerns property taxes. The Green Party believes that the tax on wealth should be raised and that it does not affect the number of jobs, for example: in agriculture and food production, where the farmer is dependent on the tractor, the mower, the harvester, the thresher, etc. Does the Environmental Party of Greens believe that it is right that the farmer should pay taxes on wealth, or taxes on working capital, on these absolutely necessary aids, and can the Green Party provide a single example of the fact that increasing the tax on working capital will provide a new job?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e900	If the representative checks with international research, inter alia: from the OECD, and also from Norwegian trade unions, there will be no link between increased taxes on wealth and fewer jobs or new jobs. Actually, it's the other way around. These analyses show that by implementing a green tax shift, where one stimulates the resource-productive parts of both agriculture and industry, i.e. one increases the taxes on resource use, while at the same time reducing the tax on income, this will overall increase. This is particularly true of those who are innovative, who are interested in green innovation and in being forward-looking and ahead of the technology shifts that come in any case, in both transport, construction, agriculture — and the most famous sector, but it was gone for me at the last moment here. But that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e905	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e910	From the day one, the Korona crisis has been shattered, and the government's crisis policy has also reinforced those differences even more. In Norway, we have some very rich people who have actually earned even more through the year 2020, well assisted by a government that has made no demands on those who have received large sums of money from the state in crisis support. Now, as we begin to see the end of the pandemic and also the possibility of a new political majority, it is essential that the reopening of society does not become a reprisal of what we have seen in the last year. The government's reopening plan earlier in our dealings solely to wind up the disease protection measures. When they negotiated the revised budget with the Progress Party, they could make the economic recovery plan needed by the people of Norway, but what they are doing in a revised way is going in order to phase out the economic crisis measures, and they cut across the unemployed and left off from 1 October. For a licensed shop worker, this means many thousands of copies less in cash in October than in September. Despite the adjusted estimates in the budget for the number of unemployed both this year and next year, the crisis response for the unemployed is downgraded. It shows a government – with the Progress Party on tow – that does not give priority to those who are hardest hit by the coronary crisis, and not least by closure and permacy. What we need is a fair reopening plan in which we secure the income of people. Red does not accept the removal of crisis measures until the crisis is over, because this means that the bulk of the population shifts costs from community to individual, and also provides people with less advice overnight. We must fight unemployment, not the unemployed, and Red believes that the crisis measures should be made a permanent strengthening of the safety net rather than a resolution as soon as the crisis is over. The fact that the bulk of the population when the pandemic hit us, quickly turned around and strengthened the daily allowance, was a recognition that the previous daily allowance level was too low, it did not guarantee the income of many lay-offs working in low-paid jobs, in a good enough way. The fact that the Progress Party, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, SV, the Green Party and the Red Party went together on this shows that there was a need for a lift. But it won't be any easier to be unemployed in 2023 than in 2021. It's going to be just as crowded in a couple of years, so there's no reason to wind up what was absolutely necessary and acute improvements to the safety net, and that we were together about a year ago here in Stortinget. So our plan is to push to make sure that the improvements are sustained. We also know that child poverty has increased every year as long as Erna Solberg and the bourgeois have ruled our country. We could recently read about how the holiday offers offered by many, the Blue Cross, the Red Cross and others, are completely blown up. They're turning down thousands of families of children, and this is a notified crisis. It shows a Difference Norway that unfortunately hits more and more, not least after a year with a pandemic. I think most people here get a little hurt in the stomach of reading about families with young children who can't afford to go on vacation. We don't want it like that in Norway. Red therefore proposes several immediate measures. We want to fund gift cards that families with poor advice can use on experiences, like going to the tifoli, restaurants or movies. We have a proposal that the majority here in the Chamber, or really all the parties here in the Chamber, should definitely be able to support, so listen carefully after now. The Ministry will now review the application form from those who offer a holiday offer to families with poor advice. We suggest that the Ministry be given a mandate, so that they do not stop the review of the pile once the government's additional appropriations have been used up, but accept as many applications as possible from those who have the capacity to provide a holiday offer quickly, both during the summer and beyond the autumn. This has to happen quickly, it has to happen now. Today, the majority of people have the opportunity to do this, to ensure that families with poor advice do not go to a meeting without a single holiday offer for their children. Therefore, all parties and representatives who vote against the Red's proposal have, in that case, a joint responsibility for the children of families with poor advice who get a worse vacation than they could get, and had earned, this year. We have to get people to work, and we believe that the state has to spend money, while there are many free hands, on things that have to be done anyway. It may be to build the low-emission ferries needed to cut emissions, to convert the farms into leaching feathers, to implement additional measures, to invest in new industries. We need to strengthen our most important emergency centre, which is well-being. We need to employ and train more people in important professions, such as midwives, nurses and teachers, and then we also need to raise wages to ensure recruitment, keep professionals and not least get rid of the pay gap between women and men. Most people here probably remember that the Progress Party promised gold and green forests to both nurses and health professionals earlier today, with current party leader Sylvi Listhaug out in all media. They promised wages and salaries for the country's health workers. We saw in the review that there was nothing but air money. It was empty promises and classic politicians' bluff from Sylvi Listhaug – perhaps not against normal. We want to do something about that in the revised budget, because we see the challenges. We listen to the health workers and to the teachers, who point out that they lose colleagues who quit the profession, do other things, and that recruitment is a problem. It's hugely short-sighted of the Storting to close their eyes and ears for what's going on in well-being, and just clapping nicely for these employees rather than giving them money that's earned. We know that wages are important for both recruiting and retaining professionals in any profession. So Stortinget can say that this is the responsibility of the parties, pointing to the parties and then watching their hands. It's completely possible. But the employers we're talking about here are the municipalities, through the KS, it's the Municipality of Oslo, it's Specter, there's politicians on that side of the table. Yes, they will negotiate the formation of wages freely, but if there is no money in the pot to negotiate, there will be no pay gap for health professionals, nurses or teachers. Our proposal is not a political dictate of pay, but to make money available for negotiation between the parties, in line with what came from NOU 2008:6 on equal pay. Without making money available, it just becomes like Listhaug's arrangement: empty promises, air money, clean bluffs. We need to get money on the table, and then the Storting must make it available, and then the parties can freely negotiate on how to distribute that money. Without it, there will be only talk, whether it be the Advance Party, the Workers' Party or others who promise gold and green forests to those who have stood in front through the pandemic for one year, who need more colleagues, new colleagues and to keep colleagues. Well, applause is fine, but it costs nothing. Helping measures cost. The size should grant that money. Finally, we have to distribute the coronary bill fairly. Until now, workers have taken the main bill, fallen into income as permite, while food barons and house sharks have received hundreds of millions of dollars in government support. It has even cut taxes, wealth taxes, like a so-called corona measure, and it is mildly quite alarming. There is something fundamental when both the stock exchange and child poverty are increasing in pace. We need to increase the tax on dividends, on wealth and on corporate profits and ensure that the country's wealthiest pays a greater share of the crisis bill. With that, I take up Red's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e935	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e942	The EEA Agreement ensures Norwegian enterprises access on a European home market of 500 million customers and is essential for Norwegian jobs and well-being. Therefore, there is a record of the termination of the contract, and therefore the Right guarantor is the one to pass it. On the other hand, the Workers' Party says that they are in favour, but their closest allies in the three-span SV, the Center Party and Red will spite the people's will and scrap of the EEA. This uncertainty concerns Norwegian business, so I want to give the representative an opportunity to reassure us, preferably with a clear yes or no: if Red comes to the tip, will one accept that the Workers' Party guarantees and protects about the EEA Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e949	I can guarantee that the Red's programme is solid, and that the Red morning, dinner and evening – preferably at night as well – will work to replace the EEA agreement with a trade agreement that restores our sovereignty and independence, and that we are not subject to the bureaucracy in Brussels. We are going to push a new government with all the strength we get in the elections, to stand up to the EU, to ensure that we protect Norwegian working life against the manpower industry, against the free flow of the EEA Agreement, against social dumping and not least to ensure the right of self-determination of natural resources and over our power, and that the EU is far from what the Norwegian Grand Duchy should rule over. I can guarantee that the stronger Red will be in the autumn's elections, the more force we will force a new government to stand up to Brussels over today's subjection to the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e954	We note that Red will sweep aside the so-called EEA guarantee of the Workers' Party, and then it is safest to vote Right. But yesterday I read a thriller of a book, and it was called the Red's principal program. There you could read about a party that says that they base their social view on Marxism, better known as communism. Especially exciting was the chapter on the revolution that had to come. In fact, the new version has added the word democratic, whatever democratic revolution should mean. I have no expectation that the author will reveal the discovery of the revolution, because it can soon be expensive, so I think that revolution we're canceling right away. But I have to ask, because in the chapter on revolution it says that a new governing body should be set up in Norway, so very concretely: What governing body will Red have?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e963	We have enough clear wording to say that we want to maintain parliamentary democracy. We are even a party that is fighting for more democracy, often against the Right and the Workers' Party's attempts at secrecy and also at narrowing down the Government's control authority, at least here in Stortinget – and also in municipal governments and county councils around the country. I would say that Red both in practice and in theory is a party in favour of more democracy and more power to elected bodies. With a socialist society, that is, with a real rule of the people over the economy, I think there will be a need for new ways to govern the economy, for example. the possibility of choosing the management of enterprises democratically. If you are authoritative enough to choose the leadership of our country, you should also be able to choose the management of the companies, to remove the last remainder of feudalism in our society, where power and privileges are inherited, which is, of course, the core of capitalism as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e970	I think the representative should be a little more specific. When there are so many exciting chapters on revolution in this principal programme, it would have been interesting for the voters to hear a little bit more about how this revolution is going to be carried out. I think it was a little thin on which new governing body will be set up in any negotiation with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e975	It's clear that it's kind of one thing to have principles, something else is to be a soothsayer. I'm not going to try to throw myself up to be able to predict exactly the future, but it's clear that we have a very solid and rooted principle that we also want to have democracy, a government of the people, over the economy. We know that the principle today is that the value creation is social. It is done by creating the values of enterprises and also of the public sector, i.e. workers. A lot of the inputs have been paid and funded by the community, that is, what ensures that you can create values, infrastructure like roads, tunnels, bridges, a health care system that makes you healthy if you get sick, that we train people who are useful to businesses. Those who acquire the value, it happens on very few private hands. Getting a social distribution of values is at the heart of this, because it is the society that has created wealth, and then society should also be given the wealth.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e981	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e986	When Norway was shut down last year, the first rainbow drawings showed up with the message: everything will be fine. None of us then knew the extent of what had hit us, and how long that would be. But we had faith that we would get through. The increase in unemployment was without parallels in modern times, and there was enormous uncertainty. The corona pandemic led to the strongest setback in the Norwegian economy since the war. A few years later, it seems that we in Norway have managed well through the crisis. Joint efforts and stringent measures for the protection of infectious diseases have produced results. Extensive vaccination appears to control the pandemic in the near future. Value creation is approaching the level before the pandemic. Many people have come back to work, and I record clear, positive signals from the business community. The NHO economic survey suggests significant business optimism. It is reported that negative developments in the trade and service industries have reversed. Earlier this month, the SSB reported that the surplus on the goods and services balance sheet in the first quarter of 2021 was the highest since 2014 and exports from the mainland industry increased by 26 pst. from May to May this year. Most likely we will be able to continue the gradual reopening of society in the next few weeks and months. Then the growth in the Norwegian economy is likely to speed up, and even more of the lay-offs will come back to work. But we still have a long way ahead. Too many people are out of work. The uncertainty is significant. New virus variants, vaccine delivery challenges and the infection situation in other countries may delay the path out of the pandemic and local infectious measures may still be required in areas with the largest outbreaks. Throughout the crisis, the government has been concerned that the pandemic will not cause more people to run out of work permanently. We have implemented measures for inclusion, competence building and job creation. The measures are reinforced in the revised national budget. It is a pleasure that unemployment is now falling rapidly across the country and across all industries. Compared to last year's peak of unemployment on 7 April, there are now 260,000 fewer jobseekers at Nav. But even if it goes the right way, there are still more than 171,000 jobseekers. There's too many of them. The crisis has gone awry. Many companies have kept the activity up, but those who live by us meeting are hard hit. Many people have a safe job to go to, others have been let off or free. Government and growth together have put in place comprehensive measures to help people and businesses through the crisis. The government has also strengthened the efforts of vulnerable groups, who are hard hit, and students and students, who have lost valuable time in school and in studies. We have to do what we can to limit the long-term negative effects of the pandemic. We've also focused on saving jobs by helping viable businesses through the pandemic. The financial measures put in place have given the most support to those who have been hit hardest and lost the most. Almost 60 pst. the aid granted under the business compensation scheme and the compensation scheme has gone to enterprises with up to 50 employees. The loan guarantee scheme has 75 pst. by the volume of loans granted to small and medium-sized enterprises. We have adjusted the measures along the way in order to adapt them to changes in disease protection measures and the development of the economy. When measures to protect infection are now being reduced, we need to return to a normal and sustainable situation, including in the case of public support schemes. Otherwise, we're at risk of slowing down the necessary conversion and activity. I am therefore pleased that the government is now receiving support to dismantle the arrangements. I notice that the IMF believes that the government through its policy has succeeded in limiting the infection and the economic downturn. The OECD also points out that Norway has relatively low rates of infection and a low number of deaths, while economic activity has been higher than in many other countries. We have been in this crisis together. Now we're going to get out of it together. The government’s strategy for Norway’s way out of the crisis is about how to facilitate a Norway that creates more and includes more. It is about getting people back to work and preventing those with weak links to the labour market from staying outside permanently, facilitating new change and growth in private enterprises, providing vulnerable groups with the help they need, building the necessary skills for tomorrow's working life, facilitating green transition and being an important driver of international solutions and global challenges. Both for individuals and for the country, it is important that as much work is done as possible. The way out of the crisis, unemployment has to go down further. Vulnerable groups such as the long-term unemployed, young people and people with a migrant background are particularly priorities for participation in interventions. Nav has also received significant increases in appropriations to follow up on the outbound and unemployed. In order to encourage employers to return to work on leave, the government has relaunched the compensation scheme. This gives companies greater flexibility. The government also reinforces the efforts of more people to complete high school and to increase the skills they need in working life. It also applies to the persons on leave and to the persons on leave. Good business environment and a tax system that provides incentives for value creation and work are central to the success of change and growth. In total, taxes and charges are reduced by about 35 billion. kr. It makes the economy more growthable. This year, too, the government has prioritised lower taxes on income and further dwindling taxes on working capital in order to facilitate strong, diverse Norwegian ownership. For small and newly established companies, options can be a good tool for attracting and retaining skilled employees. For this reason, the government has, at the hearing, sent a proposal for a system of simpler, more favourable and more predictable taxation. The number of start-ups has shown a happy development during the pandemic. In the first quarter of this year, more than 20,000 new enterprises were established. That's the highest figure in any quarter since SSB started its measurements in 2008. Obviously, that means something. These are jobs for people who, hopefully, can become jobs for even more. Never before have listed companies collected as much capital as in 2020, and the number of listings has been very high in the last 18 months. It's a pleasure. Future value creation must be based both on the transformation of existing businesses and on the start-up and growth of new enterprises. This will require both access to capital and other framework conditions to enable this to happen. It has been right and necessary to implement strong economic measures to provide people with security and to help firms in crisis through the pandemic. The option would be more bankrupt and more unemployed. Just as political Norway has been put to the test during the crisis, we will now be measured by our ability to take Norway well out of the crisis. When the crisis is behind us, we also need to phase out the crisis measures and bring down the use of money to allow for the creation of value in the private sector, to ensure the sustainability of our welfare society and to ensure the ability to deal with new crises when they arrive. Finally, let me thank the entire Finance Committee and the Stortinge for the quick and good treatment of crisis response and good cooperation on good solutions. A special thank you to the Advance Party, who has made a lot of compromises after the Progress Party went out of government, but also for a very good cooperation in government. I look forward to that cooperation continuing in the next period.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1022	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1027	I would like to thank the Minister of Finance for his cooperation when it has been necessary for the country that we also cooperate across positions and opposition. So there's still some things where there's disagreement between our party. As I know the Minister of Finance, he's busy listening to the businesses and their needs, and that's important. He has been particularly busy with the issue of property taxes. In this Chamber and in other debates he has often shown to the owners he has met and who have had the same view of the wealth tax as he himself. But a few days ago, we could hear the founder of daily literature Karl Munthe-Kaas in Oda say to the NRK that the wealth tax is absolutely necessary if one is to be redistributed, and he was clear that the wealth tax is not a competitive disadvantage for Norwegian entrepreneurs or business owners, because the value of being a society with small differences is so great. What I want to know is, is why the Minister of Finance, who is so busy listening to corporate owners, won't listen to a business owner like Karl Munthe-Kaas.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1036	I also often listen to him, but I think it is a bad suggestion that owners of Norwegian companies have to take out large dividends and then sell into their business in order to finance the property tax. That's a bad solution. For those of us who are concerned that we should have strong and diverse Norwegian ownership, it is important that we also continue to reduce the tax on working capital. The eye-catching fact is that the Workers' Party provides a guarantee to non-resident owners that they will not receive a higher tax, and at the same time it promises that Norwegian private owners in the countryside and the city will receive a higher tax. Also in the revised national budget, the Workers' Party increases the tax on working capital on the way out of the crisis. It's a bad signal to everyone who's on the verge of saving Norwegian jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1043	There is no reason for concern attached to the Workers' Party's tax arrangements. We're actually giving companies care by saying that one shouldn't make changes to corporate tax, and we're securing our country's distribution. Right can't deliver on any of the pieces, because they don't have a clear tax charge, and they don't contribute to distribution. So we know that only two out of five small and medium-sized enterprises in Norway pay property taxes. The vast majority of these do not experience liquidity problems either, and the small minority that may be involved have the possibility of asking for deferred payment, which is very few. The central question here is, when the Minister of Finance is so strongly involved, and he uses such strong words: who really is the Minister of Finance, he threatens to save through a cut in the taxes on wealth, and what evidence does he have of exactly this?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1050	I just want to tackle another issue that the representative raised first, and that was that the Right does not contribute to distribution. During this period, we have increased the amount of child benefit for the smallest children by DKK 8 200 per year – for the smallest children. When the Christian People's Party got this through in 2019, it was the first increase of 20 years. It was SV's ultimatum to support any Labour Party government in 2017. It's a bourgeois government that's delivered on it. Now eight out of ten are completing high school. It may be the most important measure for social cohesion in the coming years. For business there is not one measure that is crucial. That's the sum of framework conditions. It's about the tax on working capital, of course it does. It's about investing in skills, it's about transport, it's about the competitiveness of Norwegian companies. Following this crisis, Norwegian companies have strengthened their competitiveness. Promises good for the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1059	The finance minister didn't answer my question. He'd rather talk about distribution. It's okay. Let's talk about distribution. We see that the pandemic has led some to become ugly, while others to bed. Right will cut into what's popularly called working capital, but where we see that about half of the cut, that's 3 billion. kr, goes to property, i.e. not to equipment and machines, which they often pull out. There is something Right wants to do despite the fact that Norway Bank in its latest monetary policy report writes that the prices of commercial property have increased marked by the corona pandemic. For commercial property, the sales prices are no 11 pst. higher than before the pandemic. And then we know that it's not possible to document a relationship between a cut in wealth taxes and creating jobs, but it's possible to document a huge growth in just those who are going to get tax cuts from the Right in the future. What I should like to know, is why Right thinks that right now is the right historical moment to give big tax cuts, which with surgical precision hits those who have won the most on the pandemic.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1068	It's not just right now. We have systematically reduced the tax on Norwegian private ownership over the last eight years, and we intend to continue doing so. It is not that we sit in government offices and divide Norwegian business into what we think is good, and what we don't think is so good. We can't create a tax system that way. We can't distinguish between industries – that some will get reduced taxes on working capital, while others will not get it. We believe that Norwegian private ownership is important. Yes, we have a strong state in Norway. The State is actively contributing to business, and it will continue to do so with a civil government as well. But we also need a balance in this. We can't just lean on the state. We need the jobs, we need the diverse ownership across Norway, in rural and urban areas, people investing their own money in Norwegian jobs. Then the answer is not to increase the tax on Norwegian ownership on the way out of the crisis. No, we have to keep stepping it down.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1075	No one has suggested that a distinction be made between different industries, so it is difficult to understand what the Minister of Finance really thinks about it. The Worker's Party challenges Right is that they have chosen a tax scheme that, with surgical precision, hits those who already have the most money. They're going to carry out a cut in the property tax, which means almost 7 billion. Total NOK, where 6 of the 7 billion goes to the 10 pst. Richest. And they do it at a time when we already see that what was an underlying trend towards increasing differences has been further enhanced through the coronary apex. This would be the right time to prioritize both work, getting more people into work, well-being – which is there for you no matter where you live, or the size of your wallet – and a distorting tax that is fair, and as business owners, such as business owners. Karl Munthe-Kaas, calling. I would like to hear what the Minister of Finance would say to business owners like Karl Munthe-Kaas.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1085	I already did that in the answer to the first line. For income differences in Norway, they are more evenly distributed than in most countries. We're going to be glad that's a value we're going to take care of. But there has been a slightly increasing difference. It hasn't come in the last eight years, it's been in the last 30 years, and in the last 30 years, the Labour Party hasn't been out of government offices. This has been a trend over 30 years, but still there are among the smallest differences. You talk about surgical precision. What the Workers' Party is doing is, with surgical precision, hitting the Norwegian private ownership. If we go back in the history of the Workers' Party, and we should probably not go back any further than when the Workers' Party was last in government, there was a Minister of Industry who actually called for the removal of the tax on working capital, because it was seen to be something that affected Norwegian industry and Norwegian private ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1094	Let me first say thank you for the cooperation of the Minister of Finance, on major and important issues in a demanding time. Cooperation can be even better in some areas, including: in the case of stopping or at least limiting the commercial leakage to Sweden. I have nothing against Swedes, but I am very concerned about securing Norwegian jobs both in industry and in the trade in goods. We know that in the last year, due to the fact that the border has been completely closed, many thousands of new jobs have been created, and the state's tax revenue has increased by about a quarter. 12 B.C.E. kr. It shows the potential. I am interested in recording what is in Højre’s new programme: ‘reducing excise duties on certain goods placed on the market’. Then my question is to the Minister of Finance, also to the Vice-President of the Right: will it be that the Progress Party will also have to pull this load in the next period to secure Norwegian jobs, or can we expect the Right to play a more active role in the important issues?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1101	I may not want to say that the Progress Party alone is going in the brink of saving Norwegian jobs, but the Progress Party has gone in the brink of lowering the charges on goods exposed to border trade. There's no doubt about it. It is the Progress Party that got through to removing the chocolate tax, and it is the Progress Party that has now been passed to remove the tax on non-alcoholic beverages. It is an impact on the Progress Party that will certainly have positive consequences. But there are also other things that matter to the border trade – the level of costs, customs duties on goods, the range of goods. There are more factors that matter to border trade than taxes. I do not underestimate the importance of charges, but there are other matters that matter. It is not that by reducing these charges, we eliminate the border trade problem. It'll still be there. However, the Progress Party has had a significant impact on these two charges and also on others in the budget for the current year.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1108	I thank you for the answer and the confirmation that the Progress Party has achieved something that is important in order to try to limit the trade leakage to Sweden in the short term. Then there are also some other factors, as the Minister of Finance points out, and it requires a longer-term work. However, in the short term, tax reductions will be important. I just think I'll finish by saying, a little rewritten, what the representative Martin Kolberg likes to say: the fight continues. This time for reduced charges.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1115	I notice that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1120	The fight continues for lower fees, concluded with Hans Andreas Limi, but from 1 October, the Norwegian Travel Life Fees will be increased from 6 to 12 p.m. They are to be doubled, and it is the Progress Party, the Right, the Left and the Christian People's Party who are voting through this increase in fees and are now confirming it. We believe that this is extremely unwise. We see how many thousands of travel businesses we have around the country, and how many are employed there. There are 150 000 to 200000 employed in Norwegian travel. In addition, we have a large and heavy transport industry that has tough competitive conditions and is in a difficult situation. When we know what a tough season, the tough years, that Norwegian travel industry has been through, what is the reason that 1 October is the right time to increase VAT for Norwegian travel, from 6 to 12 pst. ?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1125	For all parties in the Stortinget other than the Centerpartie, low VAT was a crisis response. It was a crisis response. For the Center Party it is a struggle that continues because you believe that the VAT should be lower. VAT is not a measure for the company, it is the consumer who pays the VAT. When we think it's right to phase this out from 1 October, it's because we're looking at the outlook for the Norwegian economy. The Executive Director of Works also says that negative developments in the commercial and service industries have reversed. Yesterday’s report from Norway’s Bank shows that by 2022 unemployment will be back at low levels. They see a stronger growth than they did before, and have therefore also announced more interest rate increases. Yes, there are still some who are struggling, but we now see that it goes the right way. People come back to work, and the activity of the economy gets up. It is then right to liquidate crisis measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1132	VAT on travel and transport was introduced in the first package of measures. It was one of the very last steps that came in, and we managed to get it from 12 to 6 pst. It has been an unbureaucratic and simple system. It is true, as the Council of State Sanner says, that the Central Party has always opposed the increase in VAT from 8 to 12 p.m., which the Right and Advance Party have carried out with the support of the Christian People's Party and the Left. When you look at the Norwegian tourism industry now: we had a clear consultation call from the NHO Travel Life. Their first recording was that at least we have to continue low travel costs until 1 January, because the situation is very demanding. I understand that for the Council of State Sanner, it is a goal to use the VAT system actively and get more revenue – this is a warning that he wants to move on from 12 p.m. and at an even higher rate in Norwegian travel life moms, e.g. up to 15 pst. ?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1139	We have not proposed an even higher VAT rate. Now, just this hour, I have put down a new tax and tax sample, which is also going to look at the VAT system. They shall deliver their setting at the end of 2022. It is important that we now also think about how to phase out aid schemes on the way out of the crisis. Norwegian policy is going to be measured by our ability to get Norway out of the crisis and our ability to also reduce oil money use. It is important for future generations, the growth power of the Norwegian economy and for the Storting and Government to also have economic muscles to cope with the next crisis when it comes. It's perhaps the hardest job we're facing right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1146	I have to say, I think it's a little fresh from the Council of State to end with a call to reduce the use of oil and the expenditure of the Norwegian economy when the last day's government and the majority here at Stortinget do, is to increase the permanent expenditure and increase the use of oil money in that budget agreement and the budget we are discussing today. It is quite true that Sanner has been in the past in his answers, that differences in Norway have increased over a longer period of time. But they've shot speed under today's government. The number of young people growing up in poor families has increased rapidly during today's government. Where the red-green government was able to slow down the differential growth, today's government has really thrown gasoline at the stake through targeted tax cuts. When we see the consequences of the increased inequalities, that people are hanging again – why is it so little important for today’s government to combat the growth of growing inequality? Why can't the government say that the differences are going down?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1155	It is important to ensure that we have a country with small differences. I Googled for fun back to 2017 to see what was SV's main requirement to support any Gahr Store-regiering. Then SV had as ultimatum that the child's fear had to rise. It was to combat differences and inequality. It was a bourgeois government that increased child welfare for the first time in 20 years, on the demand of the Christian People's Party. The child's pension is $8200 more per year for the smallest children. I think it means a lot to families who have bad advice. We've increased the one-time support. It also means a lot to many of those who can afford the worst. And not least, we have now increased the number and proportion of high school graduates; young people with immigrant backgrounds and all young people gathered are now up to eight out of ten. Maybe that's one of the most important things we do to preserve a society of small differences.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1165	As early as 2018, Sanner admitted that the Kindergarten Act was out of date, because the large commercial chains dominated the sector, and profitability has been three times as high in kindergartens as on the stock exchange. However, in the budget agreement, the commercial kindergartens and the Progress Party are being implemented in order to ensure these welfare professionals increased State capital grants and continued access to favourable mortgages. Recently, the nursery committee came up with its proposals. They want to shift power from groups to municipalities, and that grants and parental payments actually benefit children in kindergarten, not commercial investors. What does Sanner think about the government's legacy when they've had eight years in government without having done anything about the commercial groups' grip on and growth in the kindergarten sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1174	I have noticed that in all debates about kindergartens, the representative Moxnes talks about groups, form of organisation and ownership, not about the children. I think what matters most to families and children is that they have good kindergartens. We have ensured good arrangements for families with the worst advice – free core time and lower parental pay in kindergartens and also in the SFO. So it's right that we've extended to have the capital grant. This is not what matters to the large groups. It means something to the small, independent private kindergartens. And there's a difference between how well these kindergartens are going. Some of the groups are doing very well, while some of the smaller private kindergartens are struggling. That's why we thought it was also right to extend the increased capital grant by 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1183	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1188	We can be on our way out of the pandemic in Norway. There is still a need for a fair crisis policy for companies and workers affected, but we can raise our eyes and see what Norway needs for policies to address and meet the major challenges of the 2020s: getting more people in work, increasing exports, improving the health of safe people and caring for the elderly, and pursuing a fair climate policy that cuts emissions and creates jobs. The Labour Party says clearly from now on: after eight years of right-wing policy that increases the differences, where they have determined the most important things and the big money, we now need a policy that puts ordinary people first. That's fair. It is a Norway with small differences and high trust that is best equipped to solve the problems and provide all opportunities. A revised budget is just that, an audit, but the direction in our budget is another, and the rate is more fair. We're proposing a bet on safe work for everyone at 2.8 billion. kr. Working for everyone is job number one and key to a society with less differences and more security in everyday life for ordinary people. We propose 5,000 more sites for action, additional funds to increase the number of jobs for young people and students in particularly coronated areas, additional follow-up of outsourced and unemployed, nearly half a billion for activity-creating measures in municipalities and county municipalities, substantial support for hard hit enterprises and investment funds for new jobs. Ensuring Norwegian jobs in the future goes hand in hand with a climate policy that cuts emissions and creates jobs. That is why the Labour Party also prioritises a green industrial package of 1.2 billion. kr. We're adding Statkraft capital to develop a basic hydrogen infrastructure. We use funds to investigate and strategy for carbon capture and storage at Norwegian incineration plants. We grant money for mineral exploration and for an application-based programme for wood recycling for circular production in industry. We set aside money for the further development of zero emissions in the process industry. We're pointing out one direction. It facilitates more secure, sustainable jobs that deliver our most important markets more and more demand. That is why our climate policy and our more active and green industrial policy go hand in hand, and it is seen in our revised budget for 2021. In our budget, we are betting on better welfare services near where people live. Once again, the course is different: more security in the everyday lives of ordinary people and better well-being – rather than privatisation, centralisation and tax cuts to them with the most from before. We're proposing welfare increases of a total of $2.6 billion. kr, with better room for action for municipalities, cheaper kindergarten and free SFO for first class. We are betting on practical training courses with vocational training initiatives, the guarantee of apprenticeships, more specialised school places and places of study and the means to cover lost learning in the pandemic. We allocate more money to our common health and care service. We expand the public dental service for young adults, strengthen public hospitals and allocate $170 million. to mental health rather than the budget of the conciliators. We're increasing the staff in the school health service, and we're funding 100 million. kr to initiate a rescue operation for the fixed medical device, which has been cancelled by the right-hand government. It increases the safety of everyday life after a year of pandemic and closure, where more people need community help to clean up life and health. Even in a time of crisis, the right-wing government has cut the wealth tax of those who have the most from before. The government has given the country's 1,000 richest a tax gift of $30 million each just under the pandemic. We're turning the fraction. We pay for work and well-being for ordinary people by making the tax system fairer. Those with the greatest wealth can and should contribute more. It's increasing the tax on large assets, not on corporations. We keep the corporate tax at the same level. Our budget reduces financial inequality while, through a more redistributive tax system, we pay for measures that get unemployed and young people into work, and health services and education for ordinary people. Why? Well, because it's necessary -- not least on the way out of a pandemic, where work, well-being and fair climate policy are even more important in people's lives -- and because it's fair. That's how we give Norway a new and more solidarity course.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1216	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1221	The representative Gahr Støre’s contributions were a review of increased expenditure and re-priorities. Yesterday, the representative Gahr Støre, who has an ambition to become Prime Minister, also launched his 100-day plan in 40 points. It's got a price tag. It is difficult to set that price tag, but I have gone through the 40 measures, and for 10 of them, the increase in public expenditure is 8.4 billion. kr. This is before we start talking about free dental care for young people, the reversal of the railway reform, more money for municipalities, green initiatives, etc. The representative Gahr Støre has also said that he should limit the tax increase somewhat. The question is then: When will the representative Gahr Støre present its 40-point plan for increased value creation in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1228	The main point of the 40 points for 100 days is to get more involved, measures to help small and medium-sized enterprises, measures to get a boost on exports. And as the Labour Party always does: we see efforts for work in the context of a serious working life, and we will start working to make our working life serious, get a Norway model. The working party shall provide responsible budgets. We can finance what we propose. We've referred to re-priorities in the alternative budget for 2021, and we're showing it in the revised budget, and we're re-prioritising to clear up space. That's what we're going to start in 100 days. Something becomes effective immediately, and something else is the beginning of a work we're going to do if we get a majority in a government period. I am pleased that the representative of Greece has read the plan, and as I said, between a quarter and half of the points are directly related to work and value creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1237	That's possible, but of the 40 points I have in front of me here, I've managed to find three or four points that will contribute to increased value creation if you succeed, because there are investigations and commissions that need to assess different measures to increase, for example. green value creation, or the green value shift. It's all right, but it's not really keeping the voters a little too fooled to say that in 100 days you have to increase the cost by maybe 15-20 billion. kr without showing any kind of containment and without showing any kind of action that will actually contribute to value creation? The representative Gahr Støre is very busy talking about the wealth tax and money to the rich. We are busy talking about Norwegian ownership, developing value creation, strengthening Norwegian business. We find this very little in the Labour Party's proposal. If he's going to bring his comrades in Red, the Environmental Party of Greens and SV, I'm really worried about the development.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1244	There's no need to worry. That's what the representative said, all right. It is not surprising that the Right reads the basis for value creation in a different way from the Workers' Party. Right cutters in the wealth tax, which goes to the richest, without ever being able to document the effect. Erna Solberg says it's to help businesses in the districts, and half of the cuts go to Oslo, Bærum and Asker. So these are the districts of Norway: Bærum and Asker. There's a place between where the representative of Helleland lives, and where I live in Oslo. There are misguided policies. In our programme, we focus on human competence. We show direction for a professional lift, for a trade union lift. This is 40 points to get started. Then I can recommend the representative on the way into the summer vacation to read the Work Party's excellent program. That's on many more points. It's holistic, and it shows the direction for what we want to accomplish if we get a majority in the election.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1255	The Labour Party is trying to create a story that everyone else is responsible for increasing differences in Norway. The truth is that the increase in child poverty is largely due to asylum immigration. The Progress Party has for many decades warned against this, and there have been two Brochmann committees that have also demonstrated the challenge this poses for the welfare model. It is simply incomprehensible to look at the difference between the Labour Party in Norway and the sister party Social Democracy in Denmark. While the Workers' Party still has its head in the sand here, we really see that the Social Democracy in Denmark has awakened. In the 100-day plan presented yesterday by the representative Gahr Støre, immigration and integration were not mentioned in a single word. We have understood that the representative, after inviting 10,000 refugees in 2015, and there were over 30,000, refuses to talk about immigration, but I will ask: why does the Workers' Party not talk about the elephant in space, immigration, as one of the drivers of increasing child poverty in Norway and thus increase inequality?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1264	Here is the representative who has been the policy guarantor for the last eight years, who has been responsible for the policy on both immigration, integration and quota refugees and what is, so she gets the answers. Our 100-day programme is for Norway as a whole. No matter what the background, we're going to bet that you get a safe kindergarten, that you get an SFO space you can pay for. It's important for the social distribution. Most of those with low incomes benefit, and there are many immigrant families. Bet on a level of competence and getting people to work -- we don't distinguish between people when we bet in this way. Then I can also recommend that the representative, on the way into the summer holidays, read our programme, which has good formulations for a humane, consistent immigration and asylum policy that is aimed at helping those who come to Norway in a good way – and otherwise maintains good rules and order at Norwegian borders.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1274	By 2030 we will cut Norwegian emissions by at least 50 pst. – and up to 55 pst. It has been notified to the UN. Many of those emission cuts will be made within industry, i.e. within the quota sector, but we also have a commitment to cut emissions in the non-quota sector, transport, agriculture, land use, waste, by at least 40 pst. in the agreement that is now in place, and it will certainly be strengthened once the EU has strengthened its objective. In the Worker Party's plan for the first 100 days, there is a proposal to increase commuter deductions, to protect petrol and diesel from price increases, to introduce VAT on electric cars. A few weeks ago, the Workers' Party also removed the ban on the cultivation of ants. How will the representative Gahr Støre step up efforts in the non-quota sector to achieve those objectives when all the proposals weaken the effort?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1281	First of all, it's wrong. Here are measures to get an enhanced climate effort from day one, creating jobs, cutting emissions. The representative stands as a representative of a majority who now makes us – we can look at the numbers – stand on the ground resting. Emissions have not fallen. We've lost years. The Labour Party has provided a budget for how we can achieve our climate goals. They are improved from one year to another. I can take one example – agriculture: the government was waiting and waiting to engage agriculture in a dialogue on how we step by step could bring down emissions. Our actions are about a fair climate policy. It was given a very good answer earlier today when it was about this with electric cars. The way to achieve that goal is that regardless of where you live in the country, you should be able to drive and charge your car. That's why we say that those who want to buy the most expensive electric cars would have to do it, but the top of that price they get to pay for themselves. You can afford that if you buy such an expensive car. The money we're saving, we're using to build charging infrastructure across the country. It is an example of a fair climate policy that the representative can take with him when he is also going to achieve the objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1288	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1293	The main short-term objective of the right is to take Norway safely out of the corona crisis. Now we've thrown the mouthbands in Stortinget. We still have to wash the pulpit, but we're on our way out. We need to ensure good infectious disease protection and good health care treatment. At the same time, we're going to get the activity up and get people back to work. We're going to create more and include more. I would like to thank our government partners and in particular the Progress Party for agreeing on the main lines of revision. The revised budget shall contribute to the removal of Norway from the crisis. We're gonna get people to work. We're going to get the time off down and include more in the working life. We have to avoid that those who became unemployed during the coronary crisis stay standing outside, and we are lucky to see positive signs now. There is a need to facilitate particularly hard hit industries, such as tourism, nightlife and transport, and to address those with low education, young people and immigrants. We need a new growth in private businesses. We will contribute to new growth, transformation and innovation and facilitate the creation of more jobs across the country. We have to get out of the crisis together. We must take extra good care of those who have had the most difficult through the crisis. We need to make extra efforts for the lonely elderly, to care for children exposed to violence and abuse, to support children and young people with mental health challenges, to promote integration and close knowledge gaps in education. We need to build skills. We will ensure that more people complete high school — now we see a very positive development — and that more people get the skills that tomorrow’s work and business needs. It also applies to those who have been licensed or unemployed as a result of the pandemic. We're going to have a green conversion. We're going to make it easier for business to create even more green jobs and a more sustainable future on the way out of the crisis. We need to have enhanced international cooperation. We must continue Norway's international commitment, particularly in the fields of vaccines, trade, development, climate and preparedness. Tomorrow’s challenges need to be addressed in cooperation with other countries. It's maybe one of the toughest lessons from the coronary ape anemia -- that this is what we're dealing with all around the globe. Over seven years, taxes and levies have been cut by over 34 billion. kr. We've cut taxes so that ordinary families get more to walk with, and companies can grow and invest. At the same time, we've changed the charging system, so it'll be more profitable to cut emissions. For the government, it is a goal in itself that families and individuals should be left with more of their own income. A normal family will pay about NOK 14 000 less in taxes in 2021 than they would if the rules for 2013 were passed on, and have totaled NOK 66 000 more of their own money. It contributes to more well-being and to the saving of more people. Lower taxes on the next penny also make it more profitable to work more. The government bases its economic policy on the need to create values before they can be shared. That is why we have introduced a number of tax cuts that facilitate increased value creation across the country. We have reduced corporate tax, so that it is as profitable to create jobs in Norway as it is with our trading partners. The property tax drains Norwegian owners of enterprises for capital, so that they have less left to invest in jobs. It makes it less profitable to save and invest for Norwegian owners and helps to give foreign owners a competitive advantage. The government has strengthened Norwegian ownership by reducing the rate and introducing a discount for working capital. We've also increased the bottom subtraction. Norway is a country with large natural resources. We will facilitate sustainable development that creates jobs across the country. Conversion of the rent tax on hydropower into a cash flow tax will provide significant liquidity to the power industry and facilitate profitable investments in renewable energy in the future. The government also has an ambitious climate policy. In recent years, we've increased climate-related charges by 6.7 billion. NOK, so that it costs more to be contaminated, while reducing the overall tax burden. This policy works: In 2019, Norwegian emissions were the lowest in 27 years. We've also made it more profitable to choose environmentally friendly. While we have cut taxes and taxes, there has been more well-being, more hands in the health care sector and more policemen in the streets. There's a lot of one that could mention at the end of a crash session. Over two major periods of time, the four parties to the Right, the Progress Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party have shown that we have managed to reach an agreement on the most important, namely the budgets. It hasn't always been easy, but we've done it, and now we're ready to bet for a new period.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1329	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1334	In many areas, the right is not familiar. Linda Hofstad Helleland, as the representative of Greece knows very well, led the Programme Committee and stated that ‘it is a more light blue Right’. Former rapporteur for the Right in Sykkylven, Petter Lyshol, has now joined the Progress Party, and he says: "I no longer feel that Right has the values that I joined the game. They have moved too much towards the left.’ Unfortunately, I agree with both. For the Progress Party, it is incomprehensible that the Right is involved in electrification of the base, which will cost between 40 and 50 billion. kr and provide more expensive electricity to Norwegian citizens. It is incomprehensible that the Right is involved in introducing a long-term high CO 2 price, which both contributes to more expensive petrol and diesel, and which can contribute to the deflagration of Norwegian industrial workplaces. And it is incomprehensible that the Right picks up a terrorist from Norway, and more banks from Norway. Why does the Right – like the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left – prioritise billions for aid, immigration, integration and symbolic climate action in front of Norwegian patients who need vital medicines?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1349	I'm not quite sure who's not to recognize. We've been together in government for seven years, and it went very well. Then I have noticed that the Progress Party has ‘released from prison’, as the new party leader and the parliamentary leader said. But it went very well, and we got done very well for both Norwegian business and for the climate. That the Progress Party now needs to clear the profile, I certainly have the sense for, but I want to thank you first of all for our very constructive cooperation, and that we have managed to put in place important things for the country. I think the representative, Mr. Listhaug, should be happy about that too. If you're going to start discussing election transitions, I guess more voters have actually gone to the Right than to the Advance Party. When I entered the Stortinget, the Progress Party was larger than us. They're not now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1356	Here I was almost willing to give up the space to listen to the interesting dialogue – those who will take responsibility for Norway and not recognize each other. I am impressed by the gentle representative from Buskerud who is told that he is not to be recognized, and then he thanks and thanks for the cooperation. Yes, it doesn't promise very well. We often use anecdotes in politics. We hear examples. This with the property tax often comes up, and today we have mentioned the example of the founder of Oda, who says that the wealth tax is going perfectly well, that's fair. There are also anecdotes from the other side that claim that businesses are being hit. But where is the knowledge? I have had a debate with Greece many times. He has brought this up in line change with me. Our leading researchers at the Bergen School of Business concluded that there is no research evidence for what the Right says about that tax. Researchers at the Refresh Center here in Oslo have even found that the tax can be positive. An executive writer in the Financial Times said Norway should look at and introduce a moderate wealth tax. I want to ask: what research and documented knowledge is the representative based on when he repeatedly says how crucial it is to cut this tax, which hits them with the most wealth?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1365	First I want to tell the representative Gahr Støre that I have had many friendly and tough duels with him for eight years. Now the representative Gahr Støre is once again taking the goal of becoming Prime Minister. Being gentle and generous and able to talk to their potential partners in a pleasant way, I think the representative Gahr Støre should also take with him, for he will need it if he is to direct the crowd that intends to form a new government, or support it. In the case of taxes on wealth, evidence is very simple. If you are a large foreign player who establishes you in Norway, you do not pay taxes on wealth. If you are a Norwegian actor who is trying to grow, who is trying to create jobs, who is trying to keep life in District Norway, get industry or fish farming or other things going, you have to pay off your profits, you have to pay off your wealth. There is enough evidence for me to say that this is an unfair tax that we must continue to work to reduce.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1372	Trond Helleland is the biggest representative of the Buskerud constituency, who has been merged in the strange construction of the Viken. But Trond still holds Helleland as a candidate from Buskerud – fortunately. In Buskerud, the tourism industry is heavy, and throughout Norway, the tourism industry is heavy. Of course, it is an important industry in Oslo, but a very heavy district industry. It's a lot of thousands of companies, and it has a huge employment effect. And Hallingdal is one of the really heavy travel areas. Now Greece, with its leadership, has helped to double the travel income from 6 to 12 p.m. from 1 October. Does the representative of Greece think that this is a wise and correct time for doubling the fees for Norwegian travel life, when we see what major challenges tourism has faced throughout Norway, not least in his own constituency, Buskerud?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1379	The representative Battle Force Vedum is from the much larger state of Inland, which is much larger than the Week to extent. But now it has to be. I think people are actually willing to pay a little bit more in value added tax in order to travel to Hallingdal. I think the travel industry depends on customers who want to buy a good package, a good offer. That's the final bill for the consumer we're talking about here. The fact that you now go back to calling it normal, I actually think we need to do to be able to sew together the budgets that come in the years to come. Travel life in Hallingdal and the Inland, Uppland and Hedmark is going to be fine because people are now hungry for experiences. They are eager to experience the amazing Norwegian nature. This applies not least to all foreigners who will come to the country. We sometimes need some dollars in the treasury, and those 6 to 12 pst. is not crucial to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1389	In every alternative budget that SV has provided since 2013, most people have come out in plus compared to the government's plans. SV systematically gives more tax cuts to ordinary people than the government does. The whole 70 pst. the population will get tax cuts with our scheme, while those with slightly higher income will get a few hundred more patches. And then the richest ones pay the most in taxes with SV's plans. Why is it so important for the Right that the country's 1 000 richest will get 2 million? I don't like the tax cuts, but most people don't get that big tax cuts? Why is it more important that the country's wealthiest gets the big tax cuts, which increase the differences in Norway, while most people see their small tax cuts eaten up by increased kindergarten prices?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1396	Most people, as I said in my post, have got a lot more to walk with during this government. Taking the cut is a significant relief for families with children. What is often the problem with SV’s ageing is that they can set up some cuts and provide assistance to individual groups, but the total will be disastrous for Norwegian businesses. That's the money we're going to live with, that's the value creation. It is precisely those who generate income in the districts, who are heavily burdened with, for example. taxes on wealth, which the representative naturally thinks about. That is why we have systematically worked to increase value creation – to provide a good basis for Norwegian business. We now see that we are successful. Unemployment is rapidly going down again, and we're getting strengthened out of the pandemic. We want to be more competitive towards the rest of the world than most other countries are capable of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1403	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1408	Let me start by saying that the Progress Party was very pleased with the cooperation with the Right. It was a good government that made a good choice in 2017. Then we'll see what the future brings. In politics, it goes up and down. We'll see when the voters have passed their verdict on 13 September, and also on forward. Norway is privileged because we have oil money. It is fascinating to look at the MDG, Left, SV, Christian People's Party and Red, who would in practice shut down the oil industry, but who happily spend the money that hardworking oil workers have contributed to. But now leave it. In the revised national budget, the Progress Party has helped to ensure improvements in net wages, which benefit Norwegian seafarers. We have removed the fee for non-alcoholic beverages. We've reduced the ferry rates by 25 pst, and we've strengthened the commitment to mental health. We've also got 100 million. kr for the purchase and use of new medicines and treatments. That's very good. But it does not help all those where medicine is available, but for animals for decision-making forums for new methods. It doesn't help Ellen Winther and others with cystic fibrosis that need medicine Kaphtrio now. Ellen is a 46-year-old woman with a lung capacity of 22 pst. She just needs this medicine to breathe. Nevertheless, she is refused. If nothing happens, Ellen will die. This is going on at the same time as we spend 400 billion. kr more to save lives and jobs under the coronary apathy. At the same time, the oil fund has increased to 11 500 billion. kr. There's been an increase of 600 billion. NOK only in the last month. It's going on at the same time that we spend almost 40 billion dollars. kr of assistance, and we give more than we can follow up. It's going on at the same time as we spend 15 billion. kr on integration, and that is the top of the iceberg in relation to what it actually costs. At the same time, we are subsidising oil companies, one of the most capitalised industries in the world, in order to invest in carbon capture and storage – an industry that could without difficulty fund these investments itself, if they believed that there was money in this. And it's going on at the same time that other parties in this room will spend 40-50 billion. kr to electrify the socket, take electricity from land and send it out to the platforms, which will mean a higher electricity price for ordinary people and for the industry on land. The centre party, which is talking about charges, is in favour of electrification of the base. I visited little Elvin earlier this week. He's four years old, about as old as my son. He was born with cystic fibrosis. It's a disease that 370 people in this country have. But we can't afford to give them the medicine they need. Elvin has some time. He's still too small to be able to start going on these drugs, but his parents have of course begun to worry about the day when he has to get these drugs if he's going to get good quality of life. That's why the family is talking about moving to Denmark. So we have a system that can lead people to become health refugees in order to get help. Because not everyone can afford to pay off their own pocket, as a family here in Oslo does, who pays NOK 228 000 a month for the daughter of 13 years to get this medicine, and who is afraid of the day they're empty for money, and they can't buy medicine for the daughter anymore. The Progress Party believes it is a great shame that the rest of the Stortinget today agree with our proposal to make Kaftrio available to people in Norway with cystic fibrosis. We're talking about a bunch of people. We're talking about small money in the big context. One chooses to protect a system – the Decision Forum for New Methods – that does not work, instead of protecting life and health for the citizens of Norway. But we're not giving in. This fight continues. Because it's about breathing, it's about living.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1425	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1430	Few are the chosen ones. State-funded care for the elderly has been one of the fanatics of the Advance Party. After eight years with both hands on the steering wheel, we will soon have eleven municipalities in this scheme. The Labour Party believes that we should use the money to enable all municipalities to lift the elderly care rather than have a bureaucratic system for a few selected municipalities. Does not the representative of Listhaug agree that this arrangement has failed when under 4 p.m. the municipalities of the country have joined it after the Progress Party has ruled the country from government and big business since 2013? Or is the representative satisfied that at the rate at which her performance project is now being implemented, it will take more than 258 years before she has been outsourced state-funded care for the elderly throughout the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1437	What we have been shown is that what we have always talked about, namely that the state should take the cost of care services – instead of leaving them to the individual municipality, where we see that there are tremendous differences depending on the residence address you have – in practice works. The municipalities that have tried state-funded care for the elderly are essentially very satisfied. The thing is, it's not the money bag for the municipality that controls how much help you get, but what kind of help you actually need. So I think it's strange that the Workers' Party has it as a battle cause to remove a lot of municipalities actually seem to be working very well. One of the main defenders and, to the extent that the marketers of this system are the rapporteur in Stjørdal of the Central Party, who has pointed out that without this system they could not have built a health centre. Without this scheme, the care sector in the municipality would not have been so good. So let's get more into it instead of reducing the offer to those who have now succeeded in getting better.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1444	I thank you for your answer. These eight years have shown that a little more money for a few selected people has not been a success. It may have shown that the Progress Party has had a lack of impact on its ideas in the government with which they have sat and cooperated, reaching 15 p.m. opening in options has given less than 4 pst. impact on state-funded care for the elderly. But I want to bring up another arrangement that the representative Listhaug was the Minister of the Elderly and Public Health for when the government cut it. It is the state grant to day-time activities places for people with dementia. The working party was in order to legislate the right to such a day-time activity space. But we thought it was too early to remove the grant scheme because we feared that it would affect already existing offers and new offers. Such an offer was Eyegarden's institute on a small farm in Grimstad – very popular. The consequence there was less money for the operation and an executive manager who had to cancel himself. Grimstad municipality is run by the Right and Advance Party with a Vice-President from the Progress Party. Is Listhaug satisfied that her cut of the state support system has led to the day-to-day provision for people with dementia having to carry out cuts in the progressive party-driven municipality of Grimstad?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1451	Now what we did was add it to the framework grant to the municipalities and ensure that this money came out to the municipalities. Then it is clear that the local authorities themselves must give priority to the money. Now the Workers' Party is in charge of many Norwegian municipalities. One would think that it shines with the care of the elderly all over the line, as the representative here speaks. Here you have to sweep at your own door and at least make sure that your own local politicians in the Labour Party at least follow it up, which I record is that you don't do around. What the Progress Party has done is to ensure that we now strengthen the efforts to prevent loneliness by 400 million. kr. It's going to mean a lot too many older people around the country, and they get out and get involved in activities, and we can prevent loneliness that makes people sick.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1458	I noticed that the representative Listhaug talked a lot about fees. The fasitant after eight years with the Progress Party as part of the majority is that the fees in Norway are higher than when Siv Jensen became Minister of Finance in Norway. One of the taxes that have increased the most, with several billion dollars, is the charge on electricity – when the representative talks about one being concerned that the flow should not cost too much for people. Then I wonder one thing. The representative, Listhaug, represents a state that is an important tourist community, and we heard the representative of Greece say that people could pay a little bit more when they were out traveling, and that we could have 12 pst. Travel life savings in Norway, even if you have 8 pst. in Sweden. One has heard the Minister of Finance and others say that someone needs the money for the Treasury. What is the motivation of Mr Listhaug to go in to double the VAT on travel from 1 October? Is it that someone needs the money for the Treasury, or is it that people who are out traveling can pay more for that trip?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1465	Now I think we should look at developments, and if it turns out that there is a need to do more with the VAT on travel life, I expect the government to come back to the Stortinget with suggestions on that. But I'm far more concerned about Gülsvik and his associates, who are now going to increase the wealth tax. The Workers' Party proposes $4.5 billion. kr from 1 July, which will hit many small travel businesses hard and probably cost them much more than what this fee does. But we're absolutely willing to look at it. With regard to this charge on electricity, I think that many Norwegian households and industrial companies should be far more concerned about the extraction that the representative Gülsvik and the Senterpartie will now send them, because they support electrification of the socket. We do not find a good argument for doing so – spending so much money on a project that will in reality not provide any lower greenhouse gas emissions globally.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1473	There are many cuts that there is reason to respond to in this budget unit. The Party of Advancement has in its wisdom, among other things: negotiated a cut of nearly 90 million. kr in digital security and communication – of all things. It is therefore after the Stortinget has been subjected to two data attacks, and the Riksrevision has provided devastating reports on ICT security and preparedness in the healthcare system and our power supply. But I would like to ask the representative, Mr Listhaug, about the million-dollar cut in the development of new green technology, among other things. hydrogen. The Progress Party is adorning itself with work, but then they cut into the tools to get new green industry that can create thousands of jobs in the future, to get short-term money into other things. Won't it be like selling the cow to buy milk?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1480	I record that many parties in this room are throwing out money as long as it's about climate. But when it's about e.g. to help sick people with drugs, you don't see the same commitment – nor from SV. I think it's a shame that the SV of all, a party that says they're concerned with reducing social inequalities, who are concerned about setting up for people who are struggling, people who are sick, today vote down the proposal of the Progress Party to help Ellen and several others with cystic fibrosis who are struggling to breathe. I can't understand such a priority, but I record that for them it's more important with new green technology than actually helping people in Norway live – that people in Norway breathe. It is, in my view, a wrong priority, and the Progress Party hopes and believes that we should in the long term be able to reverse the majority in this Chamber to take it seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1485	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1490	Sufficient Battle Force Vedum [[Sp]] We saw it first with the near-police reform, which unfortunately got too much support here in the Chamber. We saw it with the reform of university and higher education. We saw it with the strange regional reform where we got structures that nobody really can defend – or say what has become better. Now we see the thing right over here. We've seen it with the organisation of the tax rate and the organisation of the Nav. All the major public reforms have had one common denominator, and it has been centralisation. When the Brandtzeg Committee presented its report before Christmas, they concluded that it is the public sector that is the major centraliser in Norway — and in particular the state. There was a sample that the government had put down, the Brandtzæg committee, which said that it is especially the state that is the major centraliser in Norway. While the private sector in a completely different way has activity and dares to invest in large and small areas, the state has moved out. Or as the rapporteur in Bø, from the Right, said, the State has left us. We also see that in 261 municipalities, the number of employees in the state decreased from 2013 to 2019, with 9,192 employees, while in total the state has grown violently, and especially in the largest cities, there has been a huge increase in the state's business and government bureaucracy. So centralization has unfortunately been a common denominator. Then I must mention the role of the Progress Party, because we also hear in the debate today how the Progress Party begins to respond when, for example, they do. is challenged at the travel hub, that they should listen and see and think it's a little strange. But it is the Progress Party itself that has now concluded in this revised national budget that they want to double the VAT rate for small businesses around the whole of Norway. The Progress Party cannot talk itself out of it. The Progress Party has been on all eight budgets and has been the most central party with the Right. The Right Party and the Advance Party in total have shown that they do not see how they can develop all of Norway and that Norway is more than the Oslo centre. We need good action in the Oslo Centre, but we also need good action in the large and small places that keep Norway together. Then Finance Minister Jan Tore Sanner is a little awkward with numbers, and the Right is a little awkward with numbers when it comes to the trade balance. I remember that in the 2013 election campaign Erna Solberg was very concerned about the deficit from mainland Norway. She was worried about the development she saw. At that time, the trade deficit was 152 billion. kr. Last year, the deficit was 312 billion. kr. We've had a huge growth in the deficit from mainland Norway. We've become more and more dependent on oil and gas revenues. When we look at the first five months of this year, the growth continues. The trade deficit is even greater in mainland Norway this year than it was last year, and in the first five months, the trade deficit was 117 billion. kr. Just in the first five months, we're getting closer to what was the total trade deficit in 2013. The reason I'm saying that is because there's so much talk, including in the celebrations of Erna Solberg and Right, that they've converted the Norwegian economy. That's not right when you look at the numbers. It is not that there has been new, large, heavy industrial investment in Norway. Where the investment has gone up, it's in housing and property, but we can't live by selling two-room apartments to each other. It is not a sustainable strategy for Norway as a country, and we need to start getting new productions up. We need to get new industrial investment up. In recent years, industrial investment has been around 26 B.C.E. kr, while real estate investment has been well above 200 billion. kr. That's where the big money in the Norwegian economy goes, and if we're going to be able to have wealth growth, better purchasing power, have a positive development in Norway as a country in the years to come, we need to be able to get more private value creation and get more industrial investment. That's probably why that figure, when we talk about deficits in mainland Norway, might sound a little boring, but it's about the future value creation and that we politicians today are going to make sure that the generations that come after us are going to have prosperity development, get better, that we can have new welfare reforms, and that we are going to develop all parts of Norway and have services close to people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1507	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1512	It's good with a time when we can go out and visit businesses again. It also agrees with Vedum’s importance. In Grimstad we have Skarpnes – a solid family business, large production of roof tiles, forward-looking and innovative. I visited them recently, and then they could proudly tell that after long development they now produce roof tiles with solar cells in each stone in a system. It's a big aesthetic advance for the solar roof and a huge boost for the company. How could that be possible? Well, it was absolutely essential that we had the EEA Agreement, which opened up cooperation on funding, development and access to competences, otherwise they would not have. So the companies say that the agreement is absolutely crucial for development, innovation and delivery, while here in the hall we hear that the Center Party will destroy it and now cut 1 billion. NOK in liabilities we have assumed. What is the answer to Skarpnes and other companies like that?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1521	As the owner of a solar panel myself, I have to go and visit that company, because I am always fascinated by all the good people who run Norwegian businesses around Norway, who take small profits and often live a very sober life. For they are capable people, very many of those who create businesses in Norway. There is a main difference between the Centre Party and the Right in our view regarding the relationship with the EU. It is that Right wants Norwegian EU membership. In 2005, Erna Solberg said that one of her best arguments for Norwegian EU membership was the introduction of the euro in Norway. We in the Central Party do not want Norwegian EU membership. We want agreements with the EU, but we believe it is possible to achieve better agreements than we have today. There's something quite different than the scare that the Right is doing that the Center Party doesn't want agreements. Of course we're going to have deals. We're going to have good deals. It shall be predictable. However, we believe that the way in which the Right – management of the Labour Party does not talk so much about it anymore – will go by notifying Norway into the EU is a wrong path.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1528	I think I can guarantee that it was not a reassuring answer for Skarpnes that Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum came along now, but I will pass that on to them. Another thing is that the Center Party writes in its comments that tax relief is important for business. And we're going to like that in the right-hand side. But I'm probably afraid that the Center Party has chosen wrong friends when they're going to work on this, because the friends are going to increase taxes and taxes for business, and they're going to burden those who create the jobs that facilitate value creation, even more. Only now, in the revised version, the Workers' Party will have 5 billion. kr more in taxes, SV 5,6 billion. kr more, Environmental Party of the Greens 7.2 bn. kr more and Red 8.2 brd. kr more. This can be demanding. Does Schlagsvold Vedum look forward to the future if he would come into the situation that he would take responsibility for reducing taxes and taxes on business?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1535	I have to take a phone down to the management of Skarpnes and arrange a meeting. Then I think they're going to be very calm and in a good mood when that meeting is over, because they're going to realize that with the Central Party in government, it's going to be a predictable and safe business policy. We will always be concerned with good agreements with the EU, the United Kingdom and other important trading partners in Europe. If people see that it is time for a government to develop all of Norway, have services close to people and have a sensible tax and tax policy, they must vote in the Centre Party. Because we have repeatedly said that we need to actively use fiscal policy to create jobs in Norway, and have been very critical of some of the stunts that Right has done, for example. together with the Left when the introduction of a seat tax, which hit Norwegian business very hard, and the stunts they did in terms of taxes on non-alcoholic beverages, which hit the Norwegian food industry very hard. We want predictability, security and the lowest possible level of taxes and charges, because it is to make the State also operate as efficiently as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1542	I've read a little bit in the program of the Center Party, and there we can, among other things. read that the Centre Party wishes to contribute to the zero-emission vehicles of all new passenger cars and light goods vehicles sold in 2025. The Progress Party has long warned against the ban on petrol and diesel cars for many reasons and has the simple opinion that some choices should allow people to take on their own. How does the Central Party view the achievement of the objective of zero-emission vehicles for all new cars? Is it a prohibition, or is it going to reverse the charges so much that normal petrol and diesel cars are so expensive that no one is going to buy them anyway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1549	It is totally inappropriate to adopt a ban on buying ordinary cars in Norway in 2025. We've moderated what's in the program. Last time, we used exactly the wording that Ketil Solvik-Olsen presented as Minister of Transport – the one in the National Transport Plan, and that the Progress Party proposed to the Stortinget. We thought that the wording was too hard, because there was a sense of banning, when you read Ketil Solvik-Olsen's wording. That's why we've written "contribute to" in today's program. We don't want any ban. In our alternative budget, we have a lower fuel charge than the Advance Party has agreed with, among other things. Right. We must gradually phase in new cars, but not punish those who drive older cars. So it's just to relax completely. I understand that the Progress Party is going to try to use this in the election campaign propaganda, but it has no ground in reality. They can just keep going, and then we can discuss, and then people have to decide for themselves. We're not going to forbid. We are going to allow the use of ordinary cars, and we are going to work for a lower level of fuel charges than the Progress Party has been able to achieve when they are in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1557	Now it could have been tempting to ask a climate question, but I won't. Here in Oslo center there are not so many Norwegian export companies. Export companies are all over the country, and they are dependent on the EEA Agreement. The EEA Agreement is a district-friendly agreement, stronger than anything else we have. With the experience we now have with a free trade agreement with the United Kingdom, and how demanding it was to be put in place: why does the Senter Party still want to enter into a free trade agreement with the EU, when it will necessarily be a worse deal than the one we have today, for Norwegian export companies and therefore for the Norwegian districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1564	After all, the left has changed the line in the discussion on Norwegian EU membership and has moved on to the same line as the Labour Party and the Right – that Norway wants to be notified into the EU. I believe that this is a very unwise line. We in the Central Party want agreements with the European Union. We have had that all along, but we want better agreements with the European Union. For example, one must also be able to think offensively about fishing. Is it possible to get lower customs duties? You should not just think that what was negotiated in the early 1990s is perfect. You have to look at how we can better safeguard our national interests. Then our conclusion is that we do it by having agreements, not EU membership, while the Left, Right and Labour Party – I don't know if there are any more parties, but at least they – really want Norway to be a member. The Norwegian people have said no to Norwegian EU membership twice. It has served us well, and we're going to work for it in the future. But we'll always see if we can make better agreements that guarantee our interests better and not weaken them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1571	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1576	This is a debate on the revised budget, but it is also the end of a major period – and hopefully also in eight years of bourgeois rule. Budgetary treatment is also an appropriate opportunity to summarise some of the main reasons why the current government and the majority that we have had on the Stortinget for a long time should be replaced for the harvest. What's the fasit after these years? Well, increasing inequality in power and wealth — a social problem that we know today is largely due to the fact that a small economic elite in this country is allowed to leave. It's a development that the current majority actively advocates by systematically rigging our tax system for the rich. Secondly, it is a government that has blocked the climate targets for 2020. Even though they had eight years to reach them, they couldn't. To date, they have submitted a 2030 plan which does not contain measures to achieve more than about 50 %. half of the target. You bombed in 2020, and you don't have a plan for 2030. There is also a majority who lack a plan for the green shift, which is not just about climate policy, but is about ensuring that we have enough to live off in this country, that people have work to go to in 10 years, in 20 years. It is up to us to put a course that ensures work and prosperity into a future that will be based on renewable energy instead of fossil energy. That development will leave the majority of the Storing today to the coincidences of the market, and perhaps the most important political contradiction in Norwegian policy right now is between those who want a green shift on market premises and those who want a fair green shift. The revised budget was also the last chance of a fair crisis policy by the government. The pandemic has become a disparity crisis, where it has become very clear that the few at the top of the Norwegian society have gained power and wealth in this crisis, where things have gone so far on the stock exchange, where the government has systematically left off making demands for them at the top, while the workers have paid the price of the crisis in the professions where unemployment has been highest, in the professions where the extra burdens have been greatest. Currently, some representatives of the upper class in Norway, Sissener and Hegnar, for example, are very busy warning against a new majority in which SV acquires power. I'm very happy about that, because they remind people of two things. One is that the differences in this country have become too large, and the other is that SV is the party that can and will do something about it. We believe it is time for a tough tax policy to shift from those who have the most, to ordinary workers and from increasing private consumption at the top of Norwegian society to common welfare. We will prioritise free school leisure arrangements for all, so that all children can participate, and a dental reform that will close the largest hole in the Norwegian welfare state. And we want to clean up the many unsocial cuts that the bourgeois majority has inflicted on people with little and people who are ill in this country. It will give a fairer Norway. We have a plan for a fair green shift – the plan that the bourgeois majority lacks. We have submitted a climate budget showing how the target of 60 pst. emissions cut by 2030 can be achieved – tonnes per tonne, measures for action, crowns. And we want to present an updated plan for 70 pst., which we believe is the goal Norway should now take on board. We have a plan for the industrial and industrial policies that the country needs to ensure both that we achieve the climate goals, that we get new green tasks for the industry, the workers and the engineers who are currently dependent on oil. It is not just the best climate policy, but the best industrial policy, for it is those who will wait, those who will not act, who will be guilty of creating unemployment and industrial death along the coast in the future. That's why, because we care about the future of Norwegian economy and Norwegian jobs, we say that the time has come for a new search for fossil energy, and it's those who, later on, like we can continue as before, will do great damage to the country's economic future as well. A fair Norway, a fair green shift, a policy for the many, not for the few are what we need now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1597	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1602	Now we heard the representative Light Hill list what doesn't work out of government policy, and he doesn't mean housing policy. That's because he works. Eight out of ten own today's own dwelling, and the owner is strong. There is agreement that self-ownership democracy is part of the berebark of Norwegian society. Norwegian housing policy has been shown to be successful. There are now fewer homeless people than ever. In order to keep prices growing down, it is therefore important to make it easier to build more dwellings faster – and those required by the inhabitants. SV has reclaimed old plans for a third housing sector as an alternative to the two existing housing sectors, i.e. the large market-based commercial sector and the smaller public housing sector, which is targeting the most disadvantaged. The last time SV tried this, it resulted in a black economy, money below the table and increased differences. What does SV want to do this time, and can the SV representative guarantee that no more people will experience an increase in differences, as it did when SV's radical changes were attempted?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1611	I think it is brave of the representative Trellevik to say that housing policy in Norway is working. I hope that the Right repeats it many times in the election campaign, because I think a lot of people around the country are going to put the coffee in their throats when they hear it – for example. all those who have a normal income but who still cannot afford to buy a dwelling in our cities, or all those young people who do not have enough money to help them into the housing market, for very many of them there is no alternative, or all those who have much more debt than what is comfortable when a person faces a period of interest increases. So we're one of the most indebted people in the Western world. It's not to understand that the Right can really believe that it's a successful housing policy. That's what we want to do. Then one doesn't just need one plan to build more. I totally agree that we have to build more, but it's naive to think that it solves the problem. That's why we want a third housing sector that makes it possible to rent on long-term contracts, on non-commercial terms, as they have in Denmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1618	Will this result in us reaching the goal of even more people owning their own homes? One of the challenges is that we do not reach the target, for example: Here in Oslo, one of the locals here is well to set requirements for the number of square meters in their own dwelling, so that an apartment today must be over 40 m2. This means that the prices in e.g. Oslo is considerably taller than many other places. Oslo is a town that houses a lot of individuals who don't want such big apartments. Would SV agree to set municipalities much freer both in land planning and in the choice and design of housing policy in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1626	I agree that it is a goal that as much as possible should be able to own their own housing, and it is an advantage that so many people own their own housing in Norway. But it is not wise to have a housing policy based on the fact that everyone can own it all the time – because that is not the case. Today we have a policy that makes those who can't own come out hopelessly bad, and that a good number of people take on too much debt to get in. The idea of a housing sector of the kind they have in Denmark is that a person creates less pressure on the owner market as well. It also allows people to have a waiting station until they have the economy to own themselves. That makes sense. So it's not land policy or municipal constraints that are the main problem of today's housing policy, but lack of alternatives to an overheated market and a tax policy that Right has to start thinking about, that makes property speculation more profitable for the rich than investment in productive activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1633	As the representative of SV is well known, the historic Hotel Ullensvang was sold in ours to owners outside Norway. Thus it was at the end of about 175 years of local ownership for a family-run enterprise. Unfortunately, Ullenswang is not alone in being flagged and a changing company. If SV decides after the election, the property tax will increase by about 11 billion. kr. It will make it even more attractive to sell Norwegian businesses out of the country. We also heard that in the posts of the representative, and I understand very well that companies are now worried. Why does SV believe that it is better for companies such as Hotel Ullensvang is owned by foreign investment funds than by Norwegian families with Norwegian employees?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1642	The fact that property taxes are a major problem for Norwegian businesses is no more true because the claim is repeated more frequently. The truth is, the right-hand side and the NHO have had a lot of trouble finding many concrete examples that the property tax creates these effects. On the contrary, when research has been carried out, the findings suggest that it makes sense for the Norwegian economy and to create Norwegian jobs that one also taxes wealth. Remember, we see this at OECD level, that is, the largest economies in the Western world, Norway has a tax on capital that is in the middle of the tree – that is, a completely different place from what the fright image on the right is trying to create. What is a major problem in Norway, however, is that inequalities are increasing. It's also starting to recognize the right-hand side. But if you're going to admit that it's a problem, you also have to admit why it happens, that the richest go away. And if, for example: eliminates all taxation of wealth, reinforces that development instead of stopping it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1650	Nor will SV have the EEA Agreement, which appears quite incomprehensible when looking at the environment, where we follow the water directive. We have renewable directives, and we have directives to improve housing construction. We have agreed climate objectives with clear commitments by 2030, and we now have the greening of the EU that will lead to regulatory development, of which it is very good for Norway to be part – that is, a dynamic agreement that is constantly improving climate and environmental work, and of which Norway is becoming a part. Why does SV believe that it is better to have a rigid agreement instead of participating in the development of better climate and environmental work with the EU in an EEA agreement? What's wrong with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1663	There is nothing that would have prevented Norway from pursuing an as active climate policy as the EU does without the EEA. The left has moved to link our climate process very closely to the EU. The problems with that, on which we have never received clear enough answers from the Left, are the danger of choosing to buy free through European quota purchases instead of cutting yourself. It is a kind of climate policy that we are opposed to, precisely because it does not trigger the development of new technologies that emissions cut in Norway do. That's why it makes sense that we do the best we can ourselves. I understand that the left has no problems with the EEA Agreement. Our resistance and scepticism to it is linked to the kind of civil economic policy that a sheep when one cannot have stronger measures against social dumping, and when one gets privatisation of the railway. But that's left of us, we're against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1670	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1675	Never before has more been done, taking more measures in such a short time that Norway should be a leading player in order to close the world together by reducing greenhouse gas emissions quickly enough to avoid the worst climate change disasters. With the Left in power, we have the strongest and most important tool we have, the market forces – a green tax shift where we look down on taxes and taxes for what we want more of, climate-friendly actions in everyday life and in governance, and set up the price of what needs to be reduced, greenhouse gas emissions. Car tax policy is perhaps the best example in this respect, where the changes in charges make it possible for the new car dealership in Norway to be dominated in record time by zero-cars and hybrid cars. The monthly increase in public transport and rail licences is another example. Take the urban growth agreements: When the left came to power in 2013, the red-green plural had left collective development in the cities – with the exception of Oslo, where the state gave 7 pst. support — full to the municipalities themselves. Today the state shoots in 66 pst. and contribute heavily to the attractiveness of public services in cities. The crop of red-green plurality introduced into the field of research and technology development has turned to a historical and systematic priority both of basic research, user-right research and technological development, not least with green signage. Enova is strengthened with many green drop billions. The climate technology systems, which particularly hit the large industry, are monthly strengthened. The same applies to CO 2 compensation schemes and to the tax regulations. With regard to the second party only now, government investment funds of the 10-billionaire class have begun to ensure that many more technology development projects in existing industry get a co-investor with enough long-term capital to participate in the industrialisation of new technologies, we have been established by Nysnø Klimainvestierung AS in Stavanger for the longest time. The conditions for start-up activities are also better monthly. The availability of risk capital is far better than ever, including: through strengthening the Seed Fund scheme and through entirely new schemes, such as Capital Find, where investors investing in start-up enterprises receive tax credits in the order of 25 pst. of the investment sum. I am also very pleased that we have put in place an option scheme for start-ups which allows them to actually compete for attractive jobseekers by offering axles at a stage where companies do not have the economy to compete for wages with established companies. And we have last, but not least more important welfare arrangements, such as maternity leave and sick pay for self-employed workers. Rarely, if ever, has there been a more systematic effort to get something done with the most heartbreaking thing in the welfare community of Norway, some say that 100,000 young people are growing into poverty in one of the world's richest countries. We now have some of the important measures in place to provide equal opportunities for all: early efforts by making kindergartens and school-based leisure facilities free of charge for young people from so-called low-income families, together with a marked increase in child-rearing for the smallest children. If I have one alarm message at the very least at the moment of both the period and the session, it must be the money consumption Stortinget now depends on. The fact that we use oil money and the rule of action to compensate business and cultural actors through the coronary crisis is, of course, both easy to defend. There are temporary measures which, as a result, are simpler to gradually reduce and remove. But when we experience, at the latest yesterday in social security, the majority of people allow new 650 million. kr without anyone taking responsibility for the invasion beyond sending the bill to those who come after us, there is reason to remind each other whether why we have a rule of action, and why he is so incredibly important to respect collectively. He assures us that our young and our grandchildren will have the same opportunity to benefit from oil wealth long after the oil age is over. Each crown we use for good purposes through more oil money use today, is at least one penny smaller to secure the freedom of future generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1695	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1700	It's interesting to hear the representative, if the party also has the Minister of Industry, talk about state instruments, all the time you're part of a government that has an approximate state allergy. The question is, is the industry that is perhaps the hardest hit right now by the crisis – travel life. It did not mention the representative in one word, but that crisis is going to be for very many small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and businesses for a long time to come, and unfortunately the measures have not helped well enough. This government has not been willing to adjust the price along the way. You have been reasonably satisfied as it is. We know that in the time to come, we're going to have to do a lot, and Innovation Norway just put forward a travel strategy. Why is there not a single crown for action in the revised budget once the travel strategy has arrived?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1707	I myself come from a municipality – Norway’s most beautiful village – where travel life is one of the cornerstone industries, and it is with respect to report completely wrong that we have not taken significant measures for travel life through the coronary crisis. But it's quite right, as the representative says, that travel life is one of the industries that unfortunately is the hardest chance because we've taken away their customer base. I believe that one of the most important things we can now do as a politician is to raise the capacity and volume of marketing, not least foreign marketing. I think there is a significant potential for Norway also in the post-corona era, as one of the countries in the world that has managed the coronary crisis so uniquely, and that is felt to be safe and safe to travel to. What I think is the most important thing to do now, given that travel life is going to get back on track quickly, is that we have political support for them getting back users and customers even after the Norwegian holiday summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1714	It's not as simple as that – that you can only market Norway, and then everything is going to be in place, because people don't have equity left. That's bad. People are struggling and having a hard time. Take, for example: a major business in Tromsø, the hotel The Edge, which usually has 198 employees. Now there's 26 at work. This is the situation of travel life, and the situation is not going to be on top and back to normal until maybe 2024. That means you have to have financial resources in place. You have to help the companies not only for conversion, but also for them to be able to cope. Then it is a problem not to spend money on targeted actions in the future. Nor do you want to be part of the proposal, for example. from the Workers' Party, about a re-start for travel life, where you deposit money. They said no to a sales-based scheme, which would bring up a lot of businesses. One also destroyed the state valve system, which one should have had in place. Why do you not want to be involved both in adjusting the rate and in introducing measures into the revised budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1719	We have just taken significant measures towards travel to get them through the coronary crisis, but I fully agree that travel life, which is one of the most distant industries, is why we politicians have an extra close dialogue with from time to time. Travel life may well be in a situation where one needs to maintain, adjust and perhaps have other measures to ensure that they have legs to stand on until the market has reestablished, hopefully in a short time. This is very hard to predict.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1724	On Monday’s Day Revy, Kjersti Marie Heldaas, lecturer at Nøtterøy High School, expressed frustration at what Left has delivered as a school party. She made the following call: The left must listen more to the teachers. On a case-by-case basis, we see that the left does not listen. When the Left's Minister of Knowledge presented the reform of completion, there was a problem, especially with regard to the common subjects, and she also had to draw up the proposal for a new subject of the future. On a case-by-case basis, it seems that the minister does not listen to the sector. I can mention the question of the admission scheme in high school, new math exams and exams that were cancelled in 12 hours – the oral ones, that is. What would the representative say to Kjersti Marie and other teachers who are very frustrated by the Left as a school party?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1730	I want to encourage Kjersti Marie and her ass to invite the Minister of Education to visit. I don't think I know any politician who in such a short time as Guri Melby has been an active politician, has visited several schools and listened more to Norwegian teachers. I don't think I know any politician who has laid down more pad flat than Guri did when she came out a bit crooked with the reform. It's just taking a tour of Guri Melby's facebook page, and there's a lessonbook example for a politician who also has the ability to say that we're bombing here.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1735	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1740	The Government and the Advance Party have agreed on eight State budgets and eight RNBs. By giving and taking these parties have not only found together, but also chiseled out a steady course for the country over these years, regardless of whether it has been normal years or crises. In 2015 we got the oil price drop and rapidly increasing regional unemployment. Through targeted crisis packages and steady management, we got the country back to normal and started the transformation of society into a new normal, where the petroleum sector is slightly less the engine of growth in society. By 2020 we had a new crisis, a crisis we are now fortunately on our way out of. In this crisis, too, the government has been heading steady. We have fewer deaths than the countries we usually compare with. We have fewer infected people per 100,000, and business is doing better. We should certainly not underestimate that this has been very difficult for many and still is and will be so. However, it is important to say that with a population who has patiently ended up with infectious diseases, adaptable enterprises and targeted policies, we have passed this test. It's starting to shine, and we've already got numbers that give us good reasons to hope and believe that everyday life will be normal again, but this isn't the time for the big experiments. This government stands for a stabilized and tough course, which this country also needs for the next four years. During this four-year period, the children and the family have been the winners. In the autumn of 2017, the Christian People's Party was given an impact on the teaching norm. The teacher’s norm is that there should be a standard at school level with a maximum of 15 students per teacher between 1 and 4. steps and a maximum of 20 students per teacher between 5 and 10. steps. It is a teaching standard that has given us 3,400 new years of teaching in primary school since the fall of 2016. This has been a reform at school, which the state has fully compensated for, a reform that ensures that each student is seen both professionally and humanly. Christian People's Party is in no doubt: the teachers are the school's most important resource. That's why we have to make sure that the teachers have time to see and help each student. The Christian People's Party and the government have listened to the teachers, the parents and the students, who are tough and know what is needed. Those who, on the other hand, do not want a teacher's norm are the Center Party. The centre party will, as they say themselves, liquidate the teaching norm, so that municipalities are more able to distribute resources between their schools as needed. I can already tell the Central Party how this resource allocation will be, because in the period 2014-2017 it was granted 1.3 billion. kr to increased teacher's density. This should have given 1,800 new years of teaching. The result was 198. It's worth remembering when you're going to choose the distant teacher norm. In 1995, the children's pension was adjusted to NOK 970, and there it remained for over 20 years, until the Christian People's Party joined the government. From 1 September 2021, the child's pension will be NOK 1654 for the youngest children. Child protection is most important for those who have the least, and is a targeted poverty response. The Christian People's Party has delivered where others have spoken. In addition, we started the roll-out of the leisure card. There is a historical commitment to the inclusion of children and young people and enables all, regardless of their economic background, to participate in organised leisure activities. The Christian People's Party has in government prioritised children and grew up in everything from health centres, parental support and income support to be able to participate in kindergarten and SFO. The one-off benefit for parents without entitlement to parental leave has been increased from approx. 35000 kroner in 2013 to over 90 000 kroner this year. We have increased the appropriations for health and family protection to provide support and guidance to parents and to combat violence, abuse and other conditions that are harmful to children. This has been four years where there has been a real effort on children and family. The Christian People's Party in the government means a clear voice. When the Center Party will win votes on vaccine protectionism when the world is in a pandemic, the Christian People's Party is clear on our solidarity with our fellow human beings, no matter where they are in the world. When the Progress Party will cut the aid budget massively while the world is in crisis, the Christian People's Party is clear that solidarity does not stop at the Swedish border. When the entire opposition finds out about changes in the biotechnology law, which takes us a long step closer to the sorting society, the Christian People's Party is clearly on the human world. When the Workers' Party and SV want stronger political governance of the families, the Christian People's Party is clear that the families themselves know best what solutions are suitable for them. In these questions, no one in the next years can replace the clarity of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1770	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1775	The Christian People's Party can now soon celebrate its eight-year anniversary as a support wheel for Erna Solberg. The game is an expert on small breakthroughs, swallowing unsocial cuts and at the same time being a guarantee that a settlement will be even more expensive. Nevertheless, we still hear the Christian People's Party talk about the need to strengthen the economy in the long term, and that money does not solve all problems. Then there is a question: Is the representative of the Count comfortable with the buttons and image he has received in these budgets, in view of the fact that the main contribution of the Christian People's Party to the country these eight years have been to keep alive a government that has seen record in oil money use, to weaken the growth power of the Norwegian economy and to increase the differences between people?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1780	If we're going to have a summary of what the Christian People's Party has achieved in this collaboration over the eight years, we have a lot of things to be satisfied with. We have mentioned a historical increase in child welfare – it is strange that the Labour Party is not involved in one of the most targeted poverty measures, which researchers can show is making a difference. Increased disposable social benefits are important for people outside the labour market. Not least, there is a strong increase in the poverty rate, which amounts to over 1 billion. kr, and the escalation plan against violence and abuse against children important initiatives that we have put in place in a society that has made this absolutely necessary. The same applies to school initiatives and other important areas that hit children, families, people who are in a weak position initially and who need support and good framework conditions. I had thought that the Workers' Party would be involved, not sitting outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1785	I repeat what I said about the Christian People's Party as an expert in small victories. But this answer fascinates me in the light of the financial figures Storehaug did in the debate instead as he straightened out an official index finger on the need for priority and criticized the Labour Party for money use. The representative of the Count has been in the process of negotiating many settlements, and it is asked whether the Christian People's Party should perhaps direct the official index finger to itself instead, unless it is such that the Count can cite one example of a bet he has been against, a cut he has been for, or a successful conversion reform that he has contributed to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1790	In a cooperative government and in cooperation with three – sometimes four – parties, one must give and take all the way. I have mentioned some important examples in which we have managed to lift vulnerable groups, where we have been given better status to families, where we have been clear about poverty measures, and where we have stood up for assistance, kept the quota refugee figure at a high level, which has been important for us. Then we've also been involved and helped to create this consensus. It is clear that we do not agree with everything that this government stands for, but we have been concerned about the whole thing. At the same time, we have also been clear that we should do this within a responsible financial framework. We have managed to do that in a good way in terms of oil money use – a little more now in these times of crisis, but it is as it should be when a state has a thick wallet, and the crisis has hit us as strongly as it has done.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1795	I have to start by thanking you for the visit to Grøvan's articles. The centre party is active in increasing the teacher's density and quality in school. But I have to update him on what the Central Party national meeting decided. The wording he referred to has changed to the fact that we want to further develop the teaching standard. The Christian People's Party and the Center Party have come together in several cases, and as far as the teaching norm is concerned, I can also refer to a written question where I have tried to get to the bottom of how much effect the teaching norm has had on teacher's density. Another example is the six-year reform and increased knowledge of school start-ups. In this year's budget unit, I am surprised that the Christian People's Party is taking part in research funds to sign the Advance Party. It is obvious that the Christian People's Party must swallow large camels to keep the government shot floating. Is there no limit to what the Christian People's Party will find itself in to sit in government? Or is the Christian People's Party in agreement with the Center Party that the research funds should have been increased rather than cut, all the time we've been affected by containment and infectious measures in the last year?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1802	With regard to the attitude of the Centre Party towards the teaching norm, they were also the party that chose not to support it when it was introduced by budgetary decisions here in the Stortinget. What is contained in the phrase ‘further development’, I do not know, but if they have come up with better thoughts, they are cordially welcome to it. When we see how many new years of teaching we have received, there is no doubt that fewer students per teacher give a different day of school for each teacher. There is a call in the Norwegian school to get more resources, and we have also been able to answer that. When we look at the investment this government has had in research, I'm not in doubt that we can be proud of the increase we've made over these eight years. There has been a significant investment in research in all areas, and we have managed to meet the objectives. The plans we have made have, in my opinion, been with and described the objectives in a very good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1809	It was a bit funny that the representative talked about families controlling themselves. Then I have a good news: a week ago it was one thing that lesbian couples have used partner donation, one woman in the couple is going to give birth to a child from one egg from the other. I know that the Christian People's Party sold itself to try to stop a modern biotechnology law, but the Christian People's Party lost, which is very good for women and crooks throughout the country. Once the Christian People's Party has sold itself, they have sold themselves, for example. to cut Emilie's glasses in eleven years, which have glasses with strength minus 11.7. The government has also cut the AAP for the sick and the poor. What does the representative of the Christian People's Party think that the inequalities have risen every year the party has ruled the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1817	Let me first say that in terms of the biotechnology law, what's modern or not, I think we can agree that we have a slightly different view of that. We have a slightly different starting point than what the representative here says. When it comes to the issue of inequality, it's like a society where the differences are small is a community that builds together. It is a society that contributes to high trust in Norwegian society. We are committed to being able to participate and contribute to the fact that the small differences should still be the picture that characterises Norway, and when we compare ourselves with other countries, we see great differences in that. But we recognize that there have been increased inequalities. Therefore, it has been important for us to increase the amount of child benefit, increase the amount of cash, contribute to the one-off support, extend the free core time in kindergarten and SFO, and in this way be involved in and contribute to targeted actions to just hit the people who are being hit.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1824	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1829	There are still almost 200,000 total or partial unemployed in Norway. There are twice as many people as before the Korona crisis. Hopefully, the infection situation will improve, but there will be many more people out of work and many more who will need help to get back to work. In March, the government informed that there were about 140,000 people who were defined to be at risk who could have problems getting back to work. But only one in ten of these received an offer of follow-up in any other form. The working party knows it is difficult to be without a job for a long time, both economically and healthily. Many of the 140 000 lack skills and work experience, and many need health care and follow-up. The revised budget states that the government should include more people in the labour market and that there is a need for action aimed at those with low education, young people and immigrants. It's easy to agree with. The needs are high, but by comparison: in 2013, the proportion of unemployed persons participating in labour-oriented measures was about 50 pst. higher than today. It says something about the effort for those who fall outside. It does not help with the fine words; it is budget and action that counts. The measures we see today are quite puzzled and little accurate. The only new measure that the right-wing government has come up with is a job tax deduction for those in permanent employment – i.e. a rewritten version of their usual tax cut. It's a spider's game. The idea is just as bad now as when Erna Solberg referred to it as a little old-fashioned Right-wing policy in 2013. We've had one of the biggest crises in the country in many years. The Labour Party has spent the money securing people and businesses. The schemes were greatly improved – not by the government, but by the Stortinget. This has been necessary, and it may also be necessary after 1 October, when several of the arrangements change back to what was before the Koron era. When the number of young people on disability benefits has doubled on the right-hand side of the government, and when the availability of young people is high, the alarm clocks should ring. More and more appropriate measures need to be put in place. In our alternative to the revised budget, we are proposing measures to create more jobs, by increasing the support to the companies that have been hard hit by the disease prevention measures, by 0.5 billion. kr. Similarly, we are increasing the appropriations for the municipal schemes. We're also proposing $12 billion. SEK in investment aid for new green jobs. To help more people work, we have 5,000 more job vacancies, with a particular focus on wage subsidies, qualification grants and several Nav employees to get a closer follow-up of those who are out of work. It is necessary when we hear that some guidance counsellors in Nav will follow up on over 100 people. It is difficult for a single Nav employee to give proper guidance to one person, to ensure that there are proper measures, to try out the labour market, and to provide the necessary health care. Just as important as helping people get back to work, it's tightening up the legislation, so that the growth that's coming gives them whole, permanent jobs. We don't need any more temporary employment and more renting. That's why the Workers' Party is quite clear on this, and we're going to propose it – if we get into government – in our first 100 days in government offices. Although the labour market is improving, stronger efforts are needed to get people back to work. It is equally important that the crisis measures taken by the Workers' Party when Norway was shut down last for as long as the crisis lasts. Here, the government is very much responsible for monitoring the evolution of the labour market and for being ready to extend the new transmission system requiring new measures. The regulatory competence of the government must be used if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1850	The last year and a half has been a year that will be written into the history books – the year Norway was thrown out in the biggest crisis in our generation. Fortunately, we have had a government and a prime minister who has run safely through the Korona crisis. I am proud of the job the government, with Erna at the helm, has done in an incredibly demanding period for the country. The government is also given good guidance from others, the OECD and the IMF, who believe that strong policy measures, active fiscal policies and higher oil money use have contributed to limiting both the infection and the economic downturn. It has been right to do so to provide people with security and to help companies in crisis through the pandemic. The option would be more bankruptcy and more leave. Norway is among the countries that have come out of the pandemic best, both economically and in terms of lost human lives, but that does not mean that this year has not been very demanding for many. But now it's shining. We open up – slowly, but safely and within secure frames. Good news comes on a continuous basis: the availability goes down much more than expected. From more than 400,000 total or partial unemployed at the highest level, in April last year, 171 200 jobseekers were registered on 15 June. That's the lowest level in the pandemic. 250,000 more have returned to work, and only since Easter has the unemployment rate been reduced by 40,000. Exports are going up. The oil price is now over $70 in the barrel. It's a sign that the world economy is on its way up, and that means a lot to our open economy. With still low interest rates and more back to work, the activity of the economy at home can generally be absorbed. If there's something this pandemic has taught us, it's the value of private jobs. Several have been involved: nine out of ten lay-offs have been from private businesses. The new jobs need to be created in the private sector, and the Norwegian economy needs more legs to stand on. We need jobs that contribute to the state budget and that pay for well-being. It is also a pillar for addressing the underlying challenges in the Norwegian economy in the future – that there will be fewer active ones to support the well-being of their shoulders. But first of all, we are going to provide security for the jobs of those who have worn through the coronary age, who are now trying to get back on track, who are now taking their employees back to work, and all those who have converted and tried to enter new markets. At the same time, there is great optimism in several regions. Many companies plan to hire more. In the first quarter, there were also record new business start-ups, over 20 000. Never have so many establishments been registered in one quarter. In many industries and in many places, there is a lack of competence and difficulty in recruiting the professionals needed. That's why we need a level of competence, so we're setting up decentralised education services where people can fill up while they're at work. We need to close the knowledge gaps. At the same time, we're also going to avoid people staying outside. When we want to make it even easier to start new businesses, create more smart, green jobs and a more sustainable future on the way out of the crisis, the state should be an initiator and inspiration for those who have the good ideas, creativity and will. Politicians do not have the skills to create jobs – let us realize that. We have entrepreneurs and a business life for that. Predictability, stability and security of framework conditions are essential for both families and Norwegian businesses – not a red-green experiment of which no one knows the content or consequences. As the leader of a Turkish business development company said in the context of a recent visit: a choice now, with the uncertainty it involves, is the last thing we need in the middle of a crisis for the country. On the right is the guarantee of stability and predictability, that businesses and ordinary families will not receive higher taxes, and that work for all is the number one job. The right is the guarantor that we will take care of our important export industries and tens of thousands of jobs across the country by ringing the EEA Agreement and ensuring access to all important markets, such as the UK. We're going to work together out of the crisis, we're going to get back to Norway, we're going to get people back to work, we're going to build skills, we're going to make green conversion, and we're going to create more, we're going to include more and not more taxes, because the Right never forgets that the values have to be created before they can be distributed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1878	It is important that the climate action we take in Norway to reduce greenhouse gas emissions is as cost-effective as possible. This way we can avoid people's tax money being wasted on animals and inefficient symbolism policies. The reality is that in Norway, forests cover enormous amounts of CO 2, corresponding to half of Norway’s CO 2 emissions. While Norway spends billions of dollars on poor climate action, forest CO 2 capture can be significantly increased at a much lower cost. This concerns, among other things: to facilitate increased forest planting, denser planting and forest fertilisation. While political Norway has for years chosen to use carbon-binding aid in tropical forests, once and for all Norwegian forest industries and cost-effective carbon-binding in Norwegian forests have been deprived. I am therefore extremely pleased that the Progress Party in the revision of the national budget agreement has achieved a positive impact on continued efforts to build value-added measures in the forest, among others. through the development of forest roads. I am also satisfied that the forest planting measure has been increased from NOK 1 and 20 cents to NOK 1 and 50 cents per plant. This will help to ensure that the year’s forest planting can be carried out in a good way. Unfortunately, it is a reality that Sweden has been better than Norway to put in place a complete value chain for the forest industry. Here we have a job to do, everyone. That is why I am very pleased that the Progress Party has received 25 million. kr to circular economy, and that we, who make up the majority today, point to Forestia and sewage treatment plants for returns as a project falling under the scheme. However, this is not about a single project or actor, but about the fact that the state has to play with the forest industry in order to put in place a larger value chain here in Norway. Forest-related value added can be increased by billions of dollars. I am genuinely apprehensive about what can happen if Norway – in the worst case – receives a red-green government after the election. There is no secret that the Arbeiderpartiet, SV and Rødt want to race Norwegian owners out of Norway. Nor is it a secret that the Central Party follows up with increased taxes on working capital in its proposal for an alternative state budget for 2021. So the centre party chooses to ignore the clear input of both the Norwegian Forest Association and Norskog that the tax on working capital must be removed. A study by the NHHS Consulting states that 63 pst. by persons with high economic wealth, a high degree of evaluation will be made of relocation from Norway if the Workers' Party receives a majority for increased taxes on wealth, and that 21 pst. of the wealth of Norway's richest belong to displaced taxpayers. The consequence of the Central Party’s policy is that more and more local Norwegian jobs are being owned from Europe, the United States and China. Indeed, Norwegian enterprises owned from abroad are dropping the central party's tax on working capital, while Norwegian jobs owned from Norway have to pay significant sums. The centre party thus provides Norwegian investors and entrepreneurs with the choice of leaving Norway for good and selling their work of life to foreign investors in Berlin, New York or Shanghai. This loses District Norway the most. The Government Parties have met in part with regard to taxes on working capital. In the budget agreement, we have received a majority comment that, in the context of the State budget for 2022, the government will present an assessment of whether the sum of taxes on wealth, dividends and corporate taxes on Norwegian jobs is competitive and assess concrete long-term tax measures that can make Norway a more attractive country for investors and entrepreneurs. I have clear expectations that the government will deliver on this crystal-clear order, and expect that the tax on working capital will be cut significantly in the government's proposals for the 2022 government budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1902	The speaker chair has begun to slow down, but it may be because it is approaching the end of a four-year period! Hopefully, we'll start approaching a situation where we're on our way out of the pandemic. It has undoubtedly been a difficult time. What's the danger in the situation we're now in is starting to freshen up the Norwegian economy. I feel that the representatives of the right-wing parties are trying to do just that – refresh the Norwegian economy in a situation where there are almost 200,000 unemployed, and with a trade balance that is dramatically reduced and worsened in eight years. If, in the future, we are going to take along a situation where oil and gas revenues will fall further, there is no doubt that financing for Velferds-Norway will be quite demanding if the direction of the right parties is allowed to continue the development of Norway. It is also alarming that they are trying to use the wealth tax in the major attack on the Workers' Party. Then they don't have much to talk about. Now they have been sitting for eight years by a majority in the United Kingdom – eight years – and yet they have not managed to remove the wealth tax. Why haven't they? Why haven't they just taken it away? Does it mean so little that they just talk about it and don't do anything about it? It's amazing. 16 B.C.E. kr the country entered in 2013. Then made Right this to his great cause. Now this year we're taking in about the same thing. There's been adjustments, yes, but why not just remove it? You can remove the property tax if that's what's so important, if that's what's the brake block, which chases Norwegian owners out of Norway, as the representative Ørsal Johansen said? It's bullshit! I do not know if it is a correct parliamentary expression, but if it is not, I shall withdraw it and say that there are valid misappropriations. There's a total lack of action based on its ideologically most important thing Right has shown over eight years. It's amazing. What it's about now, is actually to get hold of the big things, make sure that on the way out of the pandemic we still have the ability to help people and save the jobs to people, because there's a lot of uncertainty. Nor is it obvious how the situation is. Travel life is probably one of the industries that have worn out the most and still have a lot of uncertainty about it. It is good that something has been done, yes, but there should have been even better arrangements to restart travel around Norway, which is one of the most important district industries alongside agriculture, for example. It proposes the Labour Party in its draft budget, but we do not get a majority in favour of it with the right parties. This would have been absolutely necessary, not least given the existence of a travel strategy, a travel strategy which is not in any way followed by the economic measures taken. When it comes to further developing business, Rodum Agdestein's representative actually had a pretty good analysis. The state must, in partnership with the good ideas of business, facilitate the development of good ideas. No, it's not like we politicians are creating jobs, but we're facilitating private jobs. Then I am amazed that the only measure proposed directly in the revised national budget is to dismantle Siva as a tool to help the good ideas of the business community and of the private sector. Get it, whoever can. Fortunately, it was stopped, but the last time they were inside the tool to help the good ideas in private business, it was to dismantle Investinor. Both, Siva and Investinor, are important tools to develop the opportunities that private business, or private, brings, but where the state through both Siva and Investinor will be good partners to further develop business. It'll disassemble the government. After eight years, when we sum up the business policy of the right-wing government, it has zero credibility – zero credibility. They haven't lifted very many fingers, or made a lot of efforts to make the situation better, so that the private, good ideas will breed on the basis of the good partnership that should have been arranged between the state on the one hand and the private actors on the other. They have not even managed to remove the property tax. Even they don't have it clear in eight years. The business policy of the right-wing parties is falling after eight years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1917	As we know, we are living in the midst of a climate crisis and a natural crisis, and it becomes clear to more and more people that we can only grow further, that we can only have further economic growth, if that growth is compatible with the planet’s tolerance limits – otherwise it goes wrong, and eventually the growth stops itself. That's why we need a significant shift in our economy, from fossil to renewable energy-based economy and from use and waste to reuse, or, a little bit more precisely, from a linear to circular economy. The good news is that this has many others – business, capital forces, climate-stripping youth, engineers, technologists, skilled workers and more and more countries and organisations. The good news is that this is the way the world is going, and that means we need to understand how we turn our own economy into a world that is actually now taking both the climate and the natural crisis much more seriously than just a few years ago. It has a little bit to do with what we're going to do less of, and we're talking a lot about that. We're starting to take hold, even though it's too late and the emission cuts are too slow, but it's just as important to focus on what we're going to do more of, because there's a direct correlation between the speed of this conversion and what we in Norway can export more of when we export less of something else. One obvious example is that the more cars go on the battery, the less they need diesel and petrol, and the more they need batteries. It is also obvious that the more industry can use non-emission hydrogen instead of natural gas, both as a reaction agent and as a energy source, the faster the hydrogen demand will increase and the demand for natural gas will decline. So this means that we're facing a very significant conversion into the Norwegian economy, a conversion we can handle with shine, because we're really well connected to succeed. But we in the Workers' Party are convinced that this will only succeed if we have a much clearer partnership between an active state, pointing the way, and an active business, that uses these opportunities in a good way. It's about drawing to us the start dates of all the new stuff. What is happening in our main market, the European Union, and not least in other leading industrial countries, such as the United States and Asian countries, is a quite formidable transformation of the economy and a very clear return to a stronger industrial policy, a stronger willingness to set the direction of industrial policy, direction of industrial policy, direction of value creation. The purely market-based logic is falling. Now there's a new balance that shows up out there. Therefore, very many of the proposals we have put forward in the revised national budget, precisely proposals that combine strong ambitions to move faster towards a reusable economy, a circular economy, faster towards an energy shift, faster changes in what we export, with a clear commitment to industry. It's an industrial pilot 4.0 for the industry. These are green fleet renewal measures. This is a further commitment to carbon capture and storage also at Norwegian incineration plants. It is not least about strengthening the equity of Statkraft in order to be able to build a national base hydrogen infrastructure, which we believe will be one of the most important energy carriers next to electricity as such in the coming years. So to succeed in all of this, we have to have an active state. We have to set direction. We have to dry out to set some clear goals that are concrete and operational, and we have to cooperate with the world out there. This really isn't the time to break the connections to our nearest market. On the contrary, in the Labour Party, we believe that we should build on what we already have – the EEA Agreement and all its existing agreements. We are now working closely with the European Union on climate change. That's good. I believe that we should build equal cooperation with the EU on what has to do with Europe's green giving, not least on the growth and industrial part of it, in order to achieve this. For the common denominator of all the opportunities now emerging for Norwegian business, climate policy in other countries, i.e. the willingness to change consumption, but it is also that we must have access to the markets to which we are going to sell. And I'm constantly amazed by those who want a quick transition to new export opportunities, but believe that at the same time we should undermine the basis for exporting to just those countries that might want the goods and services we can produce.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1932	Councillor Henrik Asheim [13:54:12]: When this summer is over, there will be a slightly special harvest for approx. 60,000 little six-year-olds. They're going to go into the schoolyard for the very first time. Some of them are going to buy a new bag or a new pen during the summer. Maybe she goes into that classroom who can frame the alphabet, and holds in her hand the new classmate, who may not know the letters completely yet. That is why we need a policy that is capable of raising each one and putting the effort in place early in school. Although high-ranking students are now completing secondary school, there are still more than 13 000 students who started in 2014, which six years later have not completed and are clearly the largest in the professional field. The lowest probability of completion is in any case if you have parents who themselves do not have any longer education. Social background not only has something to say about how it goes with someone in high school, it also persecutes young people into the university and higher education sectors. The higher education at least one of the parents has, the greater the proportion completing a degree. Of the students who have long-term parents, 77 are completed. one degree after eight years, while only 50 pst. of the students who have parents with primary education as upper secondary education have completed a degree after eight years. One of the main government projects is to create more and include more. Research and education are the absolutely most important tool for creating both new jobs, for having skilled labour, which in good Norwegian means that people have a relevant education that they need in their everyday lives, and for several of those outside the labour market to come in. Education is a cheek egg for a society like the Norwegian, but then there must also be a policy that gives basic knowledge early in school, giving students the opportunity to deepen what they are most interested in, and that education becomes available to everyone at all stages of life across the country. Over the years we have so far been in government, we have introduced a five-year master's education for teachers. We have called on math, Norwegian and English teachers to have their study credits in the subject if they are going to teach in the subject, and we have increased the recording requirements in order to get into the teacher's training. Then we have introduced new career paths in classrooms. We have done that because we know that the most important thing for students' learning is to meet a professionally up-to-date, motivated and committed teacher in the classroom. And this is going to give us results. Historically, many students complete higher education. Of those who started high school in 2014, 79.5 pst. completed in 2020. There's an increase of 7.6 percentage points compared to the coal that started in 2006. The students go out with a better average of 10th grade, and the grades increase most in those with parents without higher education. Our fourth- and fifth-graders are reading better. They're above the international average. Minority students read better now than they did in 2011. The proportion of unqualified teachers goes down for the second consecutive year, and since we got into government, about 4,500 qualified teachers have entered Norwegian classrooms. The number of qualified applicants for teacher training is increasing, from approx. 4 200 in 2011 to almost 6000 in 2020. Several teacher students complete as well. In addition, numbers show that several teacher students carry out in a normal time. There's a lot of ways to use statistics, but no one gets away that many arrows point in the right direction. At the same time, there are still challenges. Those challenges have not been reduced by the pandemic. Corona has had consequences for children and young people. Many have been far away from school and have missed important social and professional communities. Many children and young people go out of the pandemic with great knowledge gaps. One of the most important jobs in the future will therefore be to seal these knowledge gaps and ensure that we give children and young people the basics they need to master further education. That's why we have, among other things, priority money to municipalities to take back lost learning and dense knowledge gaps. In the future, we also know that we are going to need more skilled workers. That's why we've raised the colleges, but we're going to do more. Therefore, we must ensure that capacity is also increased, but that the quality of higher vocational education is followed. We're going to provide education throughout the country. That's why we've just put forward a strategy for decentralised and flexible education, so you don't have to move around to get it filled up in your everyday life. This is why we are going to ensure that higher education is more linked to the labour market, both by getting guest lecturers from business and public sectors, and also by increasing the number of places of practice, so that students can be out of work while taking education. Then we must continue to strengthen the research budgets, not least in cooperation with our countries of cooperation in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1947	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1952	During this period, this government has been able to push forward a centralisation of universities and higher education institutions. One has managed to increase the level of conflict in the sector, and then has a top-notch case with these state cheese mats. But now, the government has turned the tiles around, if we're going to believe in yesterday's press release from the Asheim State Council on a new strategy for decentralised and flexible challenge, which I'd like to say a little bit more to the right. Is this an admission that centralization has played a downside, and that there will not be a closure or a forced merger of several higher challenge institutions with this government in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1959	I think it's a little funny to be accused of having pushed through a structural reform in higher education, which the Workers' Party itself voted for. It was just about making sure that we got stronger professional environments, which means that for example. NTNU, which is a large institution, is no longer just in Trondheim, but is also at Gjøvik and in Ålesund. This is very important, because it means that you have professional environments – which can then develop exciting education across the country. The strategy we put forward yesterday is to use the technological possibilities of being taught while, for example, learning. are in full-time work or have a family, but it is also about strengthening e.g. our study centres around the country, which are important teaching places. It is also about establishing what we are proposing now, a district programme, which enables industrial enterprises, business clusters or, for that matter, municipalities to actually apply for money to order the training that their employees actually need. So this is no admission in any other way than a forward-looking policy to provide education throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1967	I wonder if the university and high school sectors will stand behind the forward-looking stance of the Council of State. Unfortunately, when it comes to the level of investment in the sector, there is little to write about. That's probably 130 million. kr, which is now promised for this bet, perhaps the Council of State is happy with, but it will be very little. For example, the high ball in Volda gets nothing from this pot. Then the next question is about the level of ambition of the Council of State. Is it so that it stops here, or does the government have more plans? For example, I'm concerned about how to get more scientific environments in the districts. One of the pitfalls with such a stake is that it ends up with professors in the cities, who teach and teach district students at Teams, and that one does not actually get the build-up of competence in District Norway. I would like to challenge the Council of State to reflect on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1974	If all we had done in decentralised and flexible education, what we did in RNB now, I would take the criticism. But we've actually announced well over 1 billion. kr to newly applied continuing training schemes throughout the country. Now I'm not going to take the freedom to talk on behalf of the higher education sector. I don't think anyone should take the freedom to do that, because they talk very well on their own. However, the fact that we have both created much more study places and that the budgets are much larger is quite noticeable. But we also have some expectations of the fact that almost 40 billion. Every year, public budgets are passed on to these institutions, that is, to respond to society's needs, and that education is no longer just about the 19th, 20th and 21th year, but about adult people with family and jobs who also need a little extra supplement. We also have great ambitions for the next four years, and we are counting on that to be trusted on 13 September.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1983	Governments want to create new lucky places to study, according to VG this week. The experience from studies in the coronary age is many, and not all are positive. While the headmaster of the University of Bergen is concerned that the council will save money, I'm concerned about two things. Firstly, with regard to the decentralised study location structure we have in Norway, will the Council of State digitize this rather than maintain a decentralised study location structure? Secondly, does it really not worry the Council of State, what seems to have been a dramatic increase in the number of students with mental health disorders in the last semesters? More digital education is not the answer to the challenges many students face right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1992	I'm going to honestly admit that when I suggested this, there were some people who were stalled because they thought that what I was now enthusiastic about was more lectures on Zoom. It's not. This is really about being able to provide education. First of all, I think it's very important that it's a voluntary digitisation and not a forced digitization, which we've had to do in the last four years. The second is that this is not primarily about study structure; it is about everyday life for people. I've had the pleasure, when we made this strategy, to have hearings all over Norway and have met adult students who are just taking advantage of these offers. And what are they saying to me? They say the first thing they need is they have to be able to combine this with maybe a partner who's working, they're working themselves, and they might have children, and at the same time they want to get that education. Someone I met lives in Harstad. She works in kindergarten, but takes kindergarten teacher training at the University of Tromsø. She does it decentralised, and then she has some collections in Tromsø en route. That's the simple way for her to get that education in place. That's what I want more of, and not what we've been in during the Corona era now, because it's been bad both for the students and for the study community.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e1999	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e2006	Vetle Wang Soleim [[H]] The worst thing is that we are already seeing examples of companies that are already in fact implementing partial generation change in fear that SV's inheritance fee will be released alive. Although SV shouts yes and the Workers' Party says that they have no plans to reintroduce an inheritance fee, the reactions of industry are the real measure of how it is perceived externally. In any case, many in the business community do not believe that the Workers' Party's resistance to a reintroduction of the inheritance fee will last a very long time if they get a majority, and if they then become dependent on SV. A few weeks ago, the Silver Trans Founder of Ålesund, Roger Hallebakk, carried out a partial generation shift, just in fear of what could happen if the parties of the left side were given a majority. It's already happening. When SV opts for such a radical and additional proposal for inheritance tax as they do, only a little of it will be enough to damage the development of Norwegian business. For what happens if the next generation does not have money on book or money to pay SV's inheritance tax? Then they either have to take up a loan or sell themselves down to release funds. It weakens family ownership and the long-term lines, and one can bring in foreign owners without the same concern for businesses and their communities. Such a policy is harmful to Norwegian business, Norwegian ownership and the family-owned enterprises. I also talked to family-run hotels who said that this grip would be a disaster for a new generation change. Owners go around thinking about what will happen if one day they get a stone in their heads and the next generation can't afford to pay SV's inheritance fee. Finally, to the representative Terje Aasland: if our industrial policy falls to the harvest, it is a very bad thing, because then the country is left almost without it. In any case, it is not an industrial policy that is good. What we are left with is a government that wants more state ownership, and a government that guarantees that Norwegian owners will get more tax, and that foreign owners will get it as well as today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e2017	The Labour Party's speakers before me have presented in a good way our alternative, which addresses our main challenges that the country faces: 2.8 billion. kr to get too many unemployed people back to work as soon as possible, a well-being lift of 2.6 billion. kr, a starting point for strengthening well-being and combating growing differences, putting ordinary people first and a green industry package that cuts climate emissions and creates jobs. I'd like to say a little bit about the political situation after eight years with a civil majority. We remember all the presentation of the budget unit last December. It reminded me more of a divorce than a reunion after the Progress Party had left the government. As with some divorces, it seemed that it was as important to bother the other party as finding solutions they could stand by. Now, when the agreement on the revision of the budget was to be presented, the government parties did not even meet. The Prime Minister's great political project, to gather the four parties on the right into a governing government, is thoroughly shattered after these eight years. The government's parliamentary basis has confused the hands of the Prime Minister. If anyone remembers any longer until the fall of 2013, the four parties agreed on a goal of making the Norwegian economy less oil dependent. The result is that the Norwegian economy has become more and more dependent on oil revenues year after year. Grandsister Right has been completely incapable of holding back. No government has been mercenaryed into the Stortinget like this in the last year. The authority is gone. This time, too, the oil fund was the solution, not only to the necessary corona measures, but also to fill the income gaps that the tax cuts have created in the revenue side of the State budget. Perhaps the most serious thing that remains after this government in these years is that employment has fallen. So from being at the top, we're now going to be the score slot. Year after year, revenue in the country has been reduced and expenditure has increased along with the differences. There's almost something biblical about this. In the Gospel of Matthew it is described: ‘For him that hath shall have, and for him that hath, shall have abundance. But whoever has not is to be deprived even of what he has." Weak groups have experienced being deprived of support they needed. What remains as the legacy of this government are increasing differences between people, lost opportunities to address the major challenges we are facing, a political void and a regional reform no one understands.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e2030	With the Right in Government, we are going to create more and speed Norway up again, and we are going to strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian business. That's why we've combined reduced taxes and charges by 34 billion. kr. I think we all share the objective that those with the widest shoulders should bear the heaviest burden and that they should contribute the most. But we have to do it wisely. Taxes on working capital, on tractors, on machinery and on warehouses are unwise. First, it does not matter whether you go in profit or in deficit. Secondly, the tax blocks successful business ventures that can be worth a lot on paper, but where the values are theoretical and unrealized at best. It devastates them for capital that should have gone to secure jobs and create new industrial adventures. Thirdly, this tax on working capital is distorting competition. It is paid only by Norwegian owners and gives a large competitive advantage to foreign companies. It can't be like that, and that's why this tax has to go down further. More of the capital of society must be turned over to create jobs and values. Therefore, we have increased the tax on secondary housing and lowered it on working capital. This twist should continue. In order to achieve a business-friendly Norway, we also need a fair Norway where all relate to the same rules and pay taxes where values are created. Therefore, it must be a priority task to combat tax evasion and aggressive tax planning. The Government has therefore introduced, inter alia: the rule of interest limitation and withholding tax on interest and royalties, which limits the possibility for companies to use artificially high interest rates to move profits abroad and thus reduce their tax position in Norway. In the future, we also need to monitor developments and consider several measures to avoid unfair competition in favour of Norwegian jobs. With the right, we're going to lower the tax on what we want more of, that is, value creation and work, and we're going to intensify the measures against what we want less of, which is profit-moving and tax avoidance. Everyone is going to contribute according to ability, and everyone is going to contribute where the values are created, while we're going to treasure wisely, no more. With the Right we're going to create more and get speed on Norway again.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e2043	The results are what counts, but the SSB figures show that the three most important results for the country's economy and future go wrong. The most important thing for us in the Labour Party is, of course, that people have work, but over the last eight years it has become an increasingly smaller part of our people who have work. And in my own constituency of Hedmark there are several municipalities where there are actually more than 40 pst. of the working-age population outside the EU, the figures refer to the Statistical Central Bureau. Differences between people are increasing. There are more workers, including: those who do crucial jobs in cleaning, serving and construction, who have less to buy milk and bread for today than they had ten years ago. Norway’s deficit, excluding oil and gas exports, is increasing. It's growing year by year, and it's coming in a very daunting way to affect our ability to have elderly care, nursing homes, proper community health care and education, unless we get up the export income from the mainland industry. Despite this, that it's going in the wrong direction year after year in the three most important areas, it's still something that makes me very optimistic, and that's when I'm out talking to people. Because it is now a strong desire for a new course for our country. During the day I talked to a lady who has a long experience in working life. Then I said that after eight years of increased differences, privatisation and more to those who have the most from before, we believe that it should now be the turn of ordinary people. She replied in cash: I could have told you this years ago. That was very well said, because the statistics from the SSB and the people's wisdom are connected. People see that this development is crazy, and that is not what we want for a fair and social democratic Norway. The results are what counts. It was former Prime Minister Gerhardsen who said. Today's prime minister has to find another slogan on the election poster, because if not, it's clearly in conflict with the documentation that we get from the SSB year after year. I say like the lady I talked to, with a lot of experience from work: we could say that years ago. But now is the turn of ordinary people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e2066	The greatest inequality in our society goes between those who have a job and those who don't have a job to go to. The vast majority of those who have been or have been on leave, or have lost their jobs, are employed in private companies across the country through the pandemic. That is why we need to facilitate the creation of new jobs in the private sector, and that as much as possible come back to the jobs they had before the pandemic hit us. The inequality debate is often reduced to a discussion of taxes and taxes. However, a significant part of the distribution is determined in the markets before taxes and charges enter. In combination with good welfare arrangements for those who need it the most, the most important thing we can do is to keep inequalities down to ensuring a well-functioning labour market and a competent workforce. Right-wing policy is about doing something about the causes of inequality and exclusion, not just with the symptoms. We believe that preventing major inequalities in society is about ensuring more knowledge in school, better integration, helping those who are going out of work again, and giving business framework conditions that make them dare to bet. A diploma or a diploma in the hand is the ticket into the workplace. One of our heart issues is to ensure that as much as possible is completed and passed through high school, and the work begins to produce results. New numbers show that the completion is at 79.6 pst. national, which is more than 7 percentage points better than in 2013. In concrete terms, this means that over 5,300 more students completed in 2020 compared to 2013. We must continue to have targeted arrangements for those who need the welfare society the most. Good opportunities and good living conditions for all are not the same as equal life, but it contributes to equal life. We want everyone to be able to succeed in Norway, and everyone who has fallen out for different reasons will have another chance. I used to work at a qualification center for refugees in the introduction program. I have no figures on how many conversations I have had with frustrated participants who have either joined a group of participants who can much less and learn a little slower than themselves, or vice versa. Therefore, I believe that the changes we have made in the law of introduction with rapid tracks and extended time for those who need it are good changes that take the participants seriously. Being able enough Norwegian is absolutely essential to get a job and to feel like part of the Norwegian community. Finally, some batches will investigate alternatives and scrap the EEA Agreement. Normeka AS is a corner stone company in Rømskog Aurskog-Høland with 27 jobs. It's an apprentice enterprise, and they have approx. 60 million. kr on the market. They themselves say that they are totally dependent on the EEA Agreement to sell light masts to airports around the world, with the EU as their main market. How many district jobs, for which the 27 at Rømskog, will these parties create uncertainty? The right is the guarantor of continuing EEA work, and our job number one is to facilitate creating more and including more.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e2083	My grandfather has taught the whole genus that he is stronger than the twig that bends than he who breaks. For me, it has been the leading thing for my political function. There must be a count of the results. Today, when I took part in my last vote after having jobs that have jumped out of this house for almost 12 years, I am pleased that the vote contributed to a new breakthrough for the electorate of the Progress Party through a budget agreement on the civil side. The power and influence of the party of progress are always going to go through cooperation there. For too long, the situation in Norway was that civil plurality led to worker party government. It's over. In the last twelve years, the contribution of the Advance Party has been that a majority of the city elections have actually given a bourgeois government. It's turned out to be a good place. I'm unlikely to be proud that we've used our weight to carry out the biggest tax cuts in my lifetime. I'm unlikely to be proud that the Progress Party in the Ministry of Transport gave a historic boost to the transport sector, built new ones, stuck to what we had, and, not least, made sure that for the first time in more than three decades – 30 years – we reduced the maintenance run in the sector. We provided the basis for food production throughout the country. Young farmers got intent on investing their own money in their own food production. Optimism became involved in forest nutrition. I am unlikely to be proud that new activity has been triggered on a Norwegian base, because it provides jobs and income for generations to come. It provides the basis for growth and well-being while ensuring thousands of jobs in a demanding time for the country. So I'm unlikely to be happy that we've made a difference between cancer patients in the country through the introduction of the package sequence, because it does something as rare as saving lives. It's not every day politics do it. The same applies to the escalation of work on mental health and the curtailment of hospital cows. In total, we have achieved greater freedom for people to make their own decisions through deregulation, reform and efficiency improvements. The budget line on the civil side is therefore something that we must continue after the elections. Since this is my last post, I would like to send a short thank you to many – first of all to my party, who have given me infinite trust, Erna and Siv, who made a 31-year-old meat cleaver to the Council of State, the government of many departments, they added to the Stortinget, my colleagues for 20 years in the Advance Party, political competitors for hard battles, my comrades in the Right, Left and Christian People's Party, but most importantly, the voters who gave me the most important thing they could – say vote in elections. This house ignites unbelievably with respect. I would like to thank you for the opportunity to provide services from the most important public chair in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e2097	In the post-reopening period, much was about supporting the most vulnerable groups, those who have been particularly affected by the pandemic, those who have lost important daily services, those who have had to — and in some cases still have to — remain isolated, those who have had to wait for important treatment because the capacity of hospitals has been detonated. The negative results are significant and long-term. They hit both physically and mentally. And for many people the difficult time won't be over even when society opens. They'll need help for a long time. I want to give the government some credit for the follow-up to health freedom so far. It took a little too long for volunteering to be supported, and there were help packages that did not meet the organisations. But when the aid first came, in the form of support schemes on which the volunteer himself was able to determine the scheme, many organisations were given the means to convert the work and help more people. The question is how the government will look after the organisations and vulnerable groups in the future. In a recent study carried out by the Foundation Dam among 105 voluntary health organisations, 66 pst respond. that they have problems meeting the needs of their members. 90 pst. the funds from the programmes under which the Foundation has run have been of great importance to the authorities. Nevertheless, we see that the government is now stepping down the health-free incentive programme. This is a programme that supports corona-related projects in the broad field of health freedom and has met the needs of organisations well. The crisis is too many not over with the last vaccine stick. For a long time, society will face major challenges in helping those who need it the most. That job we have to combine with volunteering, and it needs our support in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e2108	Today, we are probably dealing with a civil union for a long period of eight years. When we raise our eyes in an election year and make up the status since the government change, I am proud that we have taken Norway in the right direction and have better equipped ourselves for the future. When I listen to the representative Sandtrøen and the Workers' Party's description of reality, I find it difficult to understand where they're getting it from. I could have made a lot of progress, but I'm going to focus in particular on the field of education and research, which has really been one of the Right and Government's fields of action. Although this is a budgetary debate, it is primarily about the possibility of policy giving individual people. Recently, we got new figures for completion in secondary education, which has increased from about 72 pst. to 80 pst. It's worth celebrating in itself. Over these years, one out of five people has gone from one out of five to one out of six who leave primary school without being able to read and write properly – move in the right direction, which really means a lot to the individual, but also to the whole community. We have adopted a standard of manpower, strengthened the standard of education and put in place a framework plan for increased quality and more learning through play in kindergarten. There are now 4,800 more teachers in primary school, where 4,100 work in primary and middle school. So we've trained 47 000 teachers, and we've put 1,200 teachers' specialists around the municipalities. Soon we'll see new master-educated teachers three out in the classrooms. So thanks to admission requirements and professionally strong students, there are more people who complete and become teachers. Our kids meet more and more teachers with professional depression, thanks to skills requirements and our efforts. There is also something to be pleased about, and not least about, the fact that we have been given vocational education and training, which is now taking increasing place in higher education. Several thousand student homes, eleven months of study support and many thousands of places of study are other important initiatives. And the list is so much longer. It makes me very proud. We have raised Knowledge Norway and rusted society so that we are better able to meet the future and the unknown. The fact that we have succeeded in this area means so much to the individual children and to the individual student and their way forward in life. With this curtain, it's good to take the opportunity to thank me and for eight event-rich and fine years here at Stortinget. Thank you to all my co-representatives for good debates and instructive experiences together. Thanks to all the employees here at Stortinget, who are on our side all the time. Thanks to everyone in the government for good cooperation, and then especially to Jan Tore Sanner, Torbjørn Røe Isaksen, Henrik Asheim, Iselin Nybø and Guri Melby, with whom I have been working a little bit more closely. And not least thanks to my party colleagues, who have given me confidence and opportunities. It has been a real honor to follow these for so many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e2121	When one goes through the state budget and compares from this period, the parties in the Storting are to recognize. Right is still a special interest for the wealthy. The Christian People's Party and the Left are popular support wheels, and the Progress Party is still an outer party on the right. If you look at what this government has achieved, there is a society with increasing differences and more privatisation, cutbacks and unsocial reforms that affect the lives of the elderly, disabled and unemployed – and the richest have their tax cuts. If we look at what the games will do in the future, that's more of the same thing. So it's good that the other party is also going to recognize. The Labour Party has always focused on the big challenges we have to solve: a safe job for everyone, a stronger welfare state, no matter who is and every cage, and a fair climate policy that cuts emissions and creates jobs. It's also our line in this revised budget, and it's our promise to the voters in the fall. The working party can never accept that unemployment is getting stuck and that more people are being pushed out of work permanently. Policies must help create jobs. Those who do not have a job need better follow-up and support to get to work, and we need to make sure that the jobs that are created are sound, stable settings in a safe and serious working life. Crisis policy must be fair, and it must last for as long as the crisis lasts. This is evident in our budget option. We propose a power package for work for all. Then we will need more resources for the community that has been so important through the pandemic: our public well-being – health care, schools, kindergartens. We prioritise money in the budget to take back lost learning and to ensure new mastering and cohesion within sport, volunteering and culture. We are concerned that the government does not take into account the seriousness and the need for a new and more comprehensive green policy, which sees climate change and increased value creation in the whole country in a context. Greenhouse gas emissions are not going down fast enough. The trade deficit is increasing, as the Sandtrøen representative has presented us in an exemplary way today, while our trading partners are resetting the price to cut emissions. Consequently, priority must be given to green industry, as the Labour Party does in this budget through a green industrial package. The challenges lie ahead in the 2020s. It's only in common that we'll be able to meet them. The challenges cannot be left to each individual or to the market alone. We get to more together than each of us. We have now had eight years with a government that has given more priority to those who have the most of them. Now it must be ordinary people's turn.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e2138	The right has run Norway safely since 2013 with Erna Solberg as Prime Minister. Over eight years in government, Right has prioritised knowledge in school. We have reduced health cows and given greater freedom of choice. Investments in transport have increased by over 80 pst. And the smell of asphalt is good news for both people and business. We have led the country through the oil crisis, the refugee crisis and now the coronary crisis. It has been a demanding year, but the government has shown its power of action and has guided us safely through the pandemic. Now, together, we're going to get out of the crisis and get back to Norway. Fortunately, more and more people come back to work, but there are still too many outside. So we have to create more and include more, because the biggest differences go between those who have a job and those who don't. This is why inclusion is so important, with a recognition that diversity pays off. It is the employers who sit on the key to a working life with room for all, but they need measures to reduce the risks of the employer. Therefore, we have prioritised wage subsidies and significantly increased the level of labour market measures. Youth efforts have been and are important for the government, and there is now a stronger interaction between health and work through the IPS Youth action. If we are to include more, we need to strengthen the interaction between the public and private sectors. Our common well-being depends entirely on the creation of jobs in the private sector. These are jobs that pay for hospitals, schools and the well-being that balance differences. The left side is clear that they want more state: Nav will have more tasks and actors to ban the manning industry. At a time when we rely on politicians to prioritise wisely, the left-hand side will spend money on cleaning up ideological bargains and giving less freedom of choice. This is bad news for people, business and welfare. A good example from real life is ASKO's collaboration with Manpower to get more professional drivers. Manpower has untraditionally searched for female candidates, in an industry that is largely human dominated. By training their own drivers they can look for personal characteristics, because customer service has become an important part of their competence. 14 people have recently taken the theory and drive-up and will soon take their first drive as a holiday week for ASKO. When the summer holiday is over, Manpower has professional drivers available in a market that screams at that competence. In the work of including more, we need more cooperation, not less. A society with room for all is not created by the state alone; it is created in the interaction between public and private actors. Right is the party that guarantees freedom of choice, and that sees the value of private business. Together we're going to take Norway out of the crisis, and with Erna at the rudder we're going to speed Norway again.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e2155	The government's strategy to take Norway safely out of the coronary crisis is to create more and include more, and in order to achieve that, we need to do what we can to secure jobs and revenues for the individual and to secure the ability of the municipalities to provide good services. In the revised national budget for 2021, we are strengthening the municipal sector further. The money shall be used to cover additional expenditure on lost income as a result of the pandemic in the second half of 2021 and to support local business as a result of the pandemic. The government thus encouraged the local government to continue to provide students with good education, to provide good health services to the inhabitants, to further develop collective services and to manage the pandemic at the same time. We're going to get unemployment down and include more in the world of work. We must avoid that those who were unemployed during the coronary crisis are standing still and standing out outside of work. There is a need to provide a specific framework for industry, such as tourism, nightlife and transport, and to address those with low education, young people and immigrants. We shall contribute to new growth, transformation and innovation and facilitate the creation of more jobs throughout the country. And we're going to take extra good care of those who've had it hard through the crisis. We shall put in place additional efforts for the lone elderly, young people who are violent and perpetuated, supported children and young people with mental health challenges, promote integration and close knowledge gaps in education. We must ensure that more people complete further education and that more people are given the skills that tomorrow's work and business needs. Our government has run the country well so far in the crisis and is well equipped to meet the challenges ahead. In the period after 2013, several children have had their place in kindergarten. The results in the base ball have been better. The period of time spent in the protection of children has been reduced. There have been more and more qualified additions to health and care services. And several elephants have passed the further training. The government presented its perspective statement in February. The Communication discussed key challenges for the Norwegian economy, for public finances and for the continuation of the Norwegian welfare system in a long-term perspective. In the years ahead, the room for action in the State budget will be reduced. There are several older people, which will increase the cost of health care and pension payments. For municipalities, this will mean growth in expenditure and an increase in labour demand within the sector. At the same time, there will be fewer working age, which means that the growth of tax revenue will be reduced. The opposition's response to these challenges is an increase in taxes, and not a new reform should be implemented in the local government sector to meet these challenges. It's just reversal reforms we're hearing about today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e2176	When I listen to the debate, it's basically a nice and good debate that shows the difference between who's in charge. I am very pleased with the years that the Advance Party, along with the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, has ruled both inside and outside government. What shakes me is when I hear that now is the usual people's turn. I know a lot of common people. I am glad that the first thing we got done in the government was to introduce the package for cancer. Unfortunately, like you sitting here, I know several people who are hit by cancer. Someone's made it, someone's not made it. There are three out of four in my close circle, including my wife – someone has gone away. The common thing for all of them was that they really appreciated knowing what happened when. My wife's alive. I think it's sad when you value so little. I also know common people who have mental challenges, especially after the pandemic. They're common people, so I'm very happy that we're getting the package sequence there as well. I am very pleased with the impact we have received in the revised budget for a special strengthening in mental health. I am very pleased that the Advance Party, together with the government parties, got rid of the strange tax on non-alcoholic beverages. There are ordinary people who run breweries and who want to compete on equal terms. I am not so concerned about whether there will be a few dollars cheaper for the consumer, but ordinary people who have been out of work for a long time have now come in –unskilled, ordinary people. I am very pleased that we had removed and deleted the toll for the Presterødbakken in Tønsberg. I register that the Workers' Party in Tønsberg believes that it was irresponsible. They say that for young people who are outside, it does nothing to help. Ordinary young people I know in Tønsberg, driving used petrol and diesel cars – there is 42 kroner to return every day. That's a lot of money for them. For me, it's important to make provision for ordinary people. I would like an answer to: are these people unusual? No, they're very common. We all have our story. I am pleased that we in the government and outside have managed to build more road safer, faster and better, so that more people can get to work safely, or even from work. These are common people – everyday stories. I know many people who have been maimed in traffic because there were bad roads, dangerous roads. They're common people. Finally, I would like to thank the government parties and my own party for having received the results we have received. We're going to take them with us, and there's a difference between who controls. The Labour Party and the opposition challenge the railway reform and road reform, which benefits ordinary people. We're saving society forever with money. In those periods, we're talking about up to 35 billion. kr that we can use on more, safe and safe roads. They're common people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e2195	I sat and listened to the contribution of the representative, Jon Georg Dale, and then you see what it is possible to achieve through good civil cooperation. So a big thank you to Jon Georg for the contribution he has made. This is the last budget debate in this flooding period. We're still in a pandemic, but society is reopened, and we can gradually take back a more normal everyday life. At the latest today, there are considerable reliefs and good news about reopening. The Coronapandemic has marked the budget in both 2020 and 2021. We can also see that from the revised budget we are discussing today. Within the transport sector, aviation and public transport have been particularly affected. In a situation where fewer journeys due to strict restrictions, foreign traffic has been almost entirely absent, naturally enough, and domestic traffic to a minimum. Despite this, it has been important to maintain a minimum of offers on both planes, buses and railways. It is also good to see that freight has worked reasonably well in a pandemic. People have been given the goods that are needed for everyday life to work. With so many in the home office, the digital infrastructure has also been tested and passed. Over the last eight years, we have doubled the transport budgets, and we are further strengthening this effort in the revised national budget. The initiative continues in the national transport plan, which was dealt with in Stortinget earlier this week. It has been absolutely necessary to significantly increase budgets and to raise the rate of transport to a new level. We build the country together with good and safe road, rail, air and sea transport and facilitate housing and value creation throughout the country. Better and safer infrastructure and reduced travel time make a difference for people and for business. But it's not enough just to spend more money. The money must be used sensibly. That is why we have implemented important reforms. The establishment of New Roads has shown that new thinking is possible, in a way that reduces costs and increases the benefits of projects. The rail reform has shown that the offer to travellers can be improved while reducing Community costs. We get more traffic for each of the heads we use. Here, there is an important distinction in policy. Where we are implementing reforms to improve and renew, the left-hand side will reverse. It is a poor strategy for both the customer, the citizens and the business community as well as for ensuring the long-term rational use of our common resources. A good infrastructure is important on the way out of the pandemic. We must create more, and then we must also build strong housing and labour market regions and build the country together. At the same time, the costs of mobility are important, and for those coming from the coast, it is also very gratifying that ferry prices are now being reduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e2216	In the revised budget, we clearly see the Workers' Party's recipe for longer health cows. An important invasion of the Workers' Party's alternative scheme is the removal of free treatment options. In addition, they have made proposals in the past that health professionals employed in public hospitals should not have private beesights targeting the same type of treatment. This means that doctors who want to work a little bit more and take away a little more patients who are waiting will not be allowed to do it. The result will be longer waiting times and queues for patients. The working party will also reduce input-driven funding and remove the cycle of mental health packages. With surgical precision, good patient rights that work are removed and provide better treatment and more predictability for patients. So Jonas Gahr Støre will take us back to the time when he last ran the Ministry of Health, with longer queues, more waiting and private treatment only for those who had a thick wallet. What's best for one person isn't always best for everyone else. That is why we have introduced free treatment options. Patients may choose from among public and authorised private treatments. It gives all patients the freedom to choose the treatment that is best for themselves, regardless of the size of the wallet. The bill is taken by the public. This has helped to reduce health cows by two weeks from Støre was Minister for Health and until the start of the coronary crisis. A public monopoly, as the red-greens want, forces a two-way sharing of healthcare. Without free treatment, only those who have good advice can buy themselves out of line. The policy of the left will mean freedom of choice only for the rich. The left-hand side does not want patients to have the freedom to choose treatment for themselves, and repeatedly sets the system in front of the patient. Ideology has become more important than the patient's best. The only person who loses is the patient. Without free treatment, patients must wait longer for treatment. The right will use available capacity in healthcare to reduce the number of health queues. The waiting time is shorter and more patients can be treated. In addition, I would like to point out that health care is weakened without the private actors. Without private and non-profits, we lose the opportunity to quickly increase capacity to avoid temporary peaks and cut waiting times. To cut the cooperation with the private is to weaken our preparedness. That's why I'm glad that the majority puts the patient first and does not liquidate free treatment options.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e2231	Marit Knutsdatter Beach [[Sp]] After almost four years at Stortinget, I have been given a backward look at how much is happening in the policy with the right-wing government at the head, without being knowledge-based. Ideology and structural reforms are government medicine, no matter what you suffer from. Major elements of private actors, competition and ranking should also make us better, visible at the latest at the last speaker. It gives a huge resource usage right out of the window when people have to spend time pissing on the elbows rather than working purposefully. The centre party will have back time and trust in professionals in the first line. Office craziness and reporting has to go down. Trust reform must take place, including in higher education and research. In the year's budget agreement, the government is failing the research once again by agreeing to research funds in conjunction with the Progress Party. The centre batch considers this to be contrary to what is needed after a long closure and infective restriction. Instead of cutting, the Centre Party proposes, among other things: Twenty million. kr extra to the Research Council as part of our proposal for a crisis package to create more activity. We believe that more research will contribute to the intrusive activity and knowledge of conversion we now have a unique opportunity to speed up. The centre party believes this would be a positive contribution after a tough year, for example. for research staff. Subject and research have not had as much activity as we had hoped. The transformation and rate of change in society also require more knowledge and research, not less. The centre party wants more activity and more funding for research projects. In an alternative state budget, we have made visible how we want to increase the basic funding of both post schools, colleges, universities and the institute. In addition, we are changing the facility of the funding system with better funding for the younger universities and multi-campus. Education institutions have never before been as concentrated in few units with as many distributed campuses as they are now. The high school assignment is being watered out, and the government is turning up the pressure on the water hose. The centre party is clear that students have had to pay a very high price for strict infection protection measures. They have missed the crucial social part of the study period in the last year. We'll pay for that with extra ear-marked funds for student welfare, for example. Student communities can draw funds from. In addition, we propose funds for student relations. Right tries to re-establish its credibility around decentralised education with a strategy, but it falls on rock floor after eight years without realizing it in practice. Instead of continuing centralisation, we must turn and build the country as before. The trade deficit must decrease, and knowledge and research must rise. The centre party is showing the way with our proposal for a revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e2244	Mari Holm Lønseth [[H]] We know that many young people who are out of work today do so because they have a mental health challenge. Too many people feel that they are not getting enough health care, or that it is too late. The longer you stand outside of work or education, the longer the road gets back. Therefore, it is important that we address the problems early and not allow small problems to grow. Strengthening child and youth psychiatry, more purchase of private treatment capacity, more for community mental health services are some of the initiatives that this revised national budget puts up for government parties and the Progress Party between them. It comes to the top of the fact that we have been working on and strengthening mental health care throughout the entire government period. Waitress has gone down. There are several lowthreshold services out in municipalities, and we also see a great boost in school health services, to mention something. But we also need more action in the future. Now all parties are talking about mental health, but for those who are struggling, it's not just helping to talk. Then you actually need help as well. Then it's quite surprising that all the parties on the left-hand side now fully agree that they want to remove the patient's right to free treatment. There are over 40,000 patients who have used this right. 4 out of 5 dollars in the scheme have gone to help people who need either drug treatment or mental health care. It is incomprehensible to me that when we need to use all the capacity to provide good treatment to patients, after some waiting times have also gone up, the left-hand side chooses to drop the private capacity. Or rather, that capacity is reserved for those who have a thick wallet and have the opportunity to pay for it themselves, as opposed to the wish of the Right and the rest of the bourgeois side, which is to give this opportunity to everyone, completely independent of the wallet. The reality is that with the Health Policy of the Workers' Party, we will have a two-part division of health services, where those who have good advice have the opportunity to buy past a growing health queue. It does not help to talk on the one hand about strengthening healthcare, when with the other hand you want to deprive patients of the right to choose more.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e2255	For the Right, it's important that no one remain alone with problems created by the pandemic. There is no doubt that vulnerable groups — among children and young people and otherwise — have borne a heavy burden under the pandemic. It concerns those with mental health challenges and those who have lost education and progress in school. These include low-income families who have lost income under the pandemic and vulnerable groups such as children in child protection. We have to assume that the consequences of the pandemic can have an impact on their future lives. This has been addressed by our government and the finance minister. The government has set a total of 900 million. kr in the revised budget for meeting these challenges, and in the government parties' negotiations with the Progress Party in the Stortinget there has been an increase. There are funds available to non-governmental organisations organising holiday trips to children and families who have not been able to afford it. Here are funds for Mental Health's help phone Parent support. Here's 15.5 million. kr to strengthen the capacity of family protection. This is $13 million. to strengthen the system of grants against violence and abuse. It's set at 250 million. a grant scheme to re-establish lost learning and additional funds have been allocated to those living in life-threatening areas. For the right, the most important approach is to treat the causes of inequality and not just to treat the symptoms. There's a big difference between those who have a job and those who don't. This is about completing high school, so you have an opportunity to get into work or create your own job. To the right, they dare to take action that works: to introduce absenteeism rules, to have competence requirements for teachers, to focus on school performance and student performance. Among those who started in secondary education in 2014, almost 80 pst. completed post-secondary education five to six years later, showing fresh figures from the Central Statistical Office. We need to help those who end up outside the labour market, once again, and not least provide a framework for business, which means that the business community dares to invest, and that businesses do not find it more attractive to fly out of Norway, because there will be no jobs. We need to create new jobs. Reduction of taxes on working capital is one of the means of getting more people to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e2269	The working party will spend the resources of the community on what gets more in work and provides greater well-being for everyone. Employment in Norway has fallen in recent decades. The unemployment rate after the coronary crisis has fallen at a very high level, and the Norwegian trade balance is weak. Those with large assets have received more, while many pensioners and low-paid workers have had less to pay their bills. We will create new jobs throughout the country and include more in the labour market. It is of course because our ability to finance the Norwegian welfare system depends on how well we succeed in employment and value creation, but also because it means so much for each of us to have a job to go to, for the quality of life, self-esteem and the wallet. Just the wallet is a location where people will notice the difference between the right hand government and a worker party government. We're not going to make the thickest wallets thicker. But I don't think we'll notice any particular difference in practice. Those who will notice it are ordinary people — families with children, pensioners and employees. This week we showed how people will notice the difference after 100 days with a new government. Workers will notice that we are going to lower the tax on those with low and middle incomes and that trade unions are going to get more tax deductions. Those who lose the job are going to get vacation money, and people aren't going to be thrown out of social arrangements because they're not finished. Families will notice that we are going to reduce the nursery rate, introduce free core time into the SFO for the first class and improve the system of children's glasses support. People in the districts are going to notice that we're going to reduce the ferry prices and lower the tax for those who have a long way to go to work. And we're going to make sure that the state stops taking over-prices for some services, like theoretical knowledge tests and change fees. Our alternative RNB and our goals for a new working party government show a clear new course for Norway. The Coronapandemic has come to the top of eight years of right-wing policy. It has given rise to increasing differences between people. We need to smooth out these differences and reduce them. We have fought for this through all our budgetary options here in Stortinget. Norway needs to become a more equitable society with well-being for everyone where we cut greenhouse gas emissions and systems for safe jobs. Now it must be common people's turn.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e2288	Michael Tetzschner [[H]] Those who had to believe that the Central Party would be a sort of more realistic edition in our party flora, I would like to listen carefully to Mr. Geelsvik's contributions today, because they will then be disappointed. The centre party often says that they are happy in Norway. In particular, the part of Norway that lives on transfers is happy with them. And then they're so happy in the poor institutions state and municipality. And they've completely forgotten what local business is up to. The representative Gegelsvik was challenged by one of ours on the property tax, which can bother even a district company. No, it was not accurate because the money was to be spent on handmen abroad. The only handlers I know about where it is invested Norwegian money is where it is done by the Norwegian State Oil Fund. That's never the alternative that a company is facing. Remember, we can say quite precisely that taxes on wealth are taxes on equity, and you don't get that working capital, you have to borrow it if you want to move on and expand, because we don't want them to run for state subsidies. We also do not want them to run for the creditors. It's punishable. So you don't understand the creative Norway when you talk like that. Then I have also noticed that the Centre Party does not have a pipe to say against the great centralization that the Workers' Party adds up to. They are going to dry dust from old, centralised, state-directed investment projects, as we know were subsidised money sluices, which caused huge losses to the Norwegian state because they are the last to change, the last to be innovative, often because there is great political prestige associated with seeing the truth in the eyes. I'm going to end by saying, and it's just as much for the Workers' Party: you ally with two anti-export parties. By that I mean two anti-EEA parties. Then you talk about safe jobs. But they are safe, not because they are subsidized by a rich country, but because they sell goods and services internationally for which there is demand.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e2301	Peter Frølich [[H]] Before the government took over, the Police Joint Alliance with 3,000 men stood outside on the grass and the strike. They fought against the government. Last year they went to the Prime Minister's office, but then they brought a cake, and it wasn't to throw at anyone; it was to eat the cake. It was certainly very good. We have had 4,000 new employees in the police case since 2013. If you try to imagine an average Norwegian football stadium, you can fill it with people who go to work every single day to keep Norway safe. The second image I want to use is the cop with a cell phone, an iPhone. It's not because it's fun to have seen isolated, but it's because the police officer can use that iPhone to solve crime on site – start investigating immediately. We have a police force that has got new and better equipment, new cars and experts in every police district in order to meet modern crime. The third image I want to use is of the yellow post-it note that was on the operating centre, and the red rubber boat, each of which became monuments of Norway's inadequacy to face terrorism. These monuments have now become floating new, modern operating centres all over Police-Norway and a new, modern emergency centre on Taraldrud. I was there on Monday, and I would like to send an invitation to everyone in Stortinget who has the opportunity to go and visit this centre. There are some parties that go around with speech points saying that Norway is not taking seriously the emergency, etc. After the visit to Taraldrud, I think many people will feel a need to tear those speech points into pieces. For no one leaves with the impression that Norway is not taking it seriously. Norwegian preparedness has never been stronger than it is now. The last image I want to use is the Worker Party's 1000-day reverse plan, which they presented yesterday. There was a lot to reverse, and we're almost going to take that as a compliment. That means we've got a lot. But notice one thing. There was nothing about justice policy, not a single point about justice policy, which was to be reversed. I think it's a confession from the Workers' Party that they lost that debate. They ran from the police reform when it started to storm. The only ones left are the Center Party with a belly pad of a promise to restore 20 loner offices.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e2314	Day of Pettersen [[H]] The right is concerned with financial accountability. At the same time, an exceptional economic situation requires exceptional measures, and therefore we rely on measures that stimulate short-term economic activity without tying up long-term investment. The government has set up volunteering and sport throughout the coronary crisis, and the revised national budget proposes new, significant increases in the cultural budget. The government's proposal involves an increase of close to 1.3 billion. kr. The total budget for 2021 would then be over 25 billion. kr. A large part of the increase is linked to the extension and strengthening of the support schemes for the cultural sector, the voluntary nature and sport resulting from the disease protection measures and the government’s reopening plan. Aggravated infection situation earlier this year has increased the need for support schemes in sport and volunteering than was originally foreseen. Therefore, arrangements are adjusted and extended to provide secure and predictable frameworks in a difficult time. The scheme benefits both sports events at national level and local and voluntary sport. The budget adopted today sums up the various aid schemes under the Ministry of Culture to a total of 4.6 billion. NOK 2021, and it's going to add up to $5.5. kr, which was granted for the same purpose last year. The total compensation exceeds 10 billion. kr. I would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that the government has found room to follow up our committee's remarks from the 10 million-dollar state budget. kr for the World Cup in Vikersund in 2022 and also additional funds for the Norwegian Sports Association in connection with the postponement of Olympic and Paralympic Games in 2020. I also want to mention that it is worth noting that the government parties and the Advance Party together have found fresh funds for, among other things. Norway Cup, Extremsportveko at Voss and X Games. It ensures their predictability during the pandemic. I will end by thanking the sport and the volunteer that have made clear demands and expectations for us politicians under the pandemic, but also good colleagues both in the Ministry of Culture, the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture and the Committee on Finance, because it is precisely in this interaction that we have found the good solutions for the sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e2325	Today I am so lucky to have a meeting as an alternate in Stortinget. By the way, I'm a little superhero, because I work with children and young people in the municipality of Gjesdal. And I know that there's going to be extreme expectations and goals about the quality of what I'm doing, from this pulpit. The challenge is when these are not in line with the frameworks of municipalities and county municipalities. The municipalities need more room for action to provide good services near people in all of Norway. It is about the most important thing for people: that it is enough awake to watch the school; enough safe imprisonment in the kindergarten; enough warm hands that have time at the hospital. It's about being able to prevent it instead of repairing it. The perspective message points to outreach as one of the greatest challenges in our society, and outreach must be prevented early. When the elephants fall out of the river, one in many cases will see that much could have been done before. In several cases, nursery teachers and nursery teachers will say that they have seen that this child needs closer follow-up from the very beginning. But one has no resources to do enough. Then the time and years go by without the effort being early enough or great enough, and for that child, that youth, and after that the adult becomes disastrous, but could in many cases have been avoided. Norway spends a great deal of resources on measures to repair, to simplify it, young people between 15 and 20 years of age. More specifically, we use between 60 and 70 billion every year in Norway. for young people who have already been struggling for too long. Of that sum, we use 0.14 pst. on prevention at the time we have the largest impact windows in the development of children, i.e. in kindergarten and early in the underfloor. We as society are forced to do the reverse of times in that resource use, both for society and not least for the future of the individual child. We have no choice. I am therefore pleased that the Central Party in its alternative budget proposes to strengthen the municipalities by 3 billion. NOK extra and SEK 1.6 billion. extra kr to county councils. For us, education and care can no longer be more effective. In that case, it will be terribly expensive.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e2338	In my last post, I want to record some trends that I see very clearly as I travel up and down between Oslo and Finnmark. In a sense, it is like moving between two countries — different, different at good and bad, but also part of the reality that constitutes the whole of Norway. It's a privilege to know all of Norway, which is absolutely recommended, so the advice for everyone here is: become familiar with Finnmark and North Norway. The downturn worries me. In my fishing weather, Havøysund, we have had long-standing relocations, but we have a fishing industry, EEA residents working there, and we finally got a king crab quota for our fishermen and have achieved some sort of fragile stability. Our advantage is a lot of fish available just outside the living room. And here's my point: our natural resources have to have ringing effects locally. They will always have ring-effects nationally, whether in the case of fish, oil and gas, minerals or wind power. It is essential that they produce greater ring-effects than today in each community. Therefore, quotas need to be allocated in such a way that the entire coast has these ring-effects. Therefore, the use of natural resources must yield financial returns to the municipalities that provide land for different activities each year, not just as a one-off payment. Another and decisive factor in maintaining the settlement in our northernmost state, and especially in North Troms and the rest of Finnmark, is to maintain and develop state presence. We have experienced a gradual and systematic bottling of state activities. I can mention that the Food and Fisheries Directorate no longer has its own regional offices in Finnmark, which is absolutely incredible when you see all the fish caught and processed in Finnmark. Tax offices are centralised and away from municipalities. The state administration in merged states can end up as a transfer of management competence and other professional competence – in our case from Vadsø to Tromsø. Finnmark has a border with Russia, the only part of Russia's long border that has been peaceful for ages. It's a condition that needs to be taken care of. Therefore, it is important to ensure that our northern area is populated, populated and a full part of the nation of Norway. We Finnmarkings have always been concerned with people-to-people cooperation between our two neighbouring countries, and it is not least important to address this post-corona epidemic. Also in Finland, the most important is peace and development. And with that I would like to thank myself in this important house.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e2353	I'm worried. We have a crew crisis in the health sector. It's health professionals who save our lives, who accept us when we're very sick, as I was. They're the ones that loose us through the pandemic. Now the government has made use of forced pay, which means less pay and weaker strike. We lack doctors, nurses, health professionals, logoists, physiotherapists, midwives, etc. And now we've got a case from the VG that intensive departments also have a crew crisis. This government has not secured our country. 88 pst. the general public is concerned about the lack of nurses. The report says we will lack 28 000 nurses and 18 000 health professionals in 2035. It was before the pandemic hit Norway, and now many of them say they won't work anymore because it's been so hard under the pandemic. We need a red-green government. One of the first tasks is to clean up after the right-wing government's staffing policy. Those who save us should get higher pay. They should be given better professional rights, and we must offer all full and permanent jobs. Now Stortinget deals with a concrete proposal from SV, which will give more new doctors, which will also save money. Both Danish and Norwegian medical students must study first and take turns afterwards. We have many Norwegian students in Denmark, and they have to go through both KBU and tour in Denmark and take LIS1 in Norway afterwards. They have to take double turns. It's expensive, doesn't give us better doctors and gives us fewer new doctors a year. We have a play crisis. If SV receives a majority for a new scheme where these students are not allowed to go through the entire LIS1, Norway will receive 40–60 new doctors each year. We need to clean up after the manning policy of this government. We need more full and permanent jobs in the health sector, more practice places and more education positions in hospitals, and we need to eliminate the use of recruitment agencies. Then we need a red-green government -- not a center government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e2366	The most fascinating thing about these budget debates is to see how the air has gone all the way out of the blue balloon. It's all about hanging on for another six months. I think back to the financial debate in 2013, because there was no way in what order it was going to be in government finances. That would be the end of the over-exploitation policy. The perspective message was read and understood. And as the then representative Rotevatn said, I'm getting cold down my back. Right out in Political Quarter before the debate, it was a good idea that the red-greens had used oil money incorrectly and not forbade the country at bad times. Four years later, it was the same proposal from the financial committee leader, Astrup: ‘The time when politicians struggle to spend as much money as possible for different good purposes must gradually be over. Good intentions in the form of more money must be balanced against the results of the money.’ Yes, now we're here, 16 budgets later, and the only thing that's seen is excess, oil lubrication and overtime negotiations. This is a government that has spent more oil money than any other government in Norway combined. But what's left when we do the math? The promise in the autumn of 2013 was that we would now see a new direction for the country. The competitiveness of Norwegian companies was to be strengthened and people were going to work. But what was the result? The proportion of employment has fallen, the number of young people has doubled, and the trade balance is worse than in many years. The policy was promised to make the country more robust. The result? Large-scale centralisation, a policy of increasing differences and an oil money usage that makes us poorer equipped to meet the future. And it was promised to close the hole in the social security network. And the result? Unsocial cuts that pearl on a string, tax cuts to the well-being, weakening of labour environment laws and the organized working life. This is what will be inherited from the right party to the next government: zero ability and willingness to prioritize others other than those with the most pre-existing, no social reforms and no successful conversion reforms. And the political project turned out to be just one, easy to sit down literally at any price. There are many reasons why today's government should be replaced. Eight years' waste of Norway's abilities are perhaps the most important. Election date cannot be fast enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e2386	When the revised budget is adopted today, after eight consecutive years and 16 budgets, the same batches stand behind them. Over these eight years, we have built the country, and I am very proud of what has been delivered, proud of the policy that the Progress Party has stood for, both within and outside government. I'm proud of the state councils that over these years have represented the party, some have left us, some are leaving us today. I want to thank everyone for that effort. Also in this budget, we make decisions that make a difference, and that give a simpler everyday life to people the most. With this budget, we secure jobs, and we create new jobs. We build multiple roads, while reducing the cost of using them. In this way, we will have better use of the infrastructure, and we will build larger housing and labour regions, which will make larger areas attractive for housing or the creation of new jobs. It is district policy in practice. It's anyway very happy for me to be able to point out everything we deliver from local matters. In this budget and in the previous budget, we have many important and really crucial measures to ensure further growth in Rogaland and in Haugaland. In this budget, we are extending the system of abolishing the maximum net pay scheme out of the year, which is particularly important and necessary to ensure a level playing field for the maritime sector. We've secured the operation of our local airport. It may not be a chess turn when the world was hit by a pandemic to have its own aerodrome, but we're recording the unisony consensus that is in this room that the airports outside of Avinor are going to have the same support systems as airports in the Avinor system. It creates predictability. Karmsund port has evolved into one of the most attractive in the West, and here we have secured Husøywegen – a road that has given the area considerable uncertainty over many years, and how the uncertainty has now been cleared up. We have approved a veterinary border inspection post in the port, which is going to be crucial for further development, and here I would like to thank for a great cooperation with the government and Olug Vervik Bollestad. Now, when we see the road projects in the NTP to be realised, we are involved in building an attractive Westland, as a ferry-free connection between Bergen and Stavanger. Several projects on the E134 show the contours of a new main line between the East and the West, which will be a winter-safe mountain crossing. The initial start-up appropriations for Bakka–Solheim were crucial, which will ensure that the development of traffic growth is equal to between E39 and E134. With these results it inspires four new years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e2403	Of course, the budget we are discussing now, and which is the result of a reconciliation between the government parties and the Progress Party, has the basic idea that it confirms the economic line of the right parties – and I also want to say economic philosophy. It was the representative of Kapur, the chairman of the committee, who began this debate lowly, as he always is, and that is neatly meant, but he had a clear liberal political message. What I want to say is that what is a fundamental new feature when the Stortinge is now dealing with economic policy is – I see – that the Right has left its value-conservative economic line. It is the liberalist policy and thinking that have taken over. What is the result of, and why has it become like this? Well, that's very clear, of course, it's the partnership with the Progress Party that has helped to shift the main lines of economic policy in a clear liberalist direction. So what's the result? The representatives of the government parties can protest as much as they like, but there are increasing inequalities on the altar of tax relief. That is the result of this policy — all the cuts, from spectacle support to taxing termination benefits. The representative, Kapur, said that the taxing of businesses has never been worse than now. But even he and the bulk of the population have stood, for example. for the taxation of termination benefits for workers. I think that was quite right and absolutely necessary with that tax increase. It wasn't about the need for tax relief. Then there was a need to apply the tax. Workers – and it has been the philosophy of the right-hand side for all years – must understand that it is the people who are to bear the welfare state. Yes, they do, but they should not be exposed to things like this – of course. Cut in benefits for those who need it the most, sums up with fee increases to – I want to say that number – 43 billion. kr under Erna Solberg's management. That's the core of the policy, and then the tax relief comes as a compensation for this. The worst thing is that this has been completely unnecessary, but they have done it because they want such an economic development. That's what's left over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e2413	Last week, the judgment came over eight years of right-wing climate policy. The climate targets for 2020 were broken. Later judgment on the lack of effort in recent years for the really big emissions cuts is going to be tough. There has been no lack of warning that you have deliberately run into a breach. Nor has there been any lack of proposals on how to cut emissions any more. The problem has been that the right-hand government has not been interested in any climate cooperation with Stortinget. They have not been interested in reaching out to do what actually needs to be done to avoid a serious climate crisis. After eight years with Erna Solberg as Prime Minister, we just have to state that the government broke the climate goals. The government has granted oil companies subsidies that can be characterised as anabolic steroids. Since the Paris agreement was concluded in 2015, the government has issued 599 blocks to oil companies – 599 new oil blocks for the expansion of more oil and gas, and at a time when the warnings against new oil and gas extraction have only become stronger and stronger. The government's response to the International Energy Agency's warnings not to initiate new oil and gas fields was a few days later to release 84 new oil and gas blocks. The government has the fifth most environmentally hostile policy for repatriation after Korona, according to the Greenness of Stimulus Index from Vivid Economics. Last year the government made sure to put the ice cap not where it actually goes, but where the oil companies wanted it to go. At the top of it all, the government's climate policy has been drenched in palm oil for several of the eight years. The government has cut emissions by putting orangutan after orangutan on diesel tanks. The government's climate policy has bathed in palm oil and rainforest destruction. The government's emissions have led to large emissions and to the destruction of the rainforest in other parts of the world. All this has happened while the seriousness has become clear. A lot is at stake, but if there's something we're going to remember from today, before we split up, then it's: the emissions are going to be cut, new jobs are going to be created, and the country is going to have a red-green government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e2426	For the Right, it's a goal to have a society with little differences and high trust. There's been a lot of talk about differences in this debate, and I really think there's a caricature of Norway as the Difference Society with big F. We're actually the country in the world with the smallest differences. Tax has also been a central issue. And let it be clear that those who have the most must contribute the most. They also do that with the Right in government. In fact, they're contributing a little bit more now than under the red-green government. While people and businesses have kept a little more of their own money, tax revenue has increased by almost 90 billion in total. kr. So higher taxes don't automatically mean more to well-being. With the Right in government, we have, as I said, allowed people and businesses to keep a little bit more of their own money. We've reduced taxes and taxes by 34 billion. kr to facilitate increased activity and growth in jobs across the country. We've been simplifying business for 28 billion. kr. An average family has received NOK 14 000 less in taxes per year and NOK 66 000 more to route. At the same time, the number of teachers has increased. Several are completing advanced. Health cows have gone down. There are 4,000 more policemen than before. The defense has been manned up. We've doubled the appropriations for transportation. We build the road faster, more efficient and more reasonable than before. It's a grip that creates room to give tax relief to everyone, who in turn creates jobs and activity. There are positive circles that we need more of, not less. Property taxes on working capital – yes, there is a strange tax on jobs, on plant machinery, on vessels in storage and on wood in stock. The hardest hit are the backbone of Norwegian working life, the most employed, the small and medium-sized family-run enterprises throughout the country. A foreign owned company on Hitra in Trøndelag is exempt from property tax, while the Norwegian-owned neighbour has to pay, regardless of whether the company is running with profits or not. Since the two companies compete in the same market, it goes without saying that the competitive disadvantages of the private Norwegian-owned company are significant. A lot is at stake, said the representative Haltbrecken, and I agree with that. What a red-green option will mean is highly unclear. The only thing that's certain is that there will be massive tax increases for corporations and people from 7 billion. kr annually and up to 28, ‘and counting’. So the last thing that a Norwegian business needs to do, is now a solid tax bill. What is needed is a policy that facilitates growth, and creating secure jobs in private businesses, jobs that contribute to the state budget, so that we have values to distribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e2443	I have to ask: what is the deal with this suture that is now being heard from this pulpit? It goes up people from the right, one by one, and tells about how terrible things are going to be with a shift, and about how terrible it is that you have plans for what you want to do with the country. It's terrible that you have a plan for the first 100 days if you're going to win a choice. Everything gets expensive, and nothing gets better. There's a lot of scare propaganda, which I don't think there's so many people who really are able to listen to, except the government that's seen themselves a little blind just to criticise. What you don't say is what you want. What does this government want? What do you want if you get four new years, except to continue with the same course? More of what is, empty of ideas. And then that's this property tax -- that's all you're talking about is removing the property tax. But as my colleague, Terje Aasland, said, "You've had eight years, and that's a reason why you haven't, because it's not wise to remove the property tax." And what you're going to see is that the differences have increased to those degrees. It is not a coincidence that differences are increasing in society – it is a misguided policy that contributes to an increase in differences. It's crazy right-wing policy, which helps to increase the differences. Maybe it's time we stopped right-wing policy. There might be enough right now. Maybe you're going to put the community back first, to do something about the increased differences in our society, to get more people to work, to stop centralization, which makes it equal opportunities across the country, to do something about the climate challenges, to reduce emissions. I guess none of us thought we were going to spend almost half the time on a pandemic, but we've done that, and we've done a lot of things together. But there are many who are still struggling and having it difficult, especially the tourism industry. You haven't listened. You have not wanted to adjust the course, even when you have received input from a total industry. Why has it not been ensured that the companies have been able to keep a little more of the turnover, get a little back from us? You could have done that if you had supported suggestions here in Stortinget. You could have adjusted the course, you haven't done it. Nor will you be able to afford money to restart this fantastic industry, which is going to be an important industry, create amazing jobs across the country in the city and in the districts of the future. But then you also need a new course. You have to have a government that wants something for the country. I'm proud to be on a team that wants something.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e2452	My father was a railroad man. For 40 years he worked on the railway – three shifts for 40 years. One of my grandfathers was a bully for 40 years. My second grandfather was an industrial worker in the woodworking industry and went two and three shifts for 45 years. They had one thing in common, and it was that they had a trade union book with marks in which they bought every week when they had been paid. My mother and my two grandmothers were housewives, of course, and therefore in my family there was always only one income throughout all the years – and also practically the minimum pension for all. My political understanding, my political work and my political philosophy have been built on what they taught me over the years, but also on how they lived. Therefore I have decided to read a poem to the Storting, and it is dictated Dict to my children, by Stig Holmås: ‘I leave my children this poem to learn to love the winds, the sea, the sweet smell of great love, and trade unions. Without them, we had nothing. The hungry don't see the beauty. It's tired, it doesn't love. I leave my children this poem to learn to love the winds, the sea, the sweet smell of great love, and trade unions. Without them we had nothing." [[Claping in the hall]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e2489	Then I get to start by thanking Martin Kolberg both for the political work he's done for many years, and for this poem, because it's also something I know well in. I thought I'd remind this assembly that maybe we're one of the few countries in the world that can solve some of the big challenges we have, without really creating any big bridesmaid. We're a rich country. Then there is actually no reason why someone should not have food in the fridge, be asked to borrow a barbecue from the neighbor to get food or not have electricity in his house. It's just a question of how we share this money we have, and that's where we separate so ideologically. There's nothing good about cutting glasses for kids, or about people who are sick and have gone to the AAP for three years, going without income for a whole year because they don't get healthy fast enough, or people don't get housing support and can't afford a home. It just gets hurt out of this. I have heard so many speakers from this pulpit say that it is man who is the greatest and most important resource we have in this country, and that is it. Yeah, these are people, too. Take better care of them. Make them sleep well at night, many more will be fine. I am absolutely sure that society, including all the entrepreneurs and business owners who are all talking about here, who are of course very nice and important people, is involved in that fissure when we invite them into it, because that's important. It's about values, both human and those that are created in society. The perspective message that the government presented shows that we have enormous possibilities in the future. They're just asking us how to use them. We can build the well-being together, so that many more come out of school with their heads up and legs down and believe in themselves. That's why SV wants to spend money on it. We think that's very important. We want to spend money to relieve the risk to those who want to get up and start a business, help them with investments, take the risk from them. When things go very well, they can contribute a little more to the fissure layer that has made them get up and stand. I think this is a profitable recipe, which will be profitable for the country and not least make that a lot more people get a good life, and that we get a lot more of the creativity that actually lives in very many, but that today is crushed because the differences are increasing and too many are completely unnecessary getting a bad life.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e2508	We are now dealing with the last budget during this enlargement period, and I therefore want to address the governance of economic policy in Norway. Four years ago, the four bourgeois parties went to elections to continue to rule the country together and got the opportunity to do so. Nevertheless, it has not been shown to be that simple. During a single expansion period, we have had four different government constellations, now at the end of the Progress Party as a supporting party on the outside. At one point this support party said they would not negotiate anything with the government. Then they negotiated with the government about the state budget, but said they wouldn't hesitate to throw the government if we didn't stand in the middle of a pandemic. During the winter, the Progress Party has also negotiated with the rest of the opposition and has had an impact on issues such as government parties and the Right, now on the rise side, where, together with the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre Party, they ensure a fairer social security settlement. In the middle of all this, they have agreed with the government and the Right on the revised national budget. There was no warm agreement, exactly. A joint press conference was not even possible. The parties were not allowed to participate in the presentation of a common budgetary unit. So this is the way the country is governed, and it is not just in economic policy. The same is true in climate policy and transport policy. Right does not have the power to form a majority behind the proposals they make to the Storting. Where does the road go? We can get a red-green majority consisting of different parties, but agreeing that we need to redistribute better, have a more active industrial policy and strengthen well-being. If we get a continued civil majority, today's situation will most likely continue, with a government without a majority behind in the Storting that loses control of economic policy. There is one exception they agree on on the right side: the treasure of the richest will be cut further. Now it is the property tax on shares and commercial property to be cut. The representative Agdestein claims that Hitra companies pay property taxes. No one does. It'll cost 7 billion. to cut taxes on equity and make them tax-free, over 3 billion. kr only for commercial real estate. 6 of these 7 billion. kr goes to the country's 1 pst. Richest. So at least the right-hand side is to be praised for a concrete election vow – 6 billion. kr to the country’s 1 pst. Richest. Right likes to copy slogans from other parties a day, and I have a suggestion that the Right can go to the elections on: Now it's the richest of their turn.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e2525	At the loss of a four-year period, I will look back ten to twelve years in time. We have been through a financial crisis over the ten to twelve years. We've had what some call an oil price crisis. It was down against the $20 barrel, and now we're back on some and seventy. One of the most scandalous episodes I've ever had in Stortinget and in the political life of Stortinget, is when there were 5,000 bikes across Storskog. It's not natural that it happens. It was a migration crisis, yes, but it is clear there were several forces in games that escaped. There are not 5,000 bicycles on the border between Russia and Norway as usual. We've had a pandemic. This is a reminder that the next ten years probably will not be free of any crises either. Norway is in a fairytale economic situation that enables us to squeeze out and face challenges that arise in such a type of crisis. We have also seen a kind of preparedness both in the Norwegian population, in the Norwegian bureaucracy and in Norwegian municipalities that makes a person throw around and be prepared. I'm very happy about that. This is also my last speech from the Chair of the Great Britain, as too many others do. I'm not going to have a toe cut off, but the Left has not had any big-time representatives from Uppland since 1945. So it's been a great honor and joy to get eight years here on the Big City and luckily got to be in and make a difference. I've had four years in the Health and Care Committee. I think it's a civil majority who's put a lot of emphasis on drugs, on an escalating plan for drugs. There was a lot of money and a lot of need. In the last period, there was a Russian reform. It was not fully executed, but we have been involved in raising the care of those who need it the most. National health and hospital plans were put in place. It came as little as changing the title of a health sister, but it's almost only female health sisters, and there's also a question in this discussion of justice. We've got NTNU to Gjøvik on my watch. New roads are established and they build four-field roads in the interior and a new one in wood. There's going to be a new hospital in Moelv, and the Inland State is established, about which there's really quite a cross-political consensus. Finally, I will send a greeting to Lars Sponheim, who has been one of my role models in politics. He went across the mountain and had ambition as the Council of State to establish the Inland 2010. It was 2020. Thank you for everything, Lars!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e2540	This is a joyous day for the football, a joyous day for young people from all over the world, a joyous day for social gatherings, a joyous day for cross-border contacts, a joyous day for young people in love and a joyous day for summer memories. The Progress Party has secured the financing of the 2022 Norway Cup. Norway Cup is the world's largest football tournament, and after two years of cancelled events, the organization needed some money for the 2022 anniversary event. That's the 50th Norway Cup. Norway Cup is a folk festival for children and young people from all over the world. The budget agreement means that Norway Cup receives 4.5 million. kr for the preparation and organisation of the event. The money really means a be or not for the Norway Cup. It's the Progress Party proud of having got there. Home-defence soldiers went back for a while to legal proceedings against the state to get paid holiday money in connection with their service. The soldiers won out after two rounds in court. However, three soldiers are left with the bill for the costs. It's unacceptable. I'd like to say hello to all the HV soldiers who have been in the fight. When the State loses in two courts and the Supreme Court refuses the appeal, the total victory of the HV soldiers is. The State must, of course, cover all the costs for these individuals, who have fought this fight on behalf of many. The Progress Party will therefore be the guarantor that this money will be granted in connection with the State budget for the autumn. All honours to the representative Martin Kolberg – I would say that first of all. He tends to speak with big words, but there are not so many clear examples in what he says. All respect for his family and his history – I would like to stress that several times. He's talking about increasing differences and increasing inequalities. It's the eternal mantra; we're going to hear it over and over again in the election campaign. All of them, most of them in this country have been better off in recent years. Those who may not have gotten better are those who have lost the job and go to Nav services, but almost everyone has got better. We must not forget that. But where do these social differences come from? They come from increased immigration of refugees. It is clear that when you come with two empty hands, the language cannot be, is without a relevant cultural background from Norway, without knowledge of society, and you may have children with you, of course you will have poverty with you. Then there'll be social differences between those who have something and those who don't have anything. I think you should take that on board when you have a responsibility to take refugees to Norway – that is the result. To the representative Karin Andersen, who thinks we can afford out of poverty: we can never afford out of poverty. The only way to get out of poverty is to create jobs and values, which make you get jobs for those who don't have jobs. That's how you get out of poverty. You can give as much as you want, but it's an eternal project, and you don't get richer as a society by it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e2555	For over a year, people and businesses have been in an exceptional situation. People have lost their jobs, people have been put off, others have kept their jobs, but they have been in a working situation with an extraordinary pressure or sitting in isolation at a home office. Enterprises have a clear share of equity and companies have gone bankrupt. During this period, the size has contributed many positive levers for both people and business, and that is good. I also think that most people recognise the effort the Stortinget has made through the crisis packages, especially those that were established on the spring side last year. Nevertheless, we have not succeeded towards everyone. One of the industries that has been hit hardest is the tourism industry. Last year, the State Council, Nybø, said that travel life had to stop talking about crisis, and today the Progress Party representative, Halleland, suggested that the tourism industry would do well. Another industry that has been heavily exposed is the restaurant and catering industry. It is an industry that, from day one, has had dramatic measures, with partial or full closure largely all the way, with the consequences it has had for loss of turnover. The summer season last year was greatly reduced, the Christmas season failed, and the daily visits have not taken place. A few days ago, I was able to read in my own local newspaper, the Smälenes Newspaper, about a restaurant in the whey that went bankrupt. Today I was able to read in Fredrikstad Sheet about a restaurant in Greyer that had to close the doors due to bankruptcy. They haven't survived the pandemic. Many restaurants and dining areas today can rejoice that it is now towards normality – and I think we are happy for all of them – but it does not suggest that the last year has burdened a otherwise healthy operation heavily. I've been talking to several restaurateurs and eaters in the last year, among other things. the holder of Mrs Blom in Rakkestad, who has pointed to reduced serving moms as a very good and simple tool to increase activity. It would therefore have been a good and correct blow from Stortinget's side to reduce the serving tax from 25 pst. to 15 pst. in e.g. three semesters, as proposed by the Centre Party in its alternative budget, as a temporary contribution to increased activity and to bring more staff into the service sector back to work as the restrictions on infectious diseases are facilitated. Another industry that has failed by this government is the taxi industry, through a free slip that contributes to poorer pay and working conditions. The industry has also been affected by tax increases introduced by this government. A good taxi offer throughout the country is crucial in the view of the Centre Party and part of the collective offer that should exist. In addition, drivers of taxis shall have a working day to live with. I am at least pleased that the Central Party today in its revised national budget is proposing to exempt the taxis from the tax collector's fee in 2021. Unfortunately, this majority does not get, even if it would have helped to remove a stone from the burden of these highly stressed industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e2574	For the Workers' Party, work to all and transition to future environmentally friendly industrial workplaces are two sides of the same coin. Two weeks ago, the right parties unexpectedly turned down the thumb of the Workers' Party's proposal to establish an industrial pilot 4.0. That proposal was designed in close contact with the industrial environment at Kongsberg. In the 2020 tariff revision of the Industry Agreement, the Joint Confederation and the Norwegian Industry together chose to launch industrial pilot 4.0 at Kongsberg. And why? Yes, because the pilot is about the conversion and development of industrial workplaces across the country. Kongsberg has close contact with and broad support from, among others. Here, Raufoss, Stord and Halden. The industry that sees what the right parties obviously do not see – that the Kongsberg industry has the competence and experience to succeed in the transition to the future industry. All the parties in Buskerud, including the Right parliamentary leader, have visited Kongsberg and been told clearly that our action packages do not hit large industrial businesses and industrial clusters in conversion. Property taxes have never been a theme. The Minister of Industry has called industrial pilot 4.0 a new tool that is not needed. It is a total short cut and shows that the government does not understand what this is all about. Norway is losing ground. What the industry now needs is a new government with the ability to listen, understand and join the parties in taking Norwegian jobs into the future before it is too late. So we need labour. We need everyone who can and will. The government's unfair social security scheme, which in its redundancy payments, has pushed those who were furthest away from the labour market, even further away, into social assistance or private support. And the pandemic has made things worse. People don't get ready for anything, either in health care or for work. People are being discouraged and losing faith in themselves. Mastering and opportunities become foreign words. In RNB, the government proposes to extend the AAP until 1 October. The working party will not set a date. The right of extension must last for as long as necessary. It is also clear from our 100-day plan for a new government. The other red-green parties have their variants of the same proposal. We vote for each of our sides it's not possible to get a majority for any of them today. But after the election, on the other hand, there are new opportunities with new government. We need new, green jobs. We need skilled labour. We have to figure out the potential that lives in everyone. Investment in people and jobs will always pay off. Of tax cuts, there's nothing growing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e2590	One day like this, I would normally talk about the miserable government distribution policy, about how well-being is being built up for the inhabitants of the country, about how they become even richer. I could have talked about the need for a green enterprise policy in this country, where the aim is to meet climate change obligations and reduce differences, build the country and create new, green food and industry, or fisheries on the premises of coastal people or on agriculture throughout the country. But today I'm going to talk about something else – about our mental health. Because it's a fact that the mental health in Norway got worse and worse before the pandemic hit us, and the pandemic has intensified this development. It is an estimated half a million people who are mentally tired in this country. It affects all parts of society, regardless of occupation, background, gender or housing. In our case, we got numbers from the health and well-being study of the students, which illustrated the state shockingly. Nearly half say they experience severe symptoms, and 23 pst. says they've seriously thought of taking their own life, but haven't tried. At the same time, thousands are being rejected and not getting help. Nearly 25 pst. For those who are referred to psychiatric treatment, they are rejected. 32,000 living people with a documented need for help are rejected by the Norwegian health system. No entry was made at the specialist service. This is the background for SV proposing half a billion dollars for mental health protection in our alternative budget, and in our revised budget further. Especially now, after a pandemic that has a mind and our lives, this is important. And as important as money is listening – listening to those who are tired, those who work with mental health protection, relatives, etc. The rule has not done any pieces. They have not allowed the right money, and they do not listen. Today, SV proposes to stop the move of mental clinics from Åsgård to Breivika in Tromsø. The board of the University Hospital of North Norway has proposed the move, which is largely based on the need to save money. The move encounters massive resistance from professionals, massive resistance from users and relatives, and the municipality itself has opposed it. They think that moving will make the offer worse, that the capacity drops, and that the treatment is more similar to a machine than being adapted to each patient. 'People, not billions' was a prime minister who once said. If there are patients, relatives and professionals to listen to, it's a terrible idea to move the mental health and drug clinic from Åsgård to Breivika. In this case, it will appear as a symbol of a government that has not taken mental health care seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e2607	I joined the Stortinget in 2013 and became the head of the Energy and Environment Committee. I then took over a policy from the red-green total without direction and systematics within climate policy, with a climate target that was almost impossible to understand. We were to cut 15 million tonnes from an estimated increase, calculated in 2005, including 3 million tonnes in forest. When you calculated it, it turned into 48.7 million tons in 2020. We've worked that every year to reach. We knew it was hard, but it was possible. Today, I hear articles about crisis with regard to that climate objective, that we have not achieved it. No, it's 2.7 pst. over that target today. We've been working on getting systematics to bring down the emissions. The whole instrument has been reinforced, whether it is the Research Council, Innovation Norway, investing in hydrogen, with an action plan now finally, Enova or Nysnø, in place. In transport in particular, we have achieved results that no other country is close to, with green shipping, which has its own action plan, and with implementation of a zero-emission ship far ahead of others, with 60 pst. sales of electric cars now in May of this year. We're on our way to the toughest target any country has set, with the sale of just a zero-emission vehicle in 2025. We've set new targets. The new measure for 2050 is 90-95 pst. reduction. It is much tougher than any target the EU has set. This is far tougher than a net zero to 2050. We have registered with the UN 50-55 pst. reductions by 2030 and future increases must follow up. We cannot reduce that target in the future when it is to be revised later. We have linked ourselves to cooperation with the EU with common objectives in 2030. Systematics are there and must be followed up over the next ten years. I do not think a red-green majority had managed to reach an agreement with the EU on common climate targets for 2030. When we listen to the debate here today, we have, on the one hand, the incomprehensible: the EEA Agreement is the most district friendly we have, given the export industries throughout the country, but the centre party is opposed. The EEA Agreement pursues environmental and climate policy in the future, whether it is a water directive or it is a renewable directive or there are other areas, such as REACH, climate, green. SV is opposed to a cooperation with the EU. One of the key issues for the future in climate and environment is to strengthen European cooperation, not weaken it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e2618	Let me first arrest the Center Party for an obvious factual error in the Norwegian trade balance for mainland Norway. The reality is that when a person retrieves money from the oil fund’s return for use in Norway, the trade balance indirectly deteriorates. So one shifts money from foreign currency to Norwegian kroner, and the higher oil money consumption, the higher the indirect imports. If the trade balance is going to go to zero, we have to give away the entire oil fund, for example. to the African Union, as proposed by the Guru Piketty on the left. So I'm very pleased that the Center Party is just proposing to give away the oil fund to improve the trade balance, for which they are so very concerned. Since I am making my last post here in this room as a wholesaler, I must finally take the opportunity to thank my 168 colleagues for 12 phenomenal years at Stortinget. I would like to thank you for good debates in the Chamber, in the sitting room and in the media, and I would also like to thank you for less good debates. But debates really don't go so deep, at least no longer than politics, because after the debates we are actually just as good colleagues. I've made many acquaintances and very many friends on Stortinget by being a big representative, and I hope it's friendship that can last a lifetime. I would also like to say a thousand thanks to the party and the voters, who have allowed me to be a big-time representative for 12 years. In the end, I want to extend a big thanks to those we see every day, some of them we see sometimes, and some of them we may never have looked at the 12 years I've been here. I refer to the referees, the officers, the people running the security section, the people cleaning our offices and the public areas, the technical staff, the canteen staff, etc. They do a job every day and night so that we can do our job the best we can. So a thousand thank you very much! Without these colleagues, the 12 years had become much, much harder.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e2627	Thanks to Morten Ørsal Johansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e2632	My coworker Fredric Holen Bjørdal brought up a few things that I have to deal with. This is probably my last opportunity to have a debate here in the Chamber with my good fellow countryman. He took it up with the use of oil money, and there's three things to say to it: Firstly, in this revision of the national budget, the Labour Party spends 1.5 billion. kr more oil money than the Government and the Advance Party do. The center part uses 5.5 billion. kr more. So this whole large-scale argument and the criticism of oil money usage fall on rock bottom when you say one thing from this pulpit, but put something completely different into their budgets. Secondly, this government is actually using the whole rule of action. Where we went from eight years of thin lubrication for all purposes, we spend the great money for exactly what the rule of action was to be used for: research and education, infrastructure, road and rail, and growth-promoting tax relief. In fact, we are precisely giving priority to making Norway less oil dependent in the future. And thirdly, the Labour Party has no good solutions to contribute to what's just going to make us less oil dependent, and there's growth in the private sector. Taxes shall be collected in any case. Growth in business is the same as government ownership and the use of national money. You have to increase taxes, move money into an office in Oslo, and then the Workers' Party is going to sit in that office to decide what is business. Private services in the public sector shall be stopped. People should be in line instead of being able to avail themselves of private health services. At the same time, while being criticized for money use, the Workers' Party will not have any talk about cuts or priorities. The efficiency of the public sector through the ABE reform must be halted. Digital solutions that can replace offices and give us room to retrain even more teachers, we're not going to have any of them. You're against increased bureaucracy, but you don't want to be part of the grips that actually make it smaller. The government has so far managed two crises and is standing in the third. Everyone agrees that it was right to use more in bad times, and then my fellow countryman says: no social reforms. This is simply a mistake: rights to user-led personal assistance, the completion reform, the integration reform, healthcare package trajectories, inclusion dues, free core time, the escalation plan for the drug field – and the number of homeless people has never been lower. Before the pandemic, eight out of ten jobs were created in the private sector, under the Workers' Party, the number was two out of three. Those numbers speak for themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e2647	Mudassar Kapur [[H]] With the Right in Government, the total taxes and charges have been reduced by 34 billion. kr. This has helped to alleviate the overall burden on Norwegian industry and Norwegian owners. It gives the individual family more to walk with. It gives the individual citizen and employee and works more each month, and it's not like the state is the best when the wallet to people is empty because they have paid money to the state. The state doesn't know best. So Special Representative Terje Aasland, but also others from the Workers' Party, challenged us as to why we have not just removed the property tax. Well, we're a responsible party, and we've been in government with other responsible parties. Of course, you don't remove a tax with a pen stroke. You have to do it gradually, you have to step it down, and you have to do it in a way that doesn't make us zero-tax providers either. So yes, we've put down the property tax. We have taken sides with Norwegian ownership. We don't want to increase it and have done it in a responsible way, and we're going to continue to do it, as opposed to others who want to increase it. So to SV, who has talked a lot about inequality today: it's very special to hear this connection between inequality and taxes and taxes. When SV himself was in government, they had higher corporate taxes, higher income taxes, higher property taxes, inheritance taxes, and yet the differences went up. Then I've heard that Kristin Halvorsen may be quoted as wrong that she said you could eliminate poverty with a pen stroke. So I'm not going to use that exact quote. I don't know if there was a lack of pen or if there was a lack of will, but when SV could get what they wanted and have high taxes on everything, you couldn't do anything with the differences, and then the credibility of the argument is gone.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e2656	Nils Kristen Sandtrøen [[A]] On the opposite hand, on Monday we could see those who have really shot in terms of wealth in the Korona period. Rema-Reitan and the other daily food kings have reached 62 000 million. kr richer on just this one year. It is obvious that there are many people with large assets who can contribute a little more, such that Kai Haugen, who runs a Trysil job, can be met with a hub that actually has enough wage subsidies to get young people into work, so Nav can have enough people on the basic level to work with young people at the local secondary school before they fall out. It will be beneficial both for local business and not least for our overall economy in Norway when more people come to work and fewer falls out. An important and honest clarification this spring was when Vice-Chairman and Councilman Tina Bru said that there is something ‘fucking clothes’ that the Workers' Party says it's a common people's turn. That's what I thought was important, because it shows that we have completely different ways of thinking about politics. The people who have driven taxis should be assured that the first hundreds of days we are ending liberalisation that makes it impossible to live on taxis in the future. They deserve security – along with their families.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e2663	The government will preserve a society of small differences, says Finance Minister Jan Tore Sanner. Right Elin Rodum Agdestein says Norway has landed with least differences. Either the Right cannot read the inequality research and the numbers that exist, or they will not, because Norway has a lot of inequality. That is an absolutely undeniable fact. In Norway, the wealth is ‘very unevenly distributed’. That's what the SSB writes. They continue that ‘distribution became even more skeptical in 2019’ before the coronary apathy. In fact, the wealth inequality in Norway is greater than in countries such as Spain, France and Italy. We're on the level with the United Kingdom. One important reason is that more and more of the country's wealth and wealth are concentrated on few hands. The richest 0.1 % share of total wealth in Norway has increased by 40 pst. since 2013. 2000 households own 11.6 pst. net worth of the country. It's concentration of power and wealth. So the Right says that we can't look at the property inequality, that it's going to be completely wrong. So let's think about the income inequality. Okay, in Norway the 370 richest people earn 6 pst. of all income. Is there a slight inequality? No, no, no. Inequality researcher Rolf Aaberge in the SSB states that we have to look to the United States to find similar numbers. One in five dollars in Norway goes to the richest percent. Is there a slight inequality? So it's the same parties that deny that we have great inequality in Norway, which actively drives the growth of today's inequality – by cutting the wealth tax, by removing inheritance taxes, through the housing market and the deterioration of the work environment law, through a wide range of unsocial cuts that hit them with the worst of advice. We know that great differences in society weaken trust between people, that weakens the glue of society. We also know that big and growing inequality is not a law of nature. It's because of politics, wanted politics. It can be snuffed. That is why we must have a change of government. There was much less inequality under the red-green government. There were far fewer kids growing up in poor families under the red-green government. It was a more redistributive and fair tax system. The welfare was built under the red-green government. I'm proud of it. I know that the challenges are bigger now, after eight years of right-wing government, and yet I'm happy to start again with a new red-green government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e2678	Right now, social media is full of proud parents publishing images of their children who are finished with 13 years of schooling. There are, in fact, record numbers of them, because there are record numbers that are now completing high school. I can promise that it will combat inequality. Our task now is to ensure that the school starters of the year also experience being at school in 13 years. After the pandemic, it is more important than ever that politicians actually dare to give priority to the most important thing in school and the most important thing for students' learning, and that they also dare to be consistent in school policy, even if they get a little countermeasure. That's what the right has done. We have been clear that early efforts are essential for all students to experience mastery. That is why we have introduced an obligation to intensive training for students who are dependent on reading and billing. Because the teacher is the most important thing for the students' learning, we have implemented a teacher's vow, with five-year master's education, enhanced admission requirements, skills requirements for teachers who work at school, and new career paths. We see that it seems that the students learn more, that more people are present at school, and that more finish. After the promise of knowledge, there was almost a truce in Norwegian school policy. We don't have that truce anymore. The Labour Party has now taken a U-turn in almost all school policy issues in recent years, and they also change every two years their opinion on what is most important in school. SV is back to old beats and will remove grades, homework, exams, skills requirements for teachers and requirements for students to attend school. Then we have the Center Party, which I've barely heard talk about school in this pulpit ever. The last Norwegian student needs now, is a left-hand side that will reverse the demand that Norwegian, math and English teachers have studied Norwegian, math and English, and that will lower the requirement to enter the teacher’s education and reverse the transparency of the school’s results. They need policy-makers who give priority to early action, adapted to training, better special education and closer follow-up of those students who are struggling, instead of spending billions on free school food. Unfortunately, the consequences of this school policy in Oslo School, which used to be the best in the country to balance social differences, are now visible. Now the differences are increasing. Professionals are alarming, and more students with low-skilled parents are struggling with reading and billing. If you are concerned with inequality statistics, you should also be concerned about this. Having a school that doesn't give priority, and not following schools that are struggling, also increases differences and inequalities. We in the Right know that those who lose the most in a school that doesn't make demands and that doesn't give priority to basic skills are the children who don't get the help they need at home. That's why we're going to do everything we can in the next few years to close the knowledge gaps in the school after the corona, to help those students who have now lost the mastery feeling and are left behind in the subjects. That's how you create opportunities, and that's how you fight inequality.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e2695	The representative Fredric Holen Bjørdal has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e2700	The debate has shown that the solutions to the left have broadest support in society. It's the only explanation that the right-wing party has nothing else to do with this debate than an anxiety-bitten attack on our ambitious and powerful 100-day plan and our tax policy. It is right that our tax policy will result in the richest paying something more, so that ordinary people pay less. But it's also the case that right-wing policies have spent enormous amounts of money lowering taxes to those that have the most of them, without affecting job creation. This is money one could have spent on adding thousands of teachers and nurses or on investing in districts. The Koronacrisa will reinforce the injustices and differences between people. The last thing we need is more tax gifts to the most prosperous. We need to spend the money to get people to work and to strengthen the health care system, schools and kindergartens. There are some people in, and so now more and more arrows point towards government change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e2708	In these debates, a few times they think that these speech points have been heard before, or that they are now repeating themselves. And then there's a second time one thought that one learned something, or that there was a perspective that raised the debate a little bit. Several of those who have expressed their thanks during this debate are among those I would like to draw up that can contribute to the latest. Both Jon Georg Dale and Martin Kolberg are examples of this. Even if one may be unanimous or disunity — usually disunity — there are still some perspectives that may raise the debate. Another representative like that is Svein Roald Hansen from the Workers' Party, who made an article today quoting from the Gospel of Matthew. Then I thought there was a new perspective, and now I learned something. But then I went through the record from the previous time we had a budget debate, and the jam I didn't learn the same thing that time. The point is not to fool a repeat point, which is probably good and important, but the point is that when we're going to sum up a debate on the revised national budget, I think it's a little important that you be able to raise your perspective and look forward to it too. So I thought that something that might be a little illustrative for the debate we've had is what goes on in the Gospel of Matthew, where it says: "Therefore I speak to them in parables, because they see, but don't see; they hear, but don't hear, and don't understand." Sometimes I think both sides that have been involved in this debate may feel that this is a bit of the way this debate is, because one may be a little bit more about it overseeing the picture, but one talk a little bit past each other in the perspectives that are drawn up. Now, when we adopt this budget and look forward to it, I think it's important that we be able to raise our perspective by also being able to take some of the challenges ahead of us. We know that we need to make a big change, both in terms of climate change we are facing, and in view of the fact that we have had too much difference between those who have a lot and those who have little in our country for too long. So I also thought I'd end up with a quote that could at least point to something of the Christian People's Party I think is important in the future. Ironically, there is something of what Nils Lavik first quoted from when he was elected to the Stortinget, i.e. Ivar Aasen's well-known poem: "No one can do to Layer after all; It is now old and will be so. I think it's going to be all right. aa help it, as it needs most." With the Christian People's Party in government, I can promise that one will continue to give priority to the families who have the least. That's where we've gotten a lot during this ageing period, and we're eager to get more. Therefore, I make choices and will take with me the lessons from Svein Roald Hansen and others who have taught me a lot, but it also inspires me to work on the political solutions I believe, and the values I think will characterize the Storting in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e2733	Some have said that now is the turn of ordinary people. I've tried to travel around to find out where the unusual people are, because most of the people I meet are quite common people. It's not always like us, but I think most people are common people. Then I register that the Workers' Party is very concerned with the wealth tax, that you have to skin people with even more taxes on wealth. Then it's pretty easy to meet a couple of common people who run a business, for example. Malin, who operates Tuddal Højfjellshotell in Telemark, and who has now had its hotel closed down – or Gudrun at Oset Højfjellshotell in Buskerud, who has also had its hotel completely shut down, but who has to pay property tax. They have some buildings, but at least they haven't had much income in the last year. Then it helps very little, and I think many of those who run their own businesses, are worried about a red-green government, who wants to increase the wealth tax and make it even worse. They're ordinary people, even if they're corporate owners. I'm glad that the Progress Party now has a lot of money to do with mental health, that's important to many. In a revised state budget, there are both small and large amounts to be allocated. That's what I want to bring with me to a guy who hasn't got the big money on this state budget, but who's an incredibly wonderful guy. His name is Per Lucke, and he is the Executive Director of Hardangervidda National Park Centre, which today will receive 2 million. kr to VR glasses and technology to get the experiences out to the people – perhaps also get the winter experiences when you're at Hardangervida in the summer. Such people, who have the burning commitment and enthusiasm, are just wonderful. When we contribute a few dollars from here today, it's going to be a great experience for all the tourists who are going to travel and up there in the future. Another important measure that actually gets money now, namely the heavy watershell at Vemork, is a crazy important project that is about caring for the basement that was blown up during the war, and making sure it's going to be there for future generations. These are important things, and I am pleased that the Progress Party has been given a majority in this State budget. Not least, it's worth 750 million. kr less in tolls about everyday life for ordinary people. Here, there is less money to be paid in several counties. It is nice, and it is nice to know that we have now received approx. 2.7 B.C.E. kr less – I think it is – in tolls. It means something in everyday life to ordinary people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e2748	I have recorded that there has been a significant debate on property taxes. On the way, I also registered the representative Tetzschner, who reiterated to my previous post today and had almost never heard that there was anyone who had invested money in foreign shares. Then it's interesting that some of the first thing that happened after the last round of stock raise came was that DNB went out and said that now it's more attractive to invest in unit trusts. It is DNB that markets unit trusts, where one can either invest in a unit trust with shares only in the United States, in global financial companies worldwide, or in other types of unit trusts, both domestically and abroad. I have recorded the debate that has gone on about property taxes in the Right, and what is a little interesting is that with the new policy on which the Right has applied, where they are going to remove the wealth tax on working capital, but keep the other taxes on wealth, it is that if you have high enough net wealth and have money in the Bank, you have to pay taxes on wealth. Or if you own a dwelling and you have enough net wealth, you have to pay taxes on wealth. But if you've invested money abroad in unit trusts, well, you're not going to pay property taxes in the future. How it's fair in the future, is hard to see. So to the representative Hoksrud, it's obvious that the wealth tax is a challenge for some people. It is therefore important to target, and, for example, as proposed by the Centre Party, to reduce the asset value of directly owned operating assets, which is important for active owners in their own holding. It is also important to reduce depreciation rules, and it is important to consider the calculation factor in relation to the equivalency of commercial property — for example. Then it is not least important for hotels that have been shut down and that are now going to try to get back into activity, to have a little more left of it a clearer and have off the market. The promotion party agrees to double the travel income from 1 October – for each additional crown a clear person to be traded, the State shall charge a fee twice as large as from 1 October. I have now correctly registered that the representative, Listhaug, says that the government has to assess it until 1 October. But the government must follow decisions taken by the Stortinget, and the Advance Party, together with the government parties and the Workers' Party, is today in favour of a doubling of the travel income. Otherwise I also registered the representative Ørsal Johansen talking about trade deficits, and it seems almost as if it is a great happiness for Norway that the trade deficit from mainland Norway has still increased. In that case, the Right, who has said that it would have been important to do something about the big trade deficit that was when they took over, should change their course. Instead, it's doubled.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e2759	If you want to bring down the differences between people, you can't systematically take from those who barely have needles in the wall, and give to those who have the most. It's actually that simple. If you want those who have lost their jobs and their health to get to work, you have to make sure that they have the opportunity to become healthy and have skills that enable them to do something that an employer needs. That's smart. We can do this, but today it's not like that. It's that we have these possibilities that are not being used, I think is bad. There is no government that has ever spent as much money as this government has. There's obviously a little bit more money for one and the other, and that's good and good, but you haven't chosen to use the opportunity to reduce the differences, which we know is good for people, good for society and good for value creation. You've done the opposite. Finally, to the climate challenge: I have to say I am quite horrified at how little commitment there is on the right hand side of that matter. It is a fundamental crisis, and in that respect we cannot sit down with the laws of nature, negotiate and say: wait a minute, we are not quite clear here! No, when that happens, it happens -- either that someone else has invented the green jobs that we should be able to figure out and live off, or that climate change is happening. The same applies to loss of species and nature. When it's lost, it's lost. It's almost impossible to restore it again. So in that area, it's not going to keep negotiating with opposing parties. Then the parties that recognise that this is a serious, fundamental problem must sit together and find the plan that makes us both cut greenhouse gas emissions and create the jobs ahead. SV has invited it many times. I record that the government has been waiting for those who are closest to climate negators. It's a dangerous course because this is not an area we can wait for, because the changes happen when they happen, not when it suits us. This is a challenge for all the parties sitting here. It's serious, and I don't see that this assembly has realized the seriousness that we have in front of us. But in this area, we also have opportunities because we have financial opportunities, we have human resources, and we have the economy to both cut greenhouse gas emissions and ensure that we have jobs we can live on in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e2772	I'll be pretty short. It has been a long debate, and he has talked about many things, but the most important thing for the country is not primarily small and large in the revised national budget, which is the direction in which we want to go. I have to admit that I think it is quite interesting to see that when today's governments and representatives from today's government are confronted with the results they are left with after eight years in government, they do not show new ideas and better solutions for the future. What they do instead is to point back to previous governments and say that they were at least as bad, at least not better. I just have to say that I don't know if poor people are so very impressed when they hear the Minister of Finance say that the differences, after all, have also increased before, that it's not like they've just increased in recent years. I don't know if people in Norway are so very impressed when they belong, for example. The representative, Ola Elvestuen, said that the Stoltenberg II government was also not very good at running with climate change. I think people lack politicians who want something on behalf of their country, who point forward, and who want to be responsible rather than owe anyone else and give any other possible explanation of the results you have. I want to be completely honest: we in the Labour Party want to take responsibility for the country. We want to take responsibility for it being common people's turn. Then we need systematic changes. We need a shift of power from rich people to ordinary people, and that it's normal people's lives, they work and their everyday lives, which are prioritised. This includes, inter alia: we need to have a welfare state that exists for everyone, not a welfare country that is increasingly centralised or increasingly privatising welfare. There is some reason why, in this revised budget, we will not primarily spend money on the purchase of private health services, but rather spend large sums of money on the supply that is public and common to all. The same applies to the direction of climate policy. We want a climate policy that is ambitious, but that is also fair. Climax bills should not primarily end up on ordinary people's wallets, but we should have a climate policy that secures jobs and also secures the economy of ordinary people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e2789	For the past six and a half years, this Committee, that is, the Committee on Finance, has dealt with three budget proposals, a crisis package after a crisis package – I didn't dare write how many there were, in fear of making mistakes, but I choose to say a crisis package after a crisis package – a big message of perspective and a number of other important issues. It has become late evenings, sometimes long nights and broken deadlines. We've probably helped to maybe give some people to follow up what we're doing, some gray hair, especially here in the house, and maybe we've also got some gray hair ourselves, but I hope we've managed to land on the legs of the important things. I don't think, and hope not, we'll ever experience this year and a half again. Let's not hope that. But if that were to happen, I've learned one thing that makes me safe. It is that, across political divisions, we are able to come together when the country is in crisis. I also want to say a few words to both the committee and colleagues at Stortinget. It is primarily about giving a great deal of thanks to all the colleagues in the committee, not least all those who have been on throughout the last year and a half, but also before the coronary crisis. It's been a good time for the finance committee, and we've been working on a lot of good things together. I would like to thank the secretariat of the Committee, other employees of the Stortinget, and not least the presidency for good cooperation. I would also like to thank Minister Sanner and his staff for their good cooperation with the Financial Committee. With this I wish all good colleagues a good summer, and before it waits for an important vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e2800	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 4-6.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e2813	State Council Jan Tore Sanner wants to deliver 4 kgl. propositions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e2824	The size then goes to voting on the case no. 4–6 on today’s map.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e2836	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e2939	During the debate, Kari Elisabeth Kaski put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that public enterprises can also receive the same reimbursement as private operators for carrying out testing for corona certificates as described in Prop. 219 S [[2020-2021]] The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e3101	A total of 216 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-15 and 217, from Hadia Tajik on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 16 and 17, from Sigbjørn Gælsvik on behalf of the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green and Red Party the proposals No 18-22, by Hans Andreas Limi on behalf of the Progress Party proposal No 23, from Sigbjørn Gælsvik on behalf of the Centre Party and Red the proposals No 24–32, from Sigbjørn Gælsvik on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No 33, from Kari Elisabeth Kaski on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Greens the proposals No 34-111, from Kari Elisabeth Kaski on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 112–153 from Per Espen Stoknes on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA the proposals No 154-184, from the Bears Moxnes on behalf of the Red proposal No 185, from Mudasar Kapur on behalf of the Right, the Party of Advancement, the Left and Christian People's Party the proposals No 186-188, from Per Espen Stoknes on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA proposal No 190, from Kari Elisabeth Kaski on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 191-193, from Sigbjørn Gælsvik on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 194-214, from Bjørn Moxnes on behalf of Red proposal No 215, from Mudasar Kapur, on behalf of the Financial Committee proposal No 216, from Torgair Knag County, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party The President noted that proposal No. 189 were not taken up and that the proposals No. 10, 30 and 109 are identical, and that only petitions are made on proposal No. 10th@item: inlistbox The President will first vote on the motions in the vote, then solve the proposals and then finalise the recommendation. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 154, 159, 169 and 181 from Red. Proposal No. 154 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2021 is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e26215	Proposal No. 159 sounds: «The government is asked to reintroduce full compensation for income up to 6 G for a minimum of 20 days for new leave out of 2021.» Proposal No. 169 sounds: ‘I In its Decision of 15 December 2020 on taxes on income and wealth, etc. for the 2021 year of income, the following shall be amended: the fourth indent of the first paragraph of Section 3-1 is replaced by the following: - 21.2 pst. for the part of the income exceeding NOK 1021 550. II The amendments under I shall enter into force immediately.» Proposal No. 181 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to establish an equal pay pot for pay increases in women’s dominated professions in the public sector, which are in addition to the regular tariffs and are allocated after negotiations between the social partners, and the equal pay pot is to be increased annually for a four-year period with the aim of achieving full equal pay.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e26248	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 172, 176–179 and 183 from Red. Proposal No. 172 sounds: ‘The government is asking for different models to be developed by the government in order to increase the taxation of large corporations engaged in the rental of commercial property and to propose such increased taxation in the State budget for 2022.’ Proposal No. 176 sounds: «The government is asked to submit proposals for increased tax on company profits in the State budget for 2022.» Proposal No. 177 sounds like: ‘The government of the State budget for 2022 is asked to submit proposals for temporary or permanent changes to the tax system to help finance the actions undertaken in response to the coronary apathy. The proposed changes shall have a progressive arrangement and ensure that persons with high income and/or large wealth have to pay more in tax.» Proposal No. 178 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to submit proposals to prohibit private employment services for non-production enterprises and to reintroduce a comprehensive public employment service with the aim of full employment.’ Proposal No. 179 sounds: ‘The government requests a proposal for a temporary cut for the period July to December 2021 of 1 percentage point in the employer’s fee in municipalities with a national average free.’ Proposal No. 183 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government in the context of the State budget for 2022 to file a case on the establishment of a six-hour day fund for the implementation of pilot projects with shorter working hours in the municipal sector as a measure for increased employment and better employment.’ The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e26293	There is a vote on proposal No. 175 and 184 from Red. Proposal No. 175 sounds: ‘The government asks that individual companies and groups which have received State and/or municipal support under the coronary pandemic should make the grant received visible in the annual accounts of each company and summarised for the group where applicable.’;» Proposal No. 184 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the alerts from the Home Office’s intervention forces, which have raised the issue of unlawful practices concerning holiday money and the employment status of volunteer workers in the Home Office and have been brought to justice by the Ministry of Defence, are compensated for their actual costs, including their own work and time spent.’ The Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e26318	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 162, 167, 170, 171, 173 and 174 from Red. Proposal No. 162 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that all persons who have received a daily allowance in 2020 also receive a holiday allowance in 2021.’ Proposal No. 167 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to make the necessary changes to ensure that the redundancy payment scheme works in line with the National Social Security Act § 1-1 [[Subject matter]] Proposal No. 170 sounds: ‘The Government is asked by the Government to provide that establishments receiving support from the business compensation scheme from the month of March onwards undertake not to pay dividends in 2021 and 2022, unless the aid received is first repaid. As part of the regulation, the government is asked to grant an exemption from this dividend prohibition in very specific cases upon application.’ Proposal No. 171 sounds: «The Government is asked by the Government to provide that undertakings receiving support from the business compensation scheme from the month of March onwards undertake not to pay bonuses, buy back own shares or increase management or management fees in 2021 and 2022, unless aid received is first repaid.» Proposal No. 173 sounds: ‘The Government of the State budget for 2022 is asked to explain the effect of the coronary apnea on the distribution of income and wealth in Norway, including an assessment of the impact of the mechanism on the various aid measures on the economic inequality.’ Proposal No. 174 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to strengthen the control of the support schemes for business set up under the Coronapandemic and to return to the Stortinget as soon as possible with proposals for necessary increases in appropriations to the control authorities.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e26363	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 180 and 182, from Red. Proposal No. 180 sounds: ‘The government does not ask to earmark funds for the purchase of private specialist health services, nor to ensure that these funds are used to strengthen the public health service.’ Proposal No. 182 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the right of undocumented pregnant women to the necessary health care before and after birth is not invoiced so that women do not receive an invoice when they are born in hospital.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e26387	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 166 and 168 from Red. Proposal No. 166 reads: «The government is asked to continue the temporary extension of the benefit periods for recipients of redundancy payments out of the year.» Proposal No. 168 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that municipalities keep the total amount of child benefit out of the income base in the calculation of social assistance and to provide compensation in the State budget for 2022.’ The centre party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e26411	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 155, 157, 160, 161 and 163-165, from Red. Proposal No. 155 sounds: ‘The government is asked to continue with an increase in the daily allowance of 80 pst. for income up to 3 G until 31 December 2021.» Proposal No. 157 sounds: «The government is asked to continue the reduced minimum income requirement in order to qualify for the daily allowance until 31 December 2021.» Proposal No. 160 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to the Grand Duchy in connection with the State budget for 2022 with proposals for permanent increases in social benefits and social security contributions from the population’. Proposal No. 161 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that all long-term beneficiaries of daily allowances are allowed to extend the maximum social benefit period until 31 December 2021.’ Proposal No. 163 sounds: ‘The government asks the Tax Administration to authorise the day-to-day payroll by deleting all or part of the debts of persons who have outstanding day-to-day payroll after receiving advance payments, after an overall assessment of the individual’s economy, in order to avoid that the collection of day-to-day payroll is an additional burden for those who have already taken the highest cost of the coronary crisis.’ Proposal No. 164 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to extend the duration of benefits to self-employed and freelancers for the year and to increase the level of compensation for income up to 3 G to 80 pst.’ Proposal No. 165 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to extend the temporary compensation benefit for apprentices also for new cases out of the year.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e26461	There is a vote on proposal No. 158 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to amend the terms of the daily allowance until 31 December 2021, so that the daily allowance does not lapse until the amount of work exceeds 80 pst. of normal working hours.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e26478	There is a vote on proposal No. 156 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government requests the removal of the waiting days in the day-to-day arrangements until 31 December 2021.» The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e26496	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 112 and 114 from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 112 sounds: The State budget for 2021 is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e49247	Proposal No. 114 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a new climate and nature percentage to be added to today’s aid efforts, at the latest in the State budget for 2022.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e49260	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 117, 120, 132 and 142 from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 117 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to convert all Corona loans into scholarships in the State Loan Fund.’ Proposal No. 120 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the establishment of a cultural dissemination programme for kindergarten children, in accordance with the model of the cultural school system. [[DCS]] Proposal No. 132 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the introduction of online content into curricula already in primary school.’ Proposal No. 142 sounds: ‘The government is asked to incorporate a prerequisite into the mandate of the Export Strategy Council to work to promote exports from all sectors except oil and gas.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e49294	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 113, 116 and 131, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 113 sounds like: ‘The Government of the State budget for 2022 is asked to return with a green aid promise, inter alia, by giving priority to the guarantee scheme for investments in renewable energy in developing countries.’ Proposal No. 116 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to liquidate the ‘Oil for Development’ and to transfer the resources to ‘Clean Energy for Development’.’ Proposal No. 131 reads: ‘The government asks the government to propose how media support can be used to support editorial innovation against networks’.» The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e49323	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 115, 121, 122, 124, 126, 130, 135-138, 140, 141, 144, 147, 149, 151 and 152 from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 115 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the extension of the Climate and Forest Initiative to an international nature project.’ Proposal No. 121 reads: ‘The government is asked to draw up and implement a national action plan against the grids before the default of 2021.’ Proposal No. 122 sounds: ‘The government asks the PST to be mandated to provide protection and redress for particularly vulnerable local politicians and profiled social debaters.’ Proposal No. 124 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to instruct the police to prioritize the investigation and prosecution of reported and illegal networks.’ Proposal No. 126 sounds: ‘The government is asking for strength and clarification of the paragraph of racism so as to facilitate the prosecution of hateful statements.’ Proposal No. 130 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a legislative proposal to include gender in the penal code’s section on hateful expressions.’ Proposal No. 135 sounds: «The government is asked to continue the daily allowance of 80 pst. on the basis of 2021.» Proposal No. 136 sounds: ‘The government is asked to continue to reduce the requirements for lost working time in order to qualify for daily allowances by 2021.’ Proposal No. 137 sounds like: ‘The government is asked to continue the reduction in income base requirements in order to qualify for a lump sum of 2021.’» Proposal No. 138 sounds: ‘The government requests the extension of the maximum daily allowance period so that everyone who is currently in receipt of a daily allowance is entitled to this effect by 2021.’ Proposal No. 140 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to continue the daily allowance for freelancers and self-employed persons out of 2021.’ Proposal No. 141 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a return to the state budget for 2022 in order to secure the Sjunkhatten Public High School investment funds across different departments for a universally adapted new building to be completed in the autumn of 2024. At the same time, it shall be assessed whether State Building can be responsible for the construction.» Proposal No. 144 sounds: ‘The government is asked to work actively to include emissions from shipping in the EU ETS Trade Directive and to establish CO 2 taxes on all international shipping in the long term.’ Proposal No. 147 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with proposals for a system that gives the county municipalities and administrative companies economic space for action to adapt the collective offer to a new normal situation.’ Proposal No. 149 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to come back as soon as possible with proposals for reduced ticket prices, already for the current year, on long-distance trains in Norway and Sweden.’ Proposal No. 151 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back with proposals for a system that allows train companies to switch to new travel habits and to strengthen the offer of trains and the competitiveness of air traffic.’ Proposal No. 152 sounds: ‘The Government requests the amendment of the rules for the marking of aviation barriers so that warning lights are activated only when there is air traffic in the vicinity of objects requiring lighting marking or when the Defence implements drills. As part of this, mandatory installation of the necessary transponder equipment in all civil aircraft must be carried out by 1 January 2022.» The Socialist Left and Red have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e49429	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 123, 125, 127–129, 143, 145, 148, 150 and 153 from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 123 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen the police network patrol and hate group vigorously by setting up several hate-crime groups.’ Proposal No. 125 sounds: ‘The government requests the creation of a dedicated, user-friendly network solution that makes it easy to notify the police’s online network group and to report the network.’; Proposal No. 127 sounds like: ‘The government asks the government to propose regulation of technology companies such as Facebook and YouTube to ensure that racist and anti-Semitic statements and conspiracy theories are not spread through the company’s algorithms.’ Proposal No. 128 sounds: ‘The Government is asked by the Government to impose on social media providers in Norway procedures for combating illegal hate speech and the dissemination of deliberately misleading content. [[including Deepfakes]] Proposal No. 129 reads: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate and propose a law responsible for the administrators of network platforms.’ Proposal No. 143 sounds: ‘The Board agrees that the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries may, in 2021, authorise the Export Credit Guarantee Institute to increase its guarantee to banks on guarantees and building loan frameworks for shipyards from 50 to 75 p.m. provided that it is linked to the construction of zero- and low-emission boats, ferries and ships.» Proposal No. 145 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to implement a rescue plan for Norwegian villas. The plan shall contain concrete proposals for measures to strengthen Norwegian wild salmon populations and measures to prevent one of the main causes of increased mortality for the wild species, namely salmon and escaped farmed salmon.» Proposal No. 148 sounds: ‘The Government requests that the county councils and the administrative companies ensure compensation for the loss of ticket revenue until they have sufficient knowledge of changed travel habits and until the necessary conversion can be carried out.’ Proposal No. 150 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the prompt return of proposals for flexible ticket solutions across train companies, already for the current year, for example through a national ‘interrail ticket’.’ Proposal No. 153 sounds: ‘The government is asking for measures to be taken by the government to facilitate entry into the housing market for first-time buyers, such as: exemption from the document fee for first purchasers.’;» The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e49494	There is a vote on proposal No. 119, 134 and 139 from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 119 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a proposal for a national agency for post-secondary school students in connection with the State budget for 2022.’ Proposal No. 134 sounds: ‘The government requests the extension of the temporary AAP scheme by 2021.’ Proposal No. 139 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to continue the daily allowance for apprentices out of 2021.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e49523	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 118, 133 and 146 from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 118 sounds: «The government is asked to engage in dialogue with the county councils in order to establish up to 1000 additional vocational schools for the autumn.» Proposal No. 133 sounds: ‘The Government requests the extension of the terms of reference of the Working Group between the Government and the KS, which assesses the need for compensation for the local government sector, from 1 July 2021 until 1 January 2022.’ Proposal No. 146 sounds: ‘The government requests the calculation of an interest rate supplement for the compensation of lost stocks corresponding to the late interest rate of the State from 1 March 2021 until the time when the grant scheme opens for applications.’; The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e49552	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 34 and 89, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 34 sounds: The State budget for 2021 is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e72237	Proposal No. 89 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish a green state investment company to invest, inter alia, in liquid sea wind, bio-industry, carbon capture and storage, battery production, hydrogen and green shipping.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e72250	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 35, 37, 38, 40, 45, 48-51 and 57, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 35 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to reverse the cuts in support of the voluntary legal aid measures in the State budget for 2022 and to facilitate a strengthened and more predictable support scheme.’ Proposal No. 37 sounds: ‘The government is asked to continue the grant scheme in order to strengthen low-threshold mental health services in municipalities and to propose similar schemes in the State budget for 2022.’ Proposal No. 38 sounds: «The government asks the government to arrange for medical students who have gone through the Danish tour service [[KBU]] Proposal No. 40 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government to ensure in the revised letter of assignment to health businesses that health businesses set up several educational positions and practical places to train more nurses.’ Proposal No. 45 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the appropriations adopted for the Forest Finnish Museum are paid out so that the construction project can be started as adopted.’ Proposal No. 48 sounds: ‘The Government of the State budget for 2022 is asked to provide figures on how lost revenues and additional costs to municipal cinemas, swimming pools and the like have been compensated for to the municipalities.’ Proposal No. 49 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate coordinated efforts through multilateral channels to enable technology and knowledge transfer to increase global vaccine and drug production in response to the pandemic.’ Proposal No. 50 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the HV soldiers who have been involved in the dispute over holiday money are covered by the actual costs incurred by them in the legal proceedings.’ Proposal No. 51 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to ensure that all recipients of redundancy payments who have not received the job clearance as planned are judged individually and our extended social benefit period is equivalent to the waiting time due to the covid-19 pandemic.’ Proposal No. 57 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to review the law and propose changes to remove barriers to reuse and repair.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e72316	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 36, 39, 44, 47 and 53, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 36 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to launch pilot projects with local teams in primary school on a model from secondary school. The project shall consider whether this can contribute to a better overview and closer follow-up of vulnerable students. Municipalities participating shall be compensated and an follow-up evaluation of the pilot projects shall be carried out.’;» Proposal No. 39 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish a scheme for medical students who have obtained Cand.med.-grad in Denmark, which allows medical authorisation after completion of education, so that they can apply for LIS1 in Norway without having completed the KBU.’ Proposal No. 44 sounds: ‘The government is asked to extend the timeframe for the compensation and incentive schemes for culture, volunteering and sport by 2021.’ Proposal No. 47 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that Trandum’s healthcare is placed under public health care.’ Proposal No. 53 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that recipients of redundancy benefits who have also been allowed to extend their period of benefits when or have reached the maximum between 30 November 2020 and 1 July 2021.’; The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has announced its support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e72356	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 41, 43, 52, 60, 61, 63, 66 and 74, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 41 sounds: ‘The size asks the Government of the State budget for 2022 to set up a probationary system with selected health establishments where all posts are published as a whole but where it is possible to have a reduced position on the basis of agreement.’ Proposal No. 43 sounds: ‘The Government, in consultation with key actors in the cultural field, is asked to review the scheme under the heading. 325 entry 88 in order to better address the diversity of cultural actors, including increasing the ceiling per organiser of the compensation scheme, ensuring support for cultural actors also registered in the Register of Liberalities, and ensuring that support can be sought at the entry into the period for which application is made.’;» Proposal No. 52 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government, in the context of proposals for the State budget for 2022, to reverse the cuts in the system of glasses for children and to ensure that all children in need of glasses are covered.’ Proposal No. 60 sounds: ‘The government requests the introduction of mandatory labelling schemes to indicate the expected service life and the repairability of products’.» Proposal No. 61 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals for a legal right to repair the consumer and the obligation to repair dealers and with proposals to ensure that requirements on durability, access to spare parts and circular design are incorporated into the Consumer Purchases Act.’ Proposal No. 63 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government to investigate and put in place targeted measures to ensure and create new vocational training courses for the circular economy.’ Proposal No. 66 sounds: ‘The government asks it to develop several pledge schemes and to facilitate more re-use, inter alia, by stimulating the establishment of re-use and repair workshops, and to return to the Storting in connection with the State budget for 2022.’ Proposal No. 74 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a ban on substances harmful to the environment and to health which have very well-known adverse effects in product groups such as textiles and recreational and sports equipment worn on the body. The prohibition should also cover groups of harmful substances, not only individual substances.’ The Labour Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e72411	There is a vote on proposal No. 42, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to maintain Siva as an independent player with ownership of innovation companies and with responsibility for the incubation and business garden programmes and the Norwegian Catapult and to transfer the cluster programme from Innovation Norway to Siva’. The Central Party and Red have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e72428	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 46, 54-56, 58, 62, 64, 65, 67 and 73, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 46 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals to ensure that more people can be given the opportunity to have alternative reception facilities and to make alternative reception facilities available for a right of appeal if the application is rejected.’ Proposal No. 54 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to extend today’s permit rules out of the year.’ Proposal No. 55 sounds: ‘The government is asking for its own big business message on the circular economy, setting a target of halving Norway’s material footprint by 2030 and Norway becoming 45 pst. circular by 2030.’» Proposal No. 56 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the introduction of consumption-based climate accounts, through a paper on the circular economy, of greenhouse gas emissions from our consumption according to the model of the Swedish Nature Conservation Agency, and a national statistics on use and waste in Norway and over-materials and waste streams.’ Proposal No. 58 sounds: ‘The government is asking for zero emissions and for the environment to be at least 50 pst. in all public tender procedures, re-use requirements and circular purchases and investments in public procurement and report back to the State budget for 2022.» Proposal No. 62 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals that ensure free repair choice and make spare parts and service manuals available to all certified repairers during 2021.’ Proposal No. 64 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a case to facilitate new vocational training courses for repairers such as repairers of clothing, telephone and/or electronics repairers.’ Proposal No. 65 sounds: ‘The government is asking for public sharing services such as lending new goods from the libraries and the urban bike systems, and contributing to the establishment of similar arrangements for other goods and functions and returning to the Stortinge in connection with the State budget for 2022.’ Proposal No. 67 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for a ban on the disposal of unsold goods, in accordance with the French product discards law’, and to come back to the Stortinget with proposals in 2021.’ Proposal No. 73 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the delivery of cleaned-up trash to the recovery stations is free, whether it is picked on a beach or in the forest.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e72493	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 59, 68-72 and 84, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 59 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals to extend the guarantee period to five years for several products during 2021.’ Proposal No. 68 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for untapped opportunities to reduce the demolition of buildings and to ensure that the reuse of construction materials and furniture is the main rule in which construction is demolished.’ Proposal No. 69 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a comprehensive national plan for catering. The plan shall include measures to achieve zero emissions of plastic to nature and for the cleaning up of plastic garbage and other bulking throughout Norway.’;» Proposal No. 70 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with proposals for measures to replace the use of fossil plastics with recycled and renewable plastics.’ Proposal No. 71 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals for increased requirements for the recycling of plastic materials and with requirements for the use of recycled and renewable raw materials.’ Proposal No. 72 sounds: ‘The government is asking for several types of plastic packaging to be pledged by the government.’ Proposal No. 84 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with proposals for a strengthening of the solar support schemes.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e72544	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 75 and 110, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 75 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to explore the possibility of full use of the Nussir mining project in Kvalsund and to demand increased use of resources.’ Proposal No. 110 sounds: «The government is asked to ensure that reductions in ferry prices are targeted to the benefit of residents.» The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has announced its support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e72568	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 76 to 79, 82, 83, 86 to 88, 92, 96 to 99, 102 and 105 to 108, of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 76 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to determine how a principle of spatial neutrality can be implemented in the administration. Land neutrality must mean that no major intervention can be planned without the restoration of an equivalent area.» Proposal No. 77 sounds: ‘The government is asking for international legislation for the protection of climate refugees and internally displaced persons as a result of natural disasters and the destruction of natural habitats.’ Proposal No. 78 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an assessment of how rights to climate refugees are to be managed so that persons are not returned to disaster-affected areas if their lives and health are at risk but are allowed to remain on a humanitarian basis.’ Proposal No. 79 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set a target for Norway to be tropical deforestation-free by 2025.’ Proposal No. 82 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the oil fund and state-owned companies do not invest in enterprises that contribute to the destruction of rainforest or other threatened nature.’ Proposal No. 83 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to come back to Stortinget with proposals for legislation requiring the public procurement of goods to be deforestation-free.’ Proposal No. 86 sounds: ‘The government is asking for requirements for the use of solar cells on public buildings, new buildings and in the case of restoration.’ Proposal No. 87 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that all new developments on the Norwegian socket and extensions of existing production on the socket are subject to a climate risk analysis stress test where future societal profitability becomes crucial. The analysis shall take into account that the world achieves the objectives of the Paris Agreement and frees itself from fossil energy. The climate risk analysis shall be part of the decision-making basis on whether to extend a field or extend the lifetime of a field.’;» Proposal No. 88 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that all projects on the Norwegian continental shelf with a total investment of more than 5 billion. crowns per project are treated by Stortinget.» [[plans for deployment/installation and operation]] Proposal No. 92 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a wide-ranging sample to be drawn up to include the social partners, which is to establish a plan for the conversion of the oil and gas industries to green industrial workplaces. The aim of the selection must be to create 10,000 new jobs each year from 2022 to 2030.» Proposal No. 96 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government in the context of the State budget of 2022 to come back with proposals to change Tax findings in order to exclude research and development in the petroleum industry and other fossil industries from the scheme.’ Proposal No. 97 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back with proposals to introduce a new finding scheme – Environmental findings. The scheme is in addition to Tax Find. The new scheme shall provide tax credits for research and development in environmental technologies, circular forms of production and business models, and for their conversion. In order to generate incentives for green research and development, the new scheme shall be more favourable than tax findings.’;» Proposal No. 98 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and assess how the discovery schemes can contribute to an increase in the level of organisation and apprenticeship participation.’ Proposal No. 99 sounds: ‘The government is requesting the full amount of the municipal compensation scheme granted to the municipalities to be paid as soon as possible.’ Proposal No. 102 sounds: ‘The Government is requesting a conversion tax on the extraction of petroleum. The proceeds of the levy shall be earmarked for the development of zero and low-emission energy.’;» Proposal No. 105 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to recover and introduce a levy that will progressively make it more expensive to use non-renewable inputs such as virgin fossil plastics and return to the Storting in connection with the national budget for 2022.’ Proposal No. 106 sounds: ‘The government is requesting a levy on the landfill of residues.’ Proposal No. 107 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a levy to be paid on the extraction of virgin mass in order to promote the use of residues.’ Proposal No. 108 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to draw up a plan on how the real economic resources of society should be allocated between different sectors of the economy in order to achieve ambitious goals of industrial sports from the mainland and obligations under the Paris Agreement, just as we did when we built up the petroleum industry. Means of channelling labour and capital into the desired productive activity, as well as its impact on other sectors of the economy and their remedial measures, need to be explored.» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e72680	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 80, 81, 85, 91 and 94, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 80 sounds: ‘The government is asking for measures to prevent the placing on the market of biofuels based on raw materials with a high deforestation risk, such as palm oil and soya.’ Proposal No. 81 sounds: ‘The government is asking for measures to reduce the consumption of raw materials with a high deforestation risk, such as soya for animal and fish feed.’ Proposal No. 85 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals to remove the obstacles to the solar cell installation legislation.’ Proposal No. 91 reads: ‘The government is asking for the establishment of a national employment strategy, including a job creation programme, in which the need for public and private sector labour is identified in the future and where action is needed to meet needs. The strategy shall include competence programmes, cross-governmental cooperation and incentive schemes. The aim is to guarantee a job or schooling for all employees in the green shift.» Proposal No. 94 sounds: ‘The government is asked to change the arrangements of the municipal compensation scheme so that the distribution key is based on actual unemployment rates, not population figures. All municipalities must be included in the scheme.» The Labour Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e72720	There is a vote on proposal No. 90, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that Norway joins the Important Projects of Common European Interest in battery production and to take initiatives for new establishments in liquid sea wind, bio industry, zero-emission shipping and carbon capture and storage.’ [[IPCEI]] The Labour Party and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e72739	President, I voted wrong. I was supposed to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e72744	Then it's corrected, and the result is 55 votes against and 32 votes in favour of the proposal of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal is therefore not accepted. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 93, 101 and 103, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 93 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a large-scale recruitment campaign to get young people involved in agriculture, fisheries and reindeer management.’ Proposal No. 101 sounds: ‘The government is asking for good models for better permanent income insurance schemes for freelancers and self-employed persons in the light of the experience with the pandemic.’ Proposal No. 103 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the government to investigate the imposition of overshooting requirements on real estate, as well as restrictions or prohibitions on the use of blanks, in order to prevent challenges such as money laundering and tax evasion.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e72776	There is a vote on proposal No. 95, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to the Storting with proposals to prohibit the payment of dividends by enterprises which have received aid under the compensation schemes introduced by the corona pandemic. Activities which have received aid and paid dividends must repay the aid.» The Labour Party and Red have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e72793	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 100, 104 and 111 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 100 sounds: ‘The Government requests the imposition of a duty exemption for chrysanthemum, alstromeria and GSP+ country bridesmaid.’ Proposal No. 104 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a land use levy on the model of the Green Tax Commission in order to prevent unnecessary degradation of pristine nature.’ Proposal No. 111 sounds: ‘The government requests that the rate of the production fee be set at 2 ø/kWh when the levy is imposed.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e72822	There is a vote on proposal No. 33, from the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a reduction in interest on late payment of deferred claims for companies committed to significant emission reductions from their own business.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e72837	There is a vote on proposal No. Twenty-four, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: The State budget for 2021 is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e96124	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 25, 27, 29 and 32, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up an incentive scheme for the event industry to facilitate the implementation of several smaller events during the period of uncertainty associated with the future infective situation that prevents or impedes the organisation of events with a large number of participants.’ Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The government asks the SIVA to remain an independent actor responsible for the incubation and commercialisation programmes and the Norwegian Catapult.’ Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to continue the ownership of SIVA in innovation companies as today’. Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to issue a supplementary consultation note on the proposed change in the interest rate tax on hydroelectric power plants, which sets out in concrete terms the consequences for the municipalities concerned both in the short and longer term, while at the same time postponing the consultation period to three months after the additional consultation note.’;» The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e96159	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 26 and 31 from the Center Party. Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to initiate a review of Health South-East RHF’s model for the collection and disbursement of investment funds from health care businesses and a review of the Southern Hospital HF’s economy in order to secure investment funds for new women’s clinics and children’s and young people’s wards in Kristiansand.’ Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that Avinor’s conclusion of a tariff-free trade contract for the period 2023-2027 is deferred after the enlargement and accession of the new government, so that any changes to the framework conditions can be taken into account.’ The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e96183	There is a vote on proposal No. 28, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the transfer of administrative responsibility for the cluster programme from Innovation Norway to SIVA.’ The Socialist Left and Red have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e96200	There is a vote on proposal No. 23, from the Center Party and Red. ‘The government is asking for a return to the State budget for 2022, proposing to reduce or delete interest on late payment for companies in particularly severely affected regions or sectors which have been subject to deferred payment for tax claims.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e96215	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 18-20, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 18 sounds: The State budget for 2021 is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e119755	Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asking the government to stop further withdrawals of quota refugees into Norway in 2021.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asked to start work on the establishment of asylum centres in third countries, primarily by taking part in the concluded Memorandum of Understanding between Denmark and Rwanda.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e119776	President, I voted wrong. I had to vote in favour of the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e119781	Then we'll straighten it out, so there'll be 73 votes against and 15 votes in favour of the proposals of the Progress Party. The proposals are therefore not accepted. There is a vote on proposal No. 21, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the Railway Directorate follows up the majority comment of the 2021 state budget on the development of the Sørli terminal. It is important, logical, rational and socio-economical to build sufficient track links with the Sørlie terminal while building the double track beyond the terminal.’» The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e119800	There is a vote on proposal No. 22, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that Kaphtrio is used as soon as possible for the treatment of persons with cystic fibrosis and CAR-T treatment against lymphatic cancer.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e119817	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 16 and 17, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that all large-scale enterprises are included in the loss-of-stock compensation scheme, not only those that have been required to close down.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate and propose the winding-up of the current tax jurisdiction.’ The Labour Party has announced its support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e119843	President, I voted wrong! I had to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e119848	Then we straighten it out, so that there are 46 votes against and 42 votes in favour of the proposals of the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. The proposals are therefore not accepted. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 15 from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: The State budget for 2021 is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e143764	‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e143768	Proposal No. 15 sounds: «The government is asked to change the property tax so that shares, operating assets and commercial property are valued at 80 p.m., the rate is increased to 1,1 p.m. [[with all due liabilities]] with an additional rate for assets exceeding 20 million. krones. [[+0.2 percentage points]] on 1,3 and so that the deduction is increased by 200 000 kroner with effect from 1 July 2021.»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e143781	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3-13, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to be made to tighten up the rental legislation and to remove general access to temporary employment, and to draw up concrete and binding plans, together with the social partners, to ensure that new jobs after the covid-19 pandemic become full-time jobs that reduce unemployment in Norway, and not primarily through the importation of labour, renting and temporary work.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: «The government is asked to ensure that the crisis arrangements for workers, the unemployed and the outsourced are extended as long as the labour market situation indicates the need for extension.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the emergency measures for workers, the unemployed and the outsourced goods are at least as long as the cash support for business.’;» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to engage in dialogue with the social partners and to find a agreed introduction date for the 26 weeks leave period for new cases.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to engage in dialogue with the Norwegian Sports Association in order to prevent the teams from getting an increase in the interim funding period before the application deadline for VAT related to sports facilities is changed.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government of the State budget for 2022 is asked to ensure that regional peace and human rights centres have more equivalent framework conditions in order to promote peace and mutual understanding and, in particular, to target children and young people.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the advance in the study of non-usable Norwegian wells and to facilitate the implementation of new technologies that will reduce costs and emissions.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to change the regulation of pensions during the payment of 2021 in line with the requirements of the LO, YS, FFO and the Pensioners’ Association. This implies that the annual growth rate of the current retirement pension in 2021 is 3.83 pst. rather than 3.58 pst. as the government has committed.’;» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government requests the reintroduction of the holiday supplement as a permanent scheme, in accordance with the same rules as applied before 2015.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess how SIVA’s property investments can be further developed in order to facilitate plots with infrastructure for new industrial start-ups.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the appropriations for prosecutors in the police are made visible in a separate chapter or postal location under programme category 06.40 of the State budget for 2022.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e143852	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure adequate presence and employment in the three Norwegian operating carriers that have operated over time in Norway. The actions of the authorities shall contribute to ensuring permanent and direct employment with Norwegian aviation pay and working conditions. State aid shall not go to the creditors and shareholders of the companies.’;» The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e143869	There is a vote on proposal No. 14, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size asks the government to return to Stortinget as soon as possible with a separate case concerning the introduction of a testing scheme on rolling maximum permitted biomass to contribute to increased processing and value creation.’ [[MTB]] The Central Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e143886	There is a vote on proposal No. 185, from the Right, the Party of Advancement, the Left and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to implement a pilot scheme whereby state, state and industry cooperate in the sharing of advanced equipment between several schools using a mobile device that can operate several schools in one state/region.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e143903	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 186 and 188, by the Greens/Greens/EFA Group. Proposal No. 186 sounds: ‘The size shall be flagged with the Pride flag from the staging building and/or on the outside of the Storting in June 2021, just as the flag law now opens to flag with, inter alia, the Pride flag during the event, marking or public day of public interest from municipal and county buildings.’;» Proposal No. 188 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to stop the work of the Okla wind power plant until a complaint concerning the anchoring method for the wind turbines, which was sent to the Ministry of Oil and Energy on 26 May 2021, has been completed.’ The Socialist Left and Red have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e143928	There is a vote on proposal No. 187, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: 'The government asks the government to come back with an update of 'Report. St. 36 Energy for work? long-term value creation from Norwegian energy resources’ where the IEA’s new report ‘Net Zero by 2050’ is used for assessments and proposals related to the petroleum sector and the power sector.’;» The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e143945	There is a vote on proposal No. 190, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate and return to the Grand Duchy with a proposal on the basis of a concession fee, environmental tax or equivalent in energy legislation so that such a charge can be set in the concession terms. It is central that the charge represents a predictable value-sharing from wind-power builders to the host municipality concerned. The organisations of the power industry and the local government sector must be involved in matters of lawfulness, design and level. A levy shall be designed in such a way that it does not hinder the realisation of socio-economic projects.’;» The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e143962	There is a vote on proposal No. 191, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a proposal for a material charge for the beverage industry, which premises the use of renewable and recycled materials, to replace the current packaging charge. Competitiveness of products currently exempt from the levy must not be reduced and design must take place in dialogue with the industries concerned.» The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e143979	There is a vote on proposal No. 192, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the submission of an aviation compensation scheme as soon as possible, in line with the framework for a possible compensation scheme as presented by the Government in the proposal for RNB 2021 and contributing to the compensation of the major losses caused by aviation in the pandemic.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e143994	There is a vote on proposal No. 193, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked by the government to come back with a proposal for the introduction of a natural resource tax on wind power outside the income balancing scheme for municipalities and counties in order to compensate the communities concerned.» The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e144012	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 197, 200 and 211, from Red. Proposal No. 197 sounds: «The size agrees to the fixing of the following allowances with effect from 1 May 2021: Biggest representatives: SEK 790 398 per year? Government members: $1,128,058 per year? Prime Minister: SEK 1 388 546 per year» Proposal No. 200 sounds: ‘The government is asking for adequate resources to ensure the Planning and Building Set to increase the supervision of the illegal rental of apartments not authorised for permanent residence and to impose more stringent sanctions on lessors who hire illegally.’ Proposal No. 211 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the establishment of a national industrial fund in which a share of the oil fund is set aside to make strategic investments in domestic industrial production with a view to ensuring technological development, increased exports of goods, several industrial workplaces, increased value creation and further processing in Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e144041	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 194, 203, 206, 209 and 212, from Red. Proposal No. 194 sounds: ‘The government is asking for increased resources and predictability as soon as possible for organisations offering holiday activities to families who need them, so that this offer can be strengthened already during the summer and extend the offer, inter alia, during weekends, harvest and winter holidays for the rest of the year.’ Proposal No. 203 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to allow municipalities to adjust their nursery facilities locally, including the distinction between non-profit and commercial private kindergartens.’ Proposal No. 206 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and make proposals to prevent the export of outsourced ships and ship hulls that cause environmental problems in other countries, and instead to ensure that they are dismantled and recycled in Norway in accordance with strict material reuse, management of pollutants and local emissions.’ Proposal No. 209 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a plan to ensure the training of sufficient industrial skilled workers to ensure that skilled labour is available to the industry.’ Proposal No. 212 sounds: ‘The government is asking to return to Stortinget with a plan to expand and exploit the state ownership of Norwegian industry to maintain and further develop industrial production in Norway, increase the level of further processing and recycling and ensure longer value chains in Norwegian industry.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Greens have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e144081	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 195, 204 and 207 from Red. Proposal No. 195 sounds: ‘The government is asking for funding for summer grant cards to families who need it, which voluntary organisations can offer to those who do not have room for organised holiday activities this year because of a lot of work being done. Gift cards shall be available on tickets for experiences such as swimming, zoo, cinema or other recreational activities that are not already free of charge.’ Proposal No. 204 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure the necessary review of payments made by commercial kindergartens in wages and salaries and dividends to owners and other related transfers, to ensure that funds not used in accordance with the requirements of the Children’s Court Act for the reimbursement of allowances and parental benefits to children in kindergarten and to return with the necessary amendments to the Children’s Gardens Act so that the owner can no longer dispose of any surplus free of charge.’ Proposal No. 207 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to investigate and propose to the Storting to establish a shipbuilding hull production plant over 75 metres in relation to the existing yard industry in an appropriate location, in order to facilitate more maritime value creation in Norway.’ The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e144110	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 196, 198 and 210, from Red. Proposal No. 196 sounds: ‘The full power to exceed the size consents to the Ministry of Children and Family in 2021 being able to exceed the ceiling. 846 Item 61 National grant scheme to include children and young people, in order to grant additional applications from the organisations covered, as far as they have the capacity to cover the increased attendance.» Proposal No. 198 sounds like: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals to ensure that a transfer and disclosure obligation is imposed on the purchase and sale of housing, as well as on inheritance and change, in order to ensure the transparency of real ownership of all properties.’ Proposal No. 210 sounds: ‘The government requests the establishment of a public recruitment scheme for the yard industry and other industries, which facilitates the lending of labour between production companies, replaces rentals with permanent employment and ensures working hours/conditions adapted to permanent residents in Norway.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e144139	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 199, 202 and 208 from Red. Proposal No. 199 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that companies only receive money from the compensation scheme for lost income from legal activities, including that rental companies have to demonstrate that the rental properties for which they are applying for compensation are approved for renting the Plan and Building Set. No such documentation shall be provided, and aid received in the past shall also be required to be recovered.’;» Proposal No. 202 sounds: «The government asks the government to wind up the loan scheme for private kindergartens in the House Bank but to ensure that ideal kindergartens have access to loans in the House Bank for major maintenance and rehabilitation projects.» Proposal No. 208 sounds: ‘The Government is asked by the Government to investigate and propose to the Storting that industrial aid schemes provide for increased and continuous operation and industrial work in Norwegian shipyards for the re-circulation of depleted maritime tonnage.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e144168	There is a vote on proposal No. 201, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to propose a pension model for private kindergartens that compensates for actual pension costs and to assess similar grant schemes for other expenditures, in order to ensure better coherence between actual costs and level of grants, in order to benefit children in kindergarten from grants and parental benefit.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e144186	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 205, 213 and 214 from Red. Proposal No. 205 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to investigate and propose the establishment of environmental stations for end-of-life oil installations in connection with the existing shipbuilding industry to carry out tasks related to the remediation, dismantling and recycling of the oil installations.’ Proposal No. 213 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to investigate and submit proposals to strengthen acquisition and concession laws to protect Norwegian industry from foreign purchases.’ Proposal No. 214 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and come back to Stortinget with a plan to stop the flagging off of profitable industry in Norway and to pursue an active policy to bring back the previously flagged industry.’ The Central Party has announced its support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e144215	There is a vote on proposal No. 215, from the Financial Committee. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2021 is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e144496	There is a vote on proposal No. 216, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to instruct the North not to implement UN plans to move mental health and the drug clinic from Åsgård to Breivika in Tromsø.’ The Central Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e144513	There is a vote on proposal No. 217, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals to incorporate the ILO core conventions into the Human Rights Act.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e144530	The size has now voted on all opposition parties' primary proposals for a framework. The President has understood that in order to avoid long and complicated voting, all parties are prepared to vote for the recommendation. The condition for this is, of course, that this is not used against the lots on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e144537	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e169189	It shall be counted against C I, IV, VI and VIII.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e169197	That's right, it's right over C.II. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e169211	It shall be added to C III, V and VII. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e169238	Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e169287	It shall be weighed over D II, III, V and VI. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e169301	It's over D IV. The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e169315	It's over D VII. The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e169329	It's over D VIII. The Labour Party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-18.ana.ud246e169567	Dear co-representatives! Unless something unexpected should occur, this is the last meeting of the big period. So the President wants to say a few words before the meeting ends. We, who were elected to represent our people in the nation's national assembly four years ago, could not foresee the challenges that should shape our function. The same can be said of all newly elected deposits. The period we're now laying behind is still going to take a good place in the stories of Norwegian history. Our work was influenced by the fact that we went from minority government to majority government, and then back again. Most of course, the period will be remembered for more than a year and a half of it being carried out under a pandemic that marked the whole world. The pandemic still affects us, both nationally and internationally. We don't know what the long-term consequences of it will be for us as individuals and societies, but we know that here in Norway we will get more well-being through the pandemic than many others, and that, among other things, it will. because of the decisions we have taken here in this Chamber. A pandemic stops a lot of society, but it doesn't relieve the Storting of our tasks. We should therefore be pleased that, through joint efforts, we have also succeeded in keeping the ordinary parliamentary activity of the Storting up through the crisis. More than that, we've been dealing with a lot of things in this maybe the strangest of periods of growth, at least in recent times. There have never been more proposals for representatives in a session, 298, or more than 672, than in the current one. The data volume in the given settings has increased by as much as two and a half times from the previous to this session. There is a lot of writing and reading in Stortingen's offices. There have been 393 meetings in Stortinget during this period. The government has promoted 746 cases for the Storting and made 66 presentations. The representatives have promoted 886 proposals for representatives. The government has responded to 180 interviews and the committees have issued 1909 opinions. The number of written questions put by representatives is now 7,885, while 975 questions have been asked in the ordinary Question Time and 574 in the oral Question Time. This would not have been possible without concentration, willingness to cooperate and the sense of responsibility of each representative, each party group and our administrative support apparatus. I would like to thank each of you for the responsible work that has been carried out during the majorization period that is behind us. I would also like to thank the government for its good cooperation. Thanks also to the Storting Administration for their efforts and the press for their cooperation. The time has come to wish everyone a good and safe journey home and a really good summer. Then the President will ask the representatives to sign the submitted protocol, and we will comply with the rules on the protection of infection. Thus, today's map has been processed, and I declare with this the 165th anniversary of the completion. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
