ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e37	The representative, Kristoffer Robin Haug, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e42	On behalf of the representative Irene Ojala and myself, I have the honour of promoting representative proposals to ensure a good hospital offer for patients in the field of mental health protection and multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e47	The representative, Jan Tore Sanner, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e52	On behalf of Erna Solberg, Margret Hagerup, Kari-Anne Jønes, Turid Kristensen, Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde and myself, I would like to propose a comprehensive reform of high school.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e57	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The President will draw attention to the fact that case No. 1 on today's map has not been out in the regulatory time, i.e. 48 hours, cf. Paragraph 46 of the Rules of Procedure. However, the President will propose that the matter be examined. – No objection has been raised, and it is deemed to have been adopted. Furthermore, the President will state that there will be voting in case no. 1 now initially, and the President therefore asks the representatives to sit a little more. The President will inform you that today's meeting will continue beyond noon. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e81	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e93	The Presidency had set the Storting to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e7811	Case No. 2 and 3 will be treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e7834	The debate takes place over two days and begins with speeches by parliamentary leaders of up to 10 minutes, followed by a row of up to seven lines for each post. Then there will be 43 posts of up to 5 minutes, which will be closed in full on the first day of the debate and distributed among the parties as follows: Part of the work 14 articles, Right 10 posts, Party 7 posts, Party of Progress 5 posts, Party of Social Left 3 posts, Item of Red 2 and Item of Left 2. Four lines are opened after two of the entries from the Labour Party, the Right and the Centre Parties and after one of the entries from the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Red and Left Parties. Five government councils shall be given a speaking time of up to 5 minutes each, with a subsequent row of up to seven lines. After completion of the allocated speaking time, open for articles of up to 3 minutes. The first day of the debate shall end at the latest by 10 a.m. 22nd@item: inlistbox Thursday's meeting will be set at 2.30 p.m. 10 and starting with a post from the Prime Minister of up to 15 minutes, followed by a row of 14 rows, broken down by size, then any remaining three minutes from today's meeting, as well as those who sign up during Thursday's debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e7853	The harvest’s decision to raise the stakes gave a clear signal that Norway wanted a political shift. Six out of ten voters voted for a game in opposition to the right government. The two largest-relapse lots were just the two largest right-hand parts, the Right and the Advance Party. The voters were informed that they wanted a new government and not least a new policy. The new Workers' Party-Center Party government presented on Monday a statement that will provide Norway with a new and more equitable course. It has become a platform that is in line with what we went to elections and that is right for the challenges facing Norway. Because on the way into this ageing period, there is no concealment that the tasks are large, both in the short and long term. The Labour Party went to the elections on a policy for ordinary people. There was a message of people, if not the parties on the right-hand side, recognized themselves in. After eight years of right-wing policy, people wanted a new course. People had been tired of unsocial and unfair cuts, while the country's wealthiest became tax collectors in the budget by budget, that workers were left with the bill through increased taxes when budgets were to be settled, that power was shifted from employee to employer, that ever new privatisation reforms in health care were more important than resolving the fixed crisis and giving hospitals the resources they were promised before Solberg's government joined, that welfare services and security were weakened, and that differences increased, both socially, geographically and economically. So rather than defending this policy, the Right election campaign started by doing what they do best, by attacking – not on the political solutions of the Labour Party, but on the message. As Vice President Tina Bru said, when she devoted all her national meeting speech to attacking the Workers' Party, who are really ordinary people? – Just having to ask the question after eight years in government may say more than all the world’s TV debates and newspaper headlines can do. But it doesn't seem like the voters thought it was so hard to understand, and the government platform that was presented last week is just this: a platform that points out the course for a better everyday life for people all over Norway – people who go to work, bikes to work and train commuter to work, people who, because of injury or illness, can no longer go to work, people who are concerned about the security of basic welfare services, whether it's for a father who needs care, a friend who needs cancer treatment, or a grandchildren who in the autumn have had their first school day, people who run ambulances on narrow roads, people who are afraid that the ambulance won't come in time when they need it, and people who try to get the family economy to go up with an average income. These are the ones we in this room are here for, these are the ones we're going to make policy for. The Hurdal platform states that working for everyone in a safe working life is the key to fairer distribution and freedom for individuals, for families throughout the country, for the many who are out of work, and for many who have a job they experience insecurity in. Whole, regular jobs and a salary to live from provide basic security. That is why we need to remove general access to temporary employment and to stop hiring that is in need of permanent employment. We're going to introduce what we call a Norwegian model, which ensures skilled workers and apprentices a serious working life. It is good for individual workers, but also important for enterprises, the labour force and society at large. So we can say the same thing about the renewal and strengthening of tripartite cooperation. We double the union deduction, and we ensure that the social partners are represented in all relevant government committees. However, ensuring a safe working life is also about taking action to ensure that there are jobs in tomorrow's working life. We have opted for a fair climate policy, which cuts emissions and creates jobs, and they will come in green industries. It is not a change that has been made overnight, but with a targeted effort for increased exports and a state and a community that takes responsibility and supports the new industries, we are going to get it done. A number of new jobs in new green industries are essential for achieving climate goals, but also for making the transition fair. When we say we're going to put ordinary people first, it's about turning around a trend where a few run away, and the great majority will be left with the bill. It is therefore so important for the Workers' Party to combat inequality and injustice. In recent years, differences have increased in Norway. The previous government contributed to this development in some areas. It's politics. In other areas, it did little to stop ongoing developments. It's also politics. Either the cause is active action or the lack of action, the consequence is the same, and we should reverse this development. We're going to stop a number of the unsocial and unfair cuts of the previous government, which have hit some of the least, most hard. Brilliant support for children shall be put back in place, the unemployed and the trainees shall be refunded the holiday allowance, and people receiving the redundancy allowance shall not be thrown out of the scheme until they have been completed. We're going to make it more reasonable for the workers to get to work. Those who depend on the ferry, and those who commute, and who have taken the bill for right-wing policy for several years, will get more in the wallet. And we're going to do something about taxes and taxes. For too many years, the biggest tax cuts have come to those who are already in good shape. We say that those who make NOK 750,000 or less will get the same or lower tax, while those who earn more will also contribute more. The same is true of those with wealth. It's redistribution, and it's fair. When we say that we put ordinary people first, it's also about restoring a basic security for important welfare services. It is about ensuring access to what is closest to us in life, such as good health services, kindergartens and schools, but also the more critical functions, such as ambulances, fire and rescue and police — that these services are available to everyone, no matter what you serve, or where you live. We need to strengthen the fixed medical system, make a powerful force for mental health and ensure that hospitals have a good enough economy to provide all citizens with sound and safe treatment, instead of spending money on expensive and inadequate privatisation reforms. We need to strengthen the presence and presence of the police throughout the country. Good kindergartens and schools with enough staff and enough time are not just good for children; it is a cornerstone of the security of society. Several qualified teachers with more time for each individual are key to more practical learning and early school participation. A strengthened educational standard contributes to the same thing. In addition, prices should be reduced. It is good for people's wallet and an important measure to lower the threshold for children to go to kindergarten and SFO. A government statement gives the Storting the opportunity to have an overall debate on what society we want, both here and now, for individuals, families, communities and businesses, and also for tomorrow, the next year, the next four years, and also the years that follow. Our task in this room is to prioritize. We do these priorities based on our values and our social view. Priorities change the daily lives of people here and now, and the future of Norway. It's a responsibility that rests with all the parties and us who sit in this room. In recent years, we have had different government constellations in Norway. We've had a minority government with a cooperation agreement that secured a majority of cases in Stortinget. We've had a majority government, and we've had an ordinary minority government without any cooperation agreement. The government that has now joined is a minority government. That means that the Storting is going to be important. I want to end my contribution by inviting good and constructive cooperation with all parties who want a new course for Norway – a safer working life, where people will get a job and a wage to live off, a powerful effort to reduce differences and inequalities between people, and a fair climate policy, which cuts emissions and creates jobs. Lots leaving government offices often say that they must be a constructive opposition party. As the parliamentary leader, I can promise that the Labour Party will be a constructive government party, so that together, here in this Chamber, we can find solutions that will make Norway the best use of the opportunities we have, and give ordinary people a better life.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e7883	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e7888	First, I would like to congratulate the representative of Aasrud on his job as parliamentary head of the main government party. From my own experience, I can say that there will never be a boring day at work. It'll never be a day just like you thought. But exciting and busy, I'm sure it'll be. The government received its declaration in Hurdal. Now the child has been brought to the Storting. So far, we have heard the most about how the Workers' Party and the Centre have united their electoral campaign – trust, almost ordinary people in absolutely the whole country, in Norway in which we are so happy. But the substance, solutions and measures for what the government is going to do, how to solve the challenges it faces, are waiting. The Hurdal platform offers few surprises. It has a reverse and brake strategy in the process of conversion, climate and modernisation. So the question for the representative Aasrud is: what are the major challenges Norway is facing, and how is the government going to solve them?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e7897	First, I would like to thank you for the congratulations and the reminder that there may be some busy days. I will do it and hope to continue to have good cooperation with everyone in Stortinget. If you read the Hurdal Declaration, you will see that it contains a clear picture of how we are going to make the changes that are absolutely necessary. First of all, we have to get more people to work. We're totally dependent on that. We have to get more people to work that are outside today, and there are too many people outside. Then we have to have a fairer distribution of the goods, so we don't have to cut in all the well-being goods, which Right has been good for the last years they've been in government. Not least, we need to pursue a climate policy that ensures that we both get to change and create new jobs. It's absolutely necessary for the transition we're about to enter into in terms of climate to be fair, and for no one to fall outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e7904	I noticed that the first three minutes of the representative's posts were about the Right. It might be an expression that there are not so many visions to present from this Hurdal platform. It was better to talk about things you're used to talking about, right, so-called unsocial profile. It is announced a new course, but it was not new enough for SV. I have to say there is surprisingly little new in the platform. It is only in the budget negotiations with SV that we will see what is the new course. So the concrete content of the new government's political project is to be defined by a party that chose not to join the government. There is talk of a trust reform, but there is no trust in the students who want to choose higher education. There is no trust in patients who are struggling with drugs and mental disorders who are not allowed to use free treatment options. Is trust reform really a trust reform for the system and the public, and a distrust of patients, students and people who want to make their own choices?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e7913	No, the trust reform we present is not a distrust of any of those patient groups. When we're going to develop what we offer to different patient groups, to different users, we have to do it in cooperation with the organisations that represent them. But we've seen that we've got a society where you measure a lot, that's a lot of reporting. We hear about professionals who spend time writing reports. It is measured and counted. A good welfare society must be based on other criteria. We have to trust the professionals who are there, who have the shoes and know how things can be done better. I am absolutely sure that with enhanced cooperation with the trade union movement, we will have many new good solutions that will serve the user groups mentioned by the representative of Helleland. It will be good for people, it will be good for society, and not least it will ensure an economy that is right and fair, where we distribute the good we have, in a better way than that we bet on more privatisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e7918	I would also like to congratulate the representative, Mr Aasrud, and hope that she will be able to contribute to clarification, because there is now complete confusion as to the policy of taxation to be followed by the government with regard to petrol and diesel. At a time when interest rates are rising, food prices are sky-high, power prices are record high and we also have sky-high petrol and diesel prices, many in Norway are concerned about the economy. Prime Minister Gahr Støre said in the election campaign that he thought it was all right with petrol and diesel prices of 20 kroner per litre. Barth Eide, who is now Minister for Climate and Environment, said in the Political Quarter that pump prices are going up. Then I also heard Finance Minister Schlagsvold Vedum on the radio today talk about different components – without giving me any answer. So my question is simply whether the Workers' Party supports Barth Eide in saying that the diesel and petrol charges should be raised, or whether this can now be a guarantee that they will be kept down and preferably also reduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e7925	Thank you for the question, and thank you for the congratulations. I understand that a lot of people in society are now worried about increased electricity prices. They pay the same toll charges they have paid for a long time – as the Progress Party was good at giving them. We are going to put forward a charging scheme for petrol and diesel prices, where we are increasing the CO 2 tax up to NOK 2 000, but we are going to find good solutions that make those who depend on using a car drop a huge increase. We'll come back with the details of the state budget, and I'm pretty sure we're going to find good solutions that will make people the most, when they see what we put forward in the supplementary proposition that comes in a few weeks, will be satisfied.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e7935	The current year, the tolls have been reduced by 2 billion. kr, or at least the repayment of tolls. We're excited to see if the new government continues to do that, or if the drivers have to pay even more. As far as the CO 2 tax is concerned, we have registered that we want an increase, which will provide a worse framework for the Norwegian industry. It worries us because it could mean the deflagration of jobs that Norway desperately needs. But I do not feel that I received any answer to the question. What I asked about was whether this and now there can be a guarantee that the taxes on petrol and diesel will not be set up. Or it will mean that Barth Eide, who is the Minister for Climate and Environment, is actually almost set aside before he has started, as he has promised that these fees will go up. So I'm still asking for an explanation of what the Workers' Party here thinks is right.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e7948	As I said in my post, we're going to come back to the details of the supplementary proposition that comes in just a few weeks. I am absolutely sure that both the Ministry of Finance and other departments are working under pressure to find good solutions that make us find a fair way to ensure that we get a better climate, which we are totally dependent on. At the same time, those who are dependent on using a car in their day-to-day functioning will have an adjustment that will make them feel reasonably good. I am sure that the Minister of Finance and others will come back when we get that supplementary proposition to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e7953	Let me first congratulate you on the platform and minority government! That is quite right, as the representative Aasrud says: Six out of ten voters have wanted change – more justice, more environment. We have now been for eight years with galloping increases in both income and – not least – wealth. We've seen that the welfare has been weakened, that the wealthiest pay less to the community, while they're sitting on a larger part of the cake. On behalf of all six out of ten who have wanted a change, a real change, and want to bring down the differences in society, what in the government platform is the direction of a proper redistribution in Norway? Could the representative Aasrud explain that?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e7962	Thank you for the question. The fight against Difference Norway is one of the most important struggles we can take to preserve the model of society we have, and in the platform we have presented, we have said that we should have a fairer tax policy. We're going to increase the wealth tax, we're going to increase the tax on income over NOK 750,000, and we're going to reduce the tax on people with low and average incomes. We're going to make sure that the pay gap in the public sector is reduced. We need a fight against tax havens – it is also important in this context. Not least, we're going to reduce the cost of having kids in kindergarten and SFO, and we're going to make it cheaper for people to commute. So there are a number of measures in the platform that will help us reduce the differences. And we have to work on it, because it's married to a society whose differences continue to increase.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e7967	It will be exciting to see when we get the additional proposition to Stortinget, what the government is doing. We in SV are going to be constructive, but we have our policy that we want to put pressure on. In relation to the big tax question of how to reduce both income and wealth differences, to contribute more to the community, it is to create good welfare reforms. There are many welfare initiatives in the platform. In what way are the tax formulations of the platform in line with the desire for different types of welfare reforms – for young people, for men’s offices, etc.?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e7974	We have to see everything in context. An important part of our platform is that we get more people working. This will give us more money we can distribute. It will enable us to comply with the wording of the platform. We have put forward a platform that is within the framework of a safe economic policy. The working party will never come up with a budget that is not related. The important thing is that we distribute the tax differently and get more tax revenue by increasing the wealth tax for those who have large assets. We have to make sure that more people get into work, and we also have to work to do things in new ways, so that we can free up funds to meet the welfare challenges we have, and the measures on the platform we want to implement.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e7979	I am in the line of congratulations for a new government, a new platform and a new position for the representative. This platform comes into the wake of a pandemic, where I think we've all seen the extent to which we're dependent on other countries in the world, on good and bad, that we're a country that's open, and that has to relate to the rest of the world, not least that there's a lot of people in Norway who live their lives across borders. One thing our parties have in common is the belief that international cooperation is the key to solving the major challenges we face, but also that commitment cooperation is also serving Norway well. However, in the Hurdal platform, there is a wording that I am a bit over, because it says that we need to assess the experience of EEA cooperation. It is harmless enough, but it also says that experience should be gained from neighbouring countries outside the EU. I can't read this in any other way than to explore alternatives to the EEA Agreement. If that agreement is established, why should alternatives to the EEA Agreement be explored? Why is it more important to look at experiences from, for example: Switzerland than from countries like Sweden and Denmark?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e7988	Thank you for your question and thank you for your congratulations. We can only conclude that the EEA Agreement is binding on Norway with a government from the Workers' Party and the Centre's Party. However, it is important that we gain experience from the work that has been done since the previous major investigation – it was well received in 2012 or 2013. It is almost ten years ago, so it is important that we get a review where we look at what areas this has been good and whether there are things we need to strengthen or work more on, but it is also important that we look at what experience the countries outside the EU have had. I think it makes sense that we have a knowledge base that we can build on, but that doesn't mean we're going to risk the EEA agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e7993	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e7998	I will be allowed to begin by congratulating Jonas Gahr Støre both with the election and with the appointment of his government. The Prime Minister has chosen an experienced but also exciting team. I wish the new government good luck and hope that it will help make Norway an even better country to live in. In the Stortinget right will be a constructive opposition party, but we will also challenge the government. I'll come back to it. The government will take over at a time when the arrows are pointing in the right direction. Greenhouse gas emissions are falling. Developments in the transport sector are particularly important. In September, 77 pst. of newly registered passenger cars zero-emission vehicle. There will be fewer unemployed. An increasing number of enterprises now report that labour shortages prevent further growth and value creation. The employment rate is higher than when my government joined, despite the pandemic and record unemployment just a few months ago. More and more are still completing secondary education. Several choose professional subjects, and record girls have applied for male-dominated education programmes. The share of health-related benefits is reduced — if one ignores a short-term increase during the pandemic. The competitiveness of industry towards the rest of the world has improved significantly. It contributes to the great interest in establishing new industries, which we have seen in recent years. According to the Central Statistical Office, Norwegian exports are record high. mainland exports are so far in 2021 44 pst. higher than in the same period in 2013. I notice that the new government will increase mainland exports by 50 pst. by 2030. That is, you add up to a level of ambition that's about the same rate of growth that we've seen in the last eight years. For the first time in many years, there was a lower proportion of children in poor families in 2019 than in the previous year. Reduced immigration is now beginning to appear in statistics. And finally, in a world where differences are increasing, income inequality in Norway is stable. As I said, there are many arrows pointing in the right direction. I hope that the new government will see to it that progress continues. I say hope, because it's not easy to predict. In many areas, the Hurdal Platform and the Government Declaration are characterised by ambitions about goals that were also expressed by the previous government. That's good, and it shows that we're together about a lot. In many areas, however, the platform is a little concrete. Most concretely, the platform is when it comes to reverse and looking backwards. In the Common Era, my government highlighted dangerous climate change and qualifying more for work as the two most important challenges in the coming years. I see no such clear priorities from the new government. For example: climate, the platform is only concrete when it comes to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The right will therefore challenge the government with concrete proposals. There are proposals that will continue to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, providing children and young people with a school that prepares them even better for work and student life and that gives those who are outside the labour market a chance to try out, an opportunity to increase their skills and feel the joy of contributing. It is a proposal that makes it easier to take education at the same time as work and at the same time receive benefits for living and that gives patients more, no less right to choose, and shorter waiting time for treatment — to mention some of the areas. The green shift in business is going on for too much. The jobs to replace the petroleum sector in the future are now under way. We know that they will require high skills, predictable market access and a business that has muscles to invest. If we are to continue to have a high level of well-being in Norway, they must also deliver high value creation and income to the community. If profitable jobs in petroleum are replaced by jobs requiring subsidies and state aid, our welfare ambitions must be greatly reduced. In this area, the platform is rich in words, but poor in solutions. A mantra for my government has been that no one should go out to date in our working life. There is an image of the importance of knowledge and competence for individuals to be able to associate with, participate in the labour market and ensure income from living by themselves and their families — the fundamental well-being of our society. The challenges and the need for change and rapid adaptation to the needs of the labour market will be great, both for primary, secondary and higher education, and in the policy of competence. Here too, there are no concrete answers to what we have been presented by the new government. So we have to wait until we know what the government will actually do in most areas. But I'm fundamentally optimistic, so I'm not going to take the troubles ahead. I remember the debate in 2013. I think a lot of people took grief in advance, and it went a lot, much better – it also shows the results today. I am pleased that the Prime Minister in his speech wanted good cooperation with all the parties on the Stortinget. The right is going to be recognizable as a constructive opposition party. We will make concrete proposals that help to keep the arrows pointing in the right direction for Norway. I want to challenge the government to support these proposals. The right will also challenge the government in terms of international cooperation. A good relationship with the countries closest to us is good preparedness. We've learned that under the pandemic. The EEA Agreement helped to bring infectious disease control equipment into the country and to supply us with vaccines. As long as Norway is outside the EU, we cannot take anything for granted. The EEA Agreement helps, but it does not solve everything. A good relationship with our European friends and allies is an important investment for the day it really does. It is more important for Norway and our preparedness than it is for the countries within the EU. In the end, I want to express a little surprise at the lack of interest of the new government in Norway’s international maritime investment – or the oatmeal, as Jonas Gahr Støre used to say before he became Prime Minister. The maritime effort has grown to become an important foreign policy initiative for Norway. It is important for our business and development, and what happens in other countries is closely related to how we can use our resources in the future. The International High Level Panel on Sustainable Marine Economy, for which Norway has taken the initiative, is an example of how we have worked strategically and actively to keep the sea on the international agenda. Many countries listen to us on these issues because they feel that we have a lot to contribute – from research, good management environments, good skills. In both business, research and management, we have large and important environments – and the sea, we have that in common in the world. It is in our interest that other countries also manage their marine resources in a responsible and sustainable way. Once the sea as an international bet has disappeared, I hope it was a forgetfulness and that it was not a signal. During this debate, I would like to ask for a clear and clear confirmation of this very thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8023	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8028	Let me first say that I very much appreciate the fact that the representative Solberg is back in Stortinget – welcome back, we appreciate that. So I can admit that a lot is good in Norway, a lot is going well, but when the representative Solberg saw until those degrees emphasize that all the arrows point in the right direction, I certainly believe that there is a subjective perception that needs some comments. Firstly, the pandemic is not over. The effects will continue to affect large parts of Norwegian business. Unemployment is still high, long-term unemployment is increasing. In the case of the trade balance: if oil and gas are left out, the deficit is thus far in the year 221 billion. kr, and it has not been sufficiently arranged for the Norwegian industry to participate in the green shift. Greenhouse gas emissions have virtually not moved. My question is: does the representative Solberg agree that these huge challenges are demanding, that they are not new, and that the government she herself led did too little to address these challenges?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8040	I agree that we still have too much time off, but the big challenge we have now is the mismatch between the skills that people have and the jobs that are. We have record high job creation and record high demand for labour. That is why I missed it as a clearer field of action in the government statement. For us, there was one of the two main initiatives we put forward in the throne: getting more people to work. So I would like to remind you of the numbers I gave in my post regarding the export income from mainland Norway, which has increased by 44 pst. if we look at the period from January to September this year measured against January to September in 2013. That means that we've made a big deal for it already, and the pace that the government advertised with a great deal of bravour, is the same pace we've had through a pandemic, through an oil price drop and through a difficult situation. I might have thought you'd increase your pace a little bit over the next ten years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8047	With regard to the mismatch in the skills we currently have in the business world, the representative Solberg – who has not adapted his skills to the needs of the business community – must take a significant responsibility for it after eight years. That's the first one. The second is that we can't just measure the trade balance in growth from 2013 until today. We have to assume what are the realities. When the reality is a deficit of 221 billion. kr per September, that means that we are in a serious situation. As long as we know that oil and gas revenues are going to be reduced, we have to bring up the options, and then the efforts over the last eight years have been far too small in relation to the challenges of reality. Only one example of this is the recent discussions on high electricity prices, variability, etc. Then I register that the Right now is very concerned about it, but you can ask questions about what the previous government has done to prepare Norwegian power customers for the situation we are now experiencing. Did it come unprepared to represent Solberg?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8054	I have pointed out that the export ambitions are no greater than what we have delivered in the last eight years – the ambitions of the new government in relation to what we have delivered. I also want to point out that we have done extremely much in terms of competence policy. We've made sure that people who get unemployed can now take education while they get a day's pay. We have made sure to prepare the university and higher education sectors for targeted measures to enable them to cooperate more closely with business. We have delivered a big message about how we are going to create continuing training offers, and how we are going to build on it. We have a number of industry programmes, and we're going to follow this up. In the case of the issue related to electricity, it is such that we have answered yes to approx. 600 concessions during this period on small power, wind power and larger hydropower plants, where most of them are hydropower. It's been invested 60 billion. kr in the power grid during this period. We've prepared to build more power, and we've built better networks to make this better in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8063	I want to start by thanking the representative of Solberg for his efforts as Prime Minister in the last eight years. It's worth staying a little bit with the government that's now gone off, which likes to call itself a business-friendly government. It was a government that swore to a neutral or passive industrial policy, where it was strongly warned against picking winners. The new government is in favour of an active enterprise policy. We then point out that the fishing industry is an industry with opportunities. Mineral nutrients must have a special policy for them. Travel is going to have a stake, and the maritime industry is going to work with the authorities to develop further. We're going to bet on sea wind, and we're going to take up the food. Then my question is: does the representative Solberg not see the value of an active industrial policy in which the state works with private people to develop concrete industries?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8070	Thank you for a nice review. I just want to say that in all the areas referred to here, this government has led an active policy. We have delivered on concessions for mineral extraction. We have delivered on our own travel life message. We've worked with a lot of travel through the pandemic. We have pursued an active industrial policy by focusing on good roads and infrastructure in Norway, by focusing on training people with skills that business needs, and by working closely with the instrument for innovation and innovation with new instruments, such as: Like catapults, to make sure we get it. In addition, we have built on research and development, and we have doubled the focus on nutrient research targeting many different areas to ensure that we have more legs to stand on in the future. What we have done is an active industrial policy. What this government announces is an activistic enterprise policy — an industrial policy in which one goes into and examines and governs in state-owned companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8077	I hope Right will support the active industrial policy of the government, and I feel that there is an industrial policy that also the industry itself is interested in. This government is based on important principles such as industrial freedom, private ownership and an active industrial policy. The previous government ended up becoming the first government to impose a ban on food in Norway. As a morning gift or a test, a ban was introduced on legal nutrition in Norway — fur nutrition. Combined with the fact that the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left failed to compensate the industry in four years, there has been a standing ban on nutrition. Then my question to Solberg's representative is: is she proud to have led the first government that imposed a ban on food in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8082	I believe it is important that we have taken important animal protection considerations in the fur animal industry. There's two ways to do it. You can set very strict rules – that's what our neighboring country has done, and that has meant that many have not been able to operate without compensation. We in the previous government chose a different line, where we agreed that we should not set very strict rules and make sure that people went out of business without being compensated, but where, on the contrary, we made sure that it was replaced. Then we've had a lot of discussions with Stortinget, that's absolutely right, about the level of compensation. My question back is: Is it so that the Center Party has been able to get through to cancel this now? Does this mean that it is free to feed fur animals, or is it that they intend to live with the policy of the previous government?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8089	The President will stress that it is a little reluctant to ask questions when it is not possible to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8094	Let me first say thank you for the effort for eight years – and welcome back to Stortinget. The most important argument against the wealth tax is that it discriminates between Norwegian and foreign owners, and it makes it more attractive to be a foreign owner in Norway. I remember a Right who was very concerned about securing Norwegian companies the best framework conditions, and not least as good framework conditions as foreign competitors, but now Right goes in to more than triple the level of charges in Norwegian jobs by 2030. In the years ahead, Norwegian companies will pay a CO 2 tax of DKK 2 000 per tonne, while the estimated quota price in Europe, according to the Ministry of Finance, is approx. NOK 1000. The Progress Party is in favour of the polluter-pays principle, but a proposal to triple the CO 2 tax will soon be a recipe for job deflagration and reduced value creation in Norway. Then my question is to the representative of Solberg: why does the Right believe that Norwegian companies should have a double level of fees as our closest competitors in Europe?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8109	I believe it is absolutely essential that we take the climate challenges seriously, and that Norway should contribute to reducing climate emissions. We're going to do that as individuals in our consumption, and we're going to do that as businesses. I think it gives a competitive advantage to be early ahead with new technology, and that if they have green solutions in the future, it will be possible to make more profit in the market for businesses. Then we're going to create new markets for new types of energy. It's not possible to get hydrogen to penetrate the market if we don't have a higher price of fossil fuel. It is not possible to get to all the new technologies without actually costing more to pollute. Therefore, we are concerned that pollution should be more expensive, but it should be cheaper to engage in other activities. That is why we need good financial conditions. We need to facilitate taxation in other areas to ensure that conditions of competition do not deteriorate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8114	The last Solberg government did before it resigned, was put forward a government budget that shows that the emissions gap to achieve the 2030 climate target is even greater than we thought, and even greater than the climate plan of the Solberg government provided. The measures proposed in this State budget and in the climate plan will not close the gap. The climate action of the previous government has not been good enough. This means that the problem is even bigger now. More emissions need to be cut faster. Internationally, too, there is impatience. Today, the UN is out saying that the world's planned fossil energy production is twice the level to reach the 1.5 degree target. Neither will the 2-degree target be achievable. The IEA has pointed out the same and the EU will ban exploration for oil and gas in Arctic areas. In Norway, on the other hand, we subsidise oil production. So how can the representative Solberg be satisfied with the efforts of the Solberg government on climate?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8120	Emissions have fallen in the last five years. The rate of emission reduction is increased by the measures implemented. We presented a plan in January, which has been dealt with in the Stortingen, which we believe also shows the direction forward. So it's true that because of the error of calculation that has been made on marine oil, such as on one source, the calculations back to 2012 have been incorrect in terms of climate emissions in Norway. The trend and decline have nevertheless been there, but emission miscalculations from 2012 are behind these changes. I fully agree that it is therefore important that we have good and strong instruments. That is why I really intend to congratulate Mr Kaski, who is the main partner of the government in budgetary terms, because this is a government which, in its government statement, primarily lowers the ambitions of the most important instrument, namely to praise CO 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8130	Several times before the elections, when Red has taken the initiative, then Prime Minister Erna Solberg has refused to provide additional housing support because of high electricity prices. That prices are going to increase in South Norway, among others. due to closer links with the European electricity market, the NVE has notified the Commission. It was clear when the Right still ruled. Nevertheless, it is only when the right-wing government resigns that they present immediate measures. Why hasn't the Right, like the so-called governing party they're about to be, taken responsibility earlier to prevent people with normal or low income from getting a power shock?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8135	We've taken a lot of initiatives. As mentioned earlier, we have done a lot in terms of power development and power development permits under this government, mainly related to hydropower. In addition, we've developed networks to make it better for the distribution. The third thing we've done -- I think it's actually three times -- is that we've increased housing during my government period, just to prevent that once you've had violent increases in energy prices, the families that can afford the worst will have to face challenges. So it's not like we haven't done it before. We've done it three times — given increases in housing support during this period. Then we've actually put down a sample to look at the housing support system, which also has a mandate to look at how we can put a mechanism into the housing support system related to just energy prices, to see if we can get a better way of doing this in the future. It's also that it would be unnatural for us to put forward a proposition of changes right now, the last weeks before we split up, since a new government was going to accede.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8144	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8149	There's something nice and beautiful about elections and power shifts in Norway. Swallow if we don't have carefully written rules for everything at such a transition, it follows a certain template, and it's done with great respect for each other. A former prime minister who wants the next happiness, a foreign minister who gives the foreign minister in question a good hug, a child and family minister who says it was ‘frustrating’ that you came here, to the incoming state council: it's really pretty good to look at. In Norwegian policy, we do not have a vote in Stortinget on who will become Prime Minister. It is the party or parties that win a election, which is also called the King and takes over the government responsibility. Nor do we have the opportunity to replace the Stortinget along the way by printing new choices, as many other countries can do. We have what the voters have chosen. It is the Stortinget that has both power and responsibility throughout the electoral term. In the Norwegian context, good functioning has been demonstrated. One might say that the fact that it is has been responsible for both government and opposition through various forms of minority and majority government. The way power transfer takes place in Norway also says a little about the high level of trust in our society. It's a good thing to take care of. We trust each other. Trust is shown again in many areas of society: the willingness to pay their taxes, the desire to participate in hard work and to volunteer, the high degree of vaccination we've had after the corona, and the way we as society have met the entire pandemic over the last year. In the Hurdal platform, trust lies as a sub-wire throughout the platform. How are we going to maintain and strengthen the high trust between people in Norwegian society? The government's answer is to combat abstinence and increasing inequality and to overcome social and geographical differences. Small differences and a living government, both nationally and locally, are characteristic of Norway. It has to be taken care of, and it has to be developed. Listening to people, giving people more power over their own lives and their local communities, is an important way to go. It is also an important principle that no matter where you live in Norway, the community should set up for you. Indeed, the experience is that if the community prepares for them, people represent the community. The centre party looks at the Hurdal platform as a good tool to manage. It's showing a new direction. As the Prime Minister said on Monday, we will face challenges such as climate crisis, digitisation, welfare tasks and centralisation with new measures and with new strength. The government platform is a good platform for seeing and developing all of Norway. One crucial point of the Centre Party is that the government should introduce a rule on regional policy impact assessments of all reforms and that regional policy considerations should be a horizontal one in public administration. This means that different areas need to be assessed from a district perspective, whether in terms of housing policy, banking and financial policy, climate policy or industrial policy. Good infrastructure provides a basis for settlement throughout the country. Therefore, the government will halve the prices of ferries and contribute to free ferry services for islands without mainland connections. Ensuring lower prices and multiple take-offs on the short-distance network is also essential. Here the government's measure is a halving of the prices. This type of action is immeasurably important for all those who live and work along the coast, in the west, in central Norway and in northern Norway. It's helping to dampen distance suppressors. It makes the short-range network of the collective service it is actually in Norwegian districts, and it makes everyday life easier for everyone who is dependent on a ferry to work. Digitalisation offers enormous opportunities to create new jobs and better public services, but we do not get to take advantage of all the important aspects of digitisation if the digital infrastructure is not in place for everyone. Then digitisation could create new differences. We're at risk for a digital class distinction. It is therefore very important that the government has stated that broadband should be made a right for all, in line with electricity, and that it will ensure the development of high-speed broadband for all residents by 2025. It requires a different bet than today. We have to recognize that those who live out of the way are not the ones who will first get 5G - or 6G or 7G. Therefore, a fissile layer is particularly important for the last 10 pst. by the population to ensure high-speed broadband. District policy must be strengthened and renewed. A work on building growth agreements shall be carried out in selected locations. This type of agreement shall be a long-term partnership between the country and the selected municipalities, particularly in need of support for industrial development. Local authorities must point to the measures in their area where there is a need for action. It may relate to commercial premises, to the upgrading of existing industry or to tourism activities, to infrastructure or to capital for further development. Indeed, many who wish to invest in these areas experience that they do not have access to private capital through the banks, and they have problems in upgrading and developing existing activities. With such an instrument, we will just be able to reach the municipalities that have the biggest challenges. A long-term partnership between these municipalities and the state can help create new activities and new jobs. The party welcomes the fact that a more active industrial policy is an important part of the government's work. The State can and should contribute more actively with both infrastructure and capital and use its purchasing power to promote Norwegian business. Our natural resources are a competitive advantage, and it must be used well. The specialisation of industry based on natural resources such as power, fish, aquaculture and forests is therefore positive. Reasonable renewable energy must also remain a competitive advantage. Therefore, new inter-territorial connections shall not be authorised during this period. Agriculture has also had a prominent role in the government platform. The income gap between agriculture and other social groups shall be narrowed, structural measures shall be amended, a plan of better welfare schemes shall be presented for those employed in agriculture and small and medium-sized dairy farms shall be provided with investment funds to meet unleaded requirements. The climate change in agriculture, with which the previous government has not really done anything, must be achieved through a new body, Bionova, such as the Enova of agriculture. A Bionova may allow for the conversion necessary to reduce climate emissions from an industry with many thousands of marine nutritionists. Such a conversion cannot happen schematically. One has to go through the business of each individual use and look at the measures in question. This is a new course, a direction where the districts are taken seriously, a direction in which the security of peoples throughout the country is important. Police, ambulances and fire services shall be more present and come faster when something happens. In this context, it is important that the government set up 20 new police stations and strengthen the staffing of already existing relief agencies and that all emergency situations should have binding response times. I would also like to point out a new course in education policy, where unreasonable demands are cancelled, and where more emphasis is placed on practical subjects and vocational training. All secondary school students shall be given the opportunity to choose a vocational course, and a secondary school reform shall be carried out which prepares the pupils for the vocational course as much as the preparatory course. I see that the right of eight years in government did not present that kind of reform, but that they are now, in opposition, promoting a Document 8 proposal to do so. They don't have to – it's on the platform, and the government has to implement it. The centre party also looks forward to an effective climate policy that reduces emissions and is practical and ground-based. Policies in this area must not contribute to creating new social or geographical divisions. It will, in the long run, be devastating to the possibility of a broad popular uproar on one of the greatest challenges of our time. Climate action must therefore be designed in such a way that the industries with the greatest capacity for conversion and those groups in society with the strongest back to bear it also take the heaviest risks. The centre party looks forward to the realisation of the ‘work programme’ that a government platform is always. We're part of a minority government, and we know that the Storting gets a very important role in the period ahead of us. We look forward to good cooperation in Stortinget to contribute to a new direction and to getting good solutions to the issues dealt with in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8183	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8188	After all, I can congratulate the representative Arnstad on being at his post, in an even more demanding role when it comes to solving the government's policy. But congratulations, at least, on the results of the elections and on the power of government! Then it is that when you write a government statement, the devil sometimes lies in the details. During the last period, the Centre Party – both the representative Arnstad and the leader of the Centre Party, now the Minister of Finance Slagsvold Vedum – repeatedly voiced criticism of energy policy, and not least of ACER. In 2019, Slagsvold Vedum also stated in the class struggle: ‘We give control over important parts of our energy policy to Acer and the EU.’ On the other hand, the Government Platform states that it is to continue and strengthen ‘in a way that is in line with Norway’s interests’, and also ‘to ensure that decisions on the development of force and the composition of the Norwegian power mix remain Norwegian national decisions’. So my question to the representative Arnstad is, did we really have control all the time?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8199	There has been a trend in recent years that has been a little bit worrying, both in terms of the issue of new cables, not least NorthConnect, of which the previous government was very concerned, and also in terms of the relationship with ACER. This government is going to base its work on the EEA Agreement, but we are going to use the space for action in that agreement in a much more active way than the previous government did, and try to ensure the best interests of Norway. It is not least important that one can take care of Norwegian interests and the need for national control relating to all energy and energy decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8204	I think almost have to repeat my question. I am aware that the EEA Agreement is based on – it is otherwise Right very, very happy. But it's like you said in the last period that you gave up control in these areas, and you had already done it because you took part, for example. in Acer. When, in a declaration signed by the Central Party, it is clear that ‘the Norwegian national decisions remain’, my question is again to Arnstad: does it mean, after eight years of civil government, that Norway has control of these resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8209	This means that Norway has control of those decisions. At the same time, I believe we should recognise that joining ACER was a whole new form of joining an EU supervisory board which, in line with the Financial Supervisory Authority, has received powers that have not been provided for by the directives that Norway has previously joined. But what we can do, and as we have to do in government, and as the previous government wasn't so very concerned about, is to ensure that one, when one is a member of such supervision, takes care of Norwegian interests, and manages to ensure that we have control of Norwegian energy policy and Norwegian energy decisions sail whether we are a member of such supervision. There is a risk and a danger that it may be challenged, and this government must be very aware of that. It is part of what is involved in exploiting the EEA Agreement space for action, as this government is to do. We think that ACER has so far made some decisions that are a little ominous, which the new government must also be aware of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8214	Congratulations on your election and on your job! There is some confusion about this, as I had in the past, with diesel and petrol taxes. The centre party has been very clear and promised that this will not increase. In March, Arnstad’s representative presented the Workers’ Party with a petrol prize. She said that it was not appropriate to sit in a government that increases the price of petrol. On the other hand, in the political quarter of this week, we could hear the Minister for Climate and Environment say that fuel taxes should be raised. Today, we heard Minister of Finance Schlagsvold Vedum talking about components up and down. I don't think anyone got any wiser about it, and I want to add that it seemed as if they had found themselves well at home in the Ministry of Finance. But in the time we're in now, where a lot of expenditure is increasing and people are worried about the economy: can the Central Party and the representative Arnstad guarantee that the fees will not increase, so that the taxes on petrol and diesel will rise?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8222	The centre party is concerned about increases in fees that affect people the most – we are. There have been many of them in the last eight years, and the Progress Party has been on a lot of them. That's not good, because it's not socially reasonable to give tax relief to those who have the most, and then increase the taxes for people most to cover the tax burden. That's not good, so we've been busy with that question. That is why I am pleased that the government platform says that the type of taxes that affect people widely should be reduced, both electricity and fuel taxes. I think that's a good starting point. With regard to the design of the CO 2 tax, the Centre Party has pointed out that when you have a gradual increase, you need to have a differentiated approach, so that you take into account both some industries and some groups of the population that may come out unluckily.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8232	In the case of the CO 2 tax, we have registered that the Centre Party has incurred a total loss and joined the Workers' Party's premises. But I still don't hear that you give any guarantee, and I think there are a lot of drivers out there who are now worried about the already high prices, and whether you can expect that there will be further increase. And then we've also seen that the Center Party has been very forward now in terms of power prices. I appreciate that very much, that's good, because there's a lot of people now who care about paying these bills. I note that today there are signs that indicate that you want to do something about the housing support. That's good, but not so many of these common people are receiving housing support, and so it would be a big bill to pay for a lot of families in Norway if you don't do anything with the fees, and not least with the VAT, which is 25 pst. So once again, there's a guarantee for petrol and diesel, and what do you want to do with the taxes on electricity?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8242	I just get to repeat what is on the government platform, that charges that affect people widely, the government wants to reduce, and we mention electricity and fuel taxes as an example. With regard to the energy situation now and housing support, it is nice that the representative thinks that the Minister of Finance's statement on housing support is good and sensible. It also seems to be the Center Party. Energy costs in the future are going to be both short-term and long-term measures, and unfortunately there is some to clean up after this government, which used the electricity tax in a way that was totally unsustainable, and increased it year after year from 2013 onwards as long as the Progress Party put in government. It was very unfortunate and also created challenges for people. But I don't think there are quite simple, schematic answers to the energy challenges. I think there are both short-term and long-term answers, and I think that one of the important starting points we have on the long-term is that we are not going to approve any new interrelationships over the next four-year period.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8249	I would like to congratulate Mr Arnstad on both his election and his duties. The representative Arnstad spoke warmly about listening to people. We have also heard a centre party that has spoken in the election campaign about the need to move politics closer to people, that we need to ensure the security of people in the communities. Therefore, the disappointment was great for many when the Hurdal platform came without a new course being announced for Ullevål Hospital – on the contrary, the platform continued on the right-hand government's decision to lay the hospital down. It is against the will of local democracy. This is happening against the people's movement and also against the voices and interests of us who live around Oslo. The centre party even said in the election campaign that it was impossible to sit in a government that did something like that. I want to ask, what has changed in people's needs since that time?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8258	The center party admits that when you negotiate with other parties, there is a little bit of gi and take. You have to make compromises, and there are some battles you win, and there are some battles you also lose. That's the way it is in negotiations. And it's been an important starting point for us that we have to go into it and be completely open that it is. Perhaps we would have been stronger around Ullevål Hospital if the SV had not left the negotiating room? Maybe we would have done that. But SV chose to go. We sat again, we negotiated, and we got a lot of good results. I'm very happy that we saved the maternity ward in Kristiansund. I am very pleased that we are now going to have an investigation into the Inland Hospital, which I think makes sense. But it was, and it's like, that something is lost and something is gained in a debate, and some compromises are included – and that's what the Centre Party stands for.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8265	I would also like to begin by congratulating you. The Hurdal platform states that the government will have the county municipalities decide the model for admission to secondary school in their own county. This is gratifying news for the county councils who felt that the decision of the right-wing government to be admitted to high school was contrary to the wishes of the majority in the county to organise admission to high school. But the signals from, among others, Our common home country, Tøndelag, is that it's urgent to reverse the former government's decision on character-based admission to high school. My question to the representative Arnstad is therefore: How will the Central Party work in government to ensure that county municipalities can again decide the model for admission to high school?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8272	I must also be allowed to congratulate the representative of Bae Nyholt on his I thought that was very nice. So I think I agree with the representative on this with the input models of the states. It makes no sense for the State to control which input models the states should have. The counties have chosen slightly different input models. They have worked wisely, and they also choose the model according to the situation in the different states. In Trøndelag, one has chosen a model where one had so far free school choices, but where one got extra credit to apply for secondary schools. That's what I think was a good model, and it wants Dream Teams to keep going. I hope it is possible to facilitate that they can continue to do so continuously and do not get any problems in view of the recording that will be in the summer and autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8279	I would also like to congratulate Marit Arnstad on an important role further. Both Marit Arnstad and the colleague of the Labour Party, Rigmor Aasrud, talk a lot about giving people more power in their own lives, trusting the professionals who are there, the ones who have shoes on. But there's one area where it obviously doesn't apply, and that's business policy. I can tell that many company owners, even small company owners, also wear shoes that they want to wear. The business chapter of the government platform is largely about one thing: the state. The state shall govern more, own more, buy up and enter private business, while the government announces that the tax on private Norwegian ownership will be increased and the framework for private ownership will be weakened. The center party was once a center party that believed that there was a lack of small businesses that developed Norway. Why does the Central Party agree with the Labour Party's old dream that the State should play the main role in industrial policy also on the ownership side, while at the same time pushing private ownership aside from higher taxes on Norwegian ownership?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8290	There will be many congratulations today, but I must also be allowed to congratulate the representative Bjørlo on his work. I think the chapter on industrial policy in the platform is extremely good. I think it's very good. We've been through a period where we've really had a little passive industrial policy. The centre party wants an active industrial policy, and we can bring this platform, where the large community contributes more to infrastructure, with long-term partnerships and with access to capital. There are many, especially in the districts, who have major challenges in accessing capital and in getting rid of ideas in the local business community. I think the platform provides a very good basis for that. So the platform also says that in some strategic areas it may be right for the state to take a role in ownership. It also agrees with the Centre Party, and we should be careful in what areas it should be. But I also feel that the platform provides a good basis for this, and that the platform will provide a good basis for all small and medium-sized business owners and businesses that want to continue investing in this country, not least in districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8299	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8304	I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the new government and wish you every success in the work ahead. The party of progress is going to vote for what we are for, and for what we are against. There are issues in the platform in which the Progress Party definitely supports the intention of: reducing the bureaucracy of business, strengthening the net pay system, ensuring Norwegian seafarers on Norwegian ships, and who have weakened in their budget proposals, changing predatory policies, strengthening the determination system and changing the system of medical approval, to mention something. Then we'll see what's in the details, when that time comes. The main task of the Advance Party for the next four years is to stop the waste and build Norway. It is wrong that Norway spends tens of billions of dollars on assistance, symbolic climate action, and immigration, to mention something, while we cannot afford to give families with sick children decent help to cope with everyday life without tiring out completely. The fact that we cannot afford to guarantee our citizens access to the best and latest medicines and treatments is a failure statement. It is a shame that people die and suffer in Norway because Norway does not use the best and latest medicines and treatments. It is absurd that Norway has used a lot of resources to bring an IS woman to Norway, while fatal patients with cystic fibrosis cannot cover the use of the life-saving medicine Kaphtrio. In a report on TV on Sunday 2, Christian Lawley described cystic fibrosis as drowning – drowning – in his own slime. He's in danger of dying during the winter if he doesn't get the medicine he needs. He's considering becoming a health refugee and moving to Denmark, who approved this medicine over a year ago. The fact that Norway is a slowing down in the use of new drugs and treatment methods affects very common people. Those with a lot of resources can buy help in the private health care system. That is why we expect this to be taken into account, and the Progress Party will support it. The Progress Party today proposes that Norway reject the request to bring IS terrorists to Norway. We should not lift one finger to help people who have supported the IS caliphate, a group that cold blood has killed, maimed, raped and disgraced innocent men, women and children. We want to help the children, but we're setting foot down so that the IS terrorists can push the children in front of them to be picked up in Norway, funded by Norwegian taxpayers. If Stortinget votes down on our proposal, we are afraid that there is a signal that the government of Gahr Støre will follow up where Solberg left off, bringing terrorists to Norway. Norway has spent tens of millions coming to the Security Council. It is now time to use this place to help establish an international criminal court, so that the IS terrorists can be judged and zoned in the area where the crimes have been committed. The Progress Party will ensure that our pensioners get a decent old age, that the minimum pension is raised above the poverty line, and that the pension scheme as married and cohabiting experiences through the curtailment ceases. Elders who need care and help must get it. We hope that the new government will continue the project with state-funded care, and that they scrape Right proposal in the budget to remove the project and the money from 1 January 2022. It will affect the elderly and employees in these municipalities if this money disappears. It's fine with a home reform, which the government is talking about, but we need more sick homes for our most fragile elderly. Then the Progress Party wants all good forces to escape and contribute to giving our parents and grandparents a decent offer when they become nurturing. Climate policy is mostly about symbols, and it is spoken of as if Norway should save the world – Norway with its 5 million inhabitants, and that accounts for about 20 % of the population. 1 per million emissions. Money is spent on CO 2 capture and storage. Expensive hydropower is sent to the oil platforms without world emissions falling. The fishermen in Sørlanden travel to Denmark to fill the tank because the fees in Norway are much higher. It embellishes emissions statistics in Norway, but there is an increase in emissions in the world, as boats run for hours to fill diesel. The new government is going to pour out even more. Only the word «climate» is inside the picture, the billions run out of the state box. Ordinary people in Norway now experience that diesel and petrol prices are sky-high. In some places, pump prices are up to 20 kroner per litre. Food prices have increased sharply, and electricity prices continue to reach new records. On top of that is the interest rate on the way up. It's the turn of ordinary people to pay more and more. The progress party today invites Stortinget to join in and do something about this. That is why we propose that the Right's proposal to increase petrol and diesel taxes, which they have promoted in their proposal for a State budget, be scrapped, and that the Stortinget decide to reduce the petrol and diesel taxes by 3 kroner per litre already today. We are afraid that a Workers' Party-Center Party government has other plans, in any case, Minister for Climate and Environment Barth Eide has just said that the fees are to be raised. We encourage the Workers' Party and the Center Party rather to support our proposal, which will give ordinary people cheaper diesel and petrol. The Progress Party proposes that we remove VAT and electricity charges, initially out of the year, so that people can afford to pay their electricity bill and not sit and freeze. The new oil and energy minister has said that something will be done, and we have seen today that housing aid will be increased. But I think that a decision in Stortinget today to remove the tax and the VAT would be very well received among ordinary people who are anxious about whether they can afford to pay their electricity bill. And the money flows into the state treasury from the oil and gas sector. Never before have we made more money than now, and of course we can afford to let some of this common people benefit, if it's political will. The Progress Party believes that we can use a little more oil money to build the country in the future, but the most important thing is to spend the money that is already in the budget, differently. We have to stop wasting and start prioritizing even more to building our country together, by road and rail, and with good framework conditions for business, which creates and secures jobs. It's a starting point for settlement. You depend on having a job to go to. That's why it's amazing to hear socialists rake down on those who create values, while calling for more private capital to be invested in jobs. Then you're also going to have more state investment in everything between heaven and earth, like the forest industry and state hydrogen companies. State ownership is to be strengthened – as if the state of Norway is not already large enough. The Workers' Party-Center Party government believes that the State and the public are salutative in most areas. The Progress Party believes that it is good with individual freedom, competition, diversity of offers, freedom of choice and that it should be allowed to succeed, to make money, without being rallied. If it doesn't pay to create values and jobs with all the work you have to do, everyone wants to be employed, not corporate owners. Not everyone can be employed in the public sector, someone actually has to pay the bill for the public sector. There is no doubt about which party governs in government. It's the Workers' Party that rules. The fact that the oil fund is going to save the climate, they've also got the Central Party involved. The progress party is always going to fight for our pensions, the savings of the Norwegian people, to be placed where they give the most returns. The centre party has failed the inhabitants of Andøya, Ullevål hospitals, and we are afraid that they will fail the cars. But we hope that this will be rejected today. It is a pity that ordinary people on the top of increased interest rates, food prices and electricity prices and all the high fuel prices are going to get an even greater burden. In that case, it's the state's turn to become even richer, not common people. With this, I address the loose proposals of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8346	The representative Sylvi Listhaug has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8353	In Norway, we are to be proud that we have the world's leading areas of expertise in oil and gas. But the world is changing, and if we are to be a leading energy nation, we cannot choose the Nutrient Neutrality of the Advance Party, zero climate considerations and cut in wealth tax in response to everything, while other countries are developing new green industries and getting the lead in international competition. In this way, the representative Listhaug symbolizes himself as the director of today's hermetic boxes, unless surprising for a party that would give up oil revenue to foreign owners. Or we can choose the social democratic path: active industrial policy, demand for cuts, build future energy sources on the shoulders of today's oil and gas industry, but still in the hands of the community to secure the welfare state. My question is: does not the Progress Party understand that with their policies the consequences will be to liquidate the industrial environments in Norway, not develop?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8360	Definitely not – the propulsion party will develop, not liquidate the oil and gas industry. We are ready to support the new government in getting it done. But we've seen that the new government is going to lean on SV, and we're worried about what comes out of that cooperation, also for the oil and gas sectors. The Progress Party has faith in private business – that they are the very best people to develop new solutions and develop new technologies, that entrepreneurs in Norway will succeed, and that we cannot live on subsidies that this government is going to run away with on an even larger scale just because it is about climate. Now a state hydrogen company is also to be set up, while very many private environments are trying to develop this industry, i.e. in competition with private operators. The working party has tried this before when they opened a door factory in Årdal. It didn't go very well. Therefore, the Progress Party believes that the most important thing is for the State to establish framework conditions, and then the private sector must be the creators of these technologies.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8365	The working party wants to develop and not to liquidate. We want to be the industry's best friend, because the industry is absolutely crucial to the success of the entire business life in Norway. The Norwegian oil and gas industry and the skilled worker understand that the industrial policy of the future is not about roaring, but about showing political power. Norway needs to have competitive advantages in order to secure jobs, to build alternative energy sources such as sea wind and hydrogen, to build the technology needed by the world to cut emissions, to strengthen the export industry, to have the world's leading environments of competence, and to own the natural resources to finance the welfare state. The Progress Party believes that the market should control itself. But what industry demands is a more active industrial policy, state ownership and capital, to build the industry further. That's what the Progress Party says no. Why doesn't the Progress Party listen to the industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8376	Of course, many in private businesses, the NHO and others would like to have a suction tube into the treasury. We get it. We do not disagree that the state should contribute – absolutely – but we must look at the level of it. The working party will now turn even more billions on this CO 2 capture and storage project. Already the state's 16-billion-billion-dollar state. And now you have to go in even more. Many may remember the first CO 2 capture project the Workers' Party started in Mongstad. It crashed the country and threw away billions of dollars of taxpayers' money, which is subliminal. That is why our approach is that we should have a good framework for business. Yes, we're also going to make some money and some assistance, but we want to leave the value creation to private businesses and not set up competitors in public, like you, for example. proposes here in the case of hydrogen saturation. That's the wrong way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8389	I have a little trouble understanding what is the argument of the Advance Party in the matter of nutrition. Never before has the use of oil money been higher than under the previous governments of which the Progress Party was part or support. The trade balance has also deteriorated sharply since 2013. This government has a target of increasing Norwegian exports – excluding oil and gas – by at least 50 pst. by 2030. Policies shall contribute to the growth of sustainable industries. We need to use our oil wealth in combination with the expertise given by the oil and gas industry to reinvest in the mainland industry. The oil and gas industries shall be developed, not phased out. Partnerships with compensation schemes and/or business tax reductions shall be established. Norwegian enterprises must have good, predictable and stable framework conditions to facilitate private investment. Does the representative, Mr Listhaug, think that this is a gray and boring policy that the Progress Party cannot associate with?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8398	The Progress Party does not support the fact that we are going to raise even more money from the private sector in the form of increased taxes and taxes. The Senterpartiet has now completely lost the fight against the CO 2 tax. You're going to triple it in the future. We get sky-high, extraordinary fees in Norway compared to our competitors in the rest of Europe. We're against that. We are also opposed to the waste we see, by spending a lot of money on industrial policy – simply because we believe that private business is better able to do it than state-owned companies that are supposed to be competitors of those who are trying to create values. When I talk to people on Sunnmare who run these businesses, they're concerned that more of the values should be left in the districts instead of being sent down to Oslo. That is what you do when you increase taxes and taxes – you take more money into Oslo, bottle up businesses in the districts for money, and thus reduce the possibility of developing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8410	The President reminds the representative that the speech must be made through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8415	There's little answer to what you really want to do to change this. But to preserve a society with popular support for climate policy, we must stop moralizing. We need to set up environmental and climate taxes in a socially equitable way and differentiate geographically if possible. The State shall commit itself to the provision of the necessary infrastructure, enter into partnerships that combine cost-cutting and industrial development, contribute capital and use its purchasing power. We're going to have more people working, create activity across the country, increase exports and cut greenhouse gas emissions by 55 pst. These four objectives are to be achieved jointly through an active and forward-looking industrial policy. So we need the income from the mainland industry, we need jobs, and we need more climate-friendly production of goods and services, to replace uncritical imports. Is the representative still of the opinion that this is gray and boring?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8422	The Progress Party is critical of the use of money that we see, for example. in the climate area, because we believe that Norway is supposed to save the world, and only the word ‘climate’ comes up, money is to be spent. The most important thing for technology development is to provide good framework conditions for our companies. Therefore, we believe that the most important thing we can do is to have a competitive level of taxes and taxes. Unfortunately, the signals from the new government are that you want to increase that level for Norwegian businesses. We believe that is the wrong way to go. There may be a lot of businesses in the districts, where having a job to go to is the whole starting point for being able to live there. The party of progress does not have as much faith in the state as the new government has. We have more faith in individuals, businesses, the private business and the creative power that exists outside the state. That's what's important to stimulate in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8432	On 16 May 2011, the representative, Mr Listhaug, said to the VG: ‘Human CO 2 emissions have not been proven to lead to climate change. It is primarily an excuse to introduce more taxes and taxes.» When she was an oil and energy minister, I asked her if she was wrong in 2011. She would not answer that, but she replied, ‘I record that the representative refers to a time when the country had a different government.’ She further replied: «The government of the day will pursue an ambitious climate and environmental policy [[...]] She also showed that the government was working to cut greenhouse gas emissions. Thus, the representative, Mr Listhaug, has a rather unclear view of the climate crisis, and it seems that she is letting what government this country has be decisive for whether or not she believes we have a climate crisis. Then I would like to ask the representative: does she think that with today's Workers' Party-Center Party government we have a climate crisis, right?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8451	I hope the representative has read newspapers and followed the news since 2012. In that case, he should have known that I have been very clear that we have a climate challenge that Norway must be involved in. That is why the Progress Party has also presented a complete plan for how to reduce emissions in Norway. What we are critical of, however, is uncritical use of money. We're critical of the starting point for which not least SV is an exponent, where you act as if Norway can save the whole world, and that, with our little country, we're going to take a huge part of the load to bring down the emissions. Many people find it unreasonable to punish the drivers when one sees that China is building coal-fired power stations like that, when one sees that other countries are letting out more and more, while we are going to whip and plague the population. We're going to continue to fight against ordinary people being punished. Now we also have hope that the government will show these rates.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8458	Then I hope that I can get a clear answer on the question I asked the representative when she was a minister, if she was wrong in 2011 when she said that it was not proven that human CO 2 emissions lead to climate change. It should be a question it's pretty straightforward to answer right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8466	This has been happening a lot since 2012. There have been many reports. The debate has definitely come much further. There is, of course, broad agreement in this room that we should reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The Progress Party also has a plan on it. And then it becomes very interesting now to see what SV is doing in the future in negotiations with the new government. We are concerned that SV now gets a hand on the steering wheel in terms of the oil and gas industry, because we know that SV will not develop, but will liquidate. SV will be involved in budgetary negotiations with the government and is eager to increase taxes that affect ordinary people, and even if you put up some housing support for the flow, it is clear that there are very many common people who will in any case have challenges to pay. Many ordinary people can't afford to buy an electric car either, because everyone doesn't. That is why we are also afraid that SV will now help punish those who have diesel and petrol cars in the future. It's going to be interesting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8471	The representative was in his intervention busy talking about so-called IS women. Instead, I want to ask questions about another group of women that it might seem that the representative and her party have forgotten. These are the hundreds of thousands of women, and in particular men, who work in the health and care sector in Norway, and who have experienced for many decades that they are lagging behind in wage developments. The Advance Party has given this group beautiful promises, including: at the national meeting in ours, that there would be a pay gap for these. But when it came to budgeting here in the Chamber, there wasn't one penny to find a paycheck for these groups when the Progress Party made up the revised budget together with the previous government. Instead, the Progress Party voted for a forced pay bill on a weak basis, which went beyond the ability of these groups to strike for better pay. My question is, what is left of the promises of the Advancement Party to these groups other than just empty words and empty applause?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8478	I have registered that the representative Mimir Kristjánsson has previously stated that he is a Communist on Fridays. I do not know what day this was treated in Stortinget, but I would say that if you are going to sit in the main hall and decide to settle your salary, it is pure communism. It is the parties who agree on a payroll settlement, and therefore our signal was very clear that we wanted a stepping-up plan for health professionals and nurses, that kind of profession, and that the government should present it now in connection with the state budget. Unfortunately, as we can see, the outgoing government has not submitted such a plan, and I therefore hope that the newly elected government will follow this up. There is no doubt that these women and men who work in these professions deserve a higher salary for their efforts. And to the extent that we can help stimulate it, we will definitely do it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8483	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8488	People have sent 100 representatives to this process with a clear mandate for change. If you look at it historically, it's actually the second strongest overall result for the centre-left side of Norwegian politics, at least if you go back a century in time, only turned percent in 1949, hairy in front of the election in 1936. It is an expression of a desire for a change in Norwegian policy. We also know from the polls that have been made, that when people were asked what were the most important questions, most of them pointed to Difference Norway and the climate crisis. So this big business and the government that is now running has a mandate to deliver real change. 1936 and 1949 are not random times in Norwegian history. It was the year after the crisis settlement between the labour movement and the peasant movement, and it was in connection with the repatriation and the beginning of a new working life and our welfare state. In many ways we are at such a historic crossroads even today, where the inequality of power and wealth has reached a level where very many people in our country want to see a real redistribution of both money and power, where centralization has led to uprisings in the districts, and where climate change is going to take us through major changes in the years to come. So the question is whether we're going to meet those changes in a way that leads to polarization and decline, or whether it's going to be a new spring for our country, where we get the differences down, creates optimism across the country and implements a fair green shift. In SV we feel joy over the change of government. We are pleased that a new government is in place. We are also disappointed that we did not achieve what was our goal, namely the creation of a red-green government. We didn't get that because the Workers' Party and the Centre would not stretch far enough politically enough for us to do so. With the platform presented, I think everyone can see why it had to be like this. It's too much gray and too little red and green. But let there be no doubt about what is our setting. We're going to contribute powerful policies for fair distribution and environment if the government comes to us to negotiate small and big issues in the years to come. And there are a number of measures in the platform that are based on agreement between the SV, the Workers' Party and the Central Party of the Stortinge in the last period. It is positive that the government will follow up red-green consensus on a wide range of issues: the establishment of a climate budget, the phasing out of commercial actors in child protection, the reduction of child care prices, full-time employment, the introduction of school food, the cessation of the separation of experienced teachers, the College of Nesna, the Nord-Norway Railway, the scrapping of the aupair system, consent law, that Norway should join the CRPD Convention, which protects the rights of disabled people, collective redress, the doubling of the trade union deduction, the cessation of taxi industry. SV is ready to form a majority in Stortinget for things like this. Nevertheless, it is necessary to say that in order to solve the most important challenges we face – those that our party has talked about most, both in the four years that have passed, in the four years before that and in the election campaign that we have fought behind us, namely, the growing inequalities in power and wealth, the climate and nature crisis – the platform and the government's ambitions are not powerful enough. There are not enough concrete measures to significantly reduce the differences in Norway with what is on the Hurdal platform, either in terms of the necessary shift in the treatment of those who have the most in this country, those who have got everything they have pointed out over eight years with bourgeois rule, or the way we meet those who have the least. Without the will for the richest and the more to live off for people with little, the differences will not go down significantly. That is why we must get to that in the years to come. If we carry on with most of the Right Tax Cut, there will be no money for new welfare reforms and good enough municipal economy. SV will work for the school leisure system to be free of charge and for us to have a proper dental reform that closes the biggest hole in the Norwegian welfare state. And we're busy reversing the brutal unsocial cuts that the Right Rule has been exposing poor and sick for the past few years. That is not the case, for example, with fine wording. to reduce poverty among families with children. We need concrete action. SV will be concerned with redistribution of power, whether it is about moving fishing quotas from the large trawlers to the coastal fleet or doing something about what we experience is too much of a rescue of welfare capitalists and crew agencies in the government platform. Nor is the platform powerful enough to achieve the climate targets or clearly enough to address the seriousness of the natural crisis. It has in common with the dwindling government, which bombed the climate targets for 2020, which presented a plan in which they had no response to more than half of the Norwegian climate targets for 2030. But that's not the scale. The scale now is what is really going to do to make a green and fair transition. SV will carry out a fair green shift, such as: increased CO2 tax goes directly back to people through a green people's bonus. We have to see that there are fair solutions, get out of the eternal discussions where the climate crisis and distribution issues are set up against each other. We have to look for the solutions that unite both of them. Because we have to solve both of them. If we are to develop green industry and secure jobs for the future, Norway cannot continue its dependence on oil. Today, the United Nations has shown that the global plans for the development, production and sale of fossil energy in the world today will destroy the climate targets to which countries have joined. It's planned to produce 57 pst. more oil and 71 pst. more gas than the 1,5 degree target permitted. It's a paradox that the majority of the Storting has to answer. So a majority of the parties have to invest too much resources to produce and find, and at the same time they are asking for credibility that they have a plan for it not to happen. It's not going to jump. That is why there is also a need for a change in oil policy. There is a need for a better response to the UN's call to stop looking for new fossil energy. It is about the climate, but it is also about the workplaces, about how we equip the Norwegian economy for what is to come, how we can ensure that it is a future for the industry along the coast. The new government wants us to be happy today. There is a government that chooses what it will be – center government or part of a red-green cooperation. We now get a big one with a government in the middle, a bourgeois opposition and a red-green opposition where SV is the largest party. I think that the choices made by the government, of course, will also determine how red-green voters will look at it, not only the nearly half a million who voted in favour of the SV, the Red or the Green Party, and who may have given the most obvious signals of change in this election, but also very many of those who voted in favour of the Workers' Party and the Center Party. We're ready to seek red-green cooperation in this big business. We're going to meet the government constructively if it seeks cooperation with us. Such cooperation means that we have to meet the government, but it will also mean that the government has to change the course in matters that are important to SV. Finally, right now, the issue of power prices is a very important question for people in Norway, and most of all for those who have the least, those who turn off the heat in fear of electricity billing. We can't have it so that a cold harvest and a cold winter lead to those people who have the least in our country, can't have heat in their houses. Therefore, the SV has made proposals today on urgent measures both in the area of housing support, and not least in the area of including measures for those with a little more than qualifying for housing support. For housing aid, a number of tough cuts have been made in practice during the right-hand government. It is good that the government says there will be something in a few weeks, but we believe it is urgent to give people security before the next electricity bill comes, and therefore ask the Stortinge to make a decision that can give direction tomorrow. I would like to address the SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8522	Then the representative Audun Lysbakken has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8529	All children shall have equal opportunities for good education irrespective of their country of residence. Then qualified teachers are an important factor. We have an increasing teaching shortage that particularly affects the districts. The working party and SV have agreed on very many important and good proposals in Stortingen to get this done. There was an overall approach to solving this challenge, which wanted to give teachers better time and better working conditions, secure admission requirements to teacher training, and to stop the separation of skilled, experienced teachers. We have to train more, we have to keep people standing in the professions, and we have to do something to get those who have been in the profession back again. What does the representative Lighthouse think we can do together in Stortinget to get to what you're ambitious about?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8534	That, I think, is an important question, and there is a lot of red-green consensus from the previous period that can be implemented quickly. It's about stopping the separation of experienced teachers, who have been a form of meaningless symbolism policy where you risk pushing experienced teachers out of school in a situation where the number of hours taught by unqualified people has increased steadily. We can't have it like that, so it's a good move. Removing the four-dimensional requirement in math is also a good measure, simply because other intake requirements, such as: sectional characters, are smarter requirements. That is why I am absolutely sure that we can work together on such measures. Then it is important to remember that what kind of framework conditions we have for the school, also – I think – is crucial for the enthusiasm for working there in the future. That's why proper redistribution, taxing the richest harder so that we can increase the municipal economy, is also important. I hope the Working Party can be with us on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8540	I would like to take this opportunity to begin by congratulating the representative on the election and also on the very important role of the cooperation party for the new government here in Stortinget. The representative spoke in his post here today a lot about the Hurdal platform not being strong enough on climate. In the Hurdal platform, we can read that you want to ‘reduce taxes that affect people most, such as electricity taxes and fuel taxes, including differentiated user charges’. What I'm asking is whether SV can support a budget that proposes to reduce the user charge, thereby weakening the incentives for green conversion, as you escalate the CO 2 tax. Can SV support such an approach and support such a budget if it is proposed?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8555	When I emphasize that the government statement is too weak in climate, it is because I measure it up against what we now have to do. I see that it may be tempting on the civil side to use that opportunity for the greening of the Right profile. There is a lot to go about when it comes to the Right and climate policy as well. We are very clear on what we think about the CO 2 tax. It has to be stepped up linearly. We are opposed to measures that weaken the climate effect. I feel that what government parties are after is finding ways to implement this, which at the same time takes care of social and geographical considerations. We're also very concerned about that. And then we think there's smarter ways to do it than the Workers' Party and the Center's pointed out right now. That is what is in our proposal for a green people's bonus.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8565	I think we all agree with the principle that when you increase taxes that affect people most, it's also nice to bring down someone else. My specific question was whether SV is willing to support proposals that simply weaken the point of increasing the CO 2 tax, the point of setting a price on it to pollute. If you compensate for something that actually keeps it at rest, you don't achieve that effect. That is why we put forward proposals in our budget to also lower some taxes, to give some other deductions – the commuter deduction is an example – to just fine the increase in the CO 2 tax. But the representative does not respond to what I am asking, which is whether he can support a budget that actually weakens the important mechanism of increasing the CO 2 tax. We don't get to the goal if we're going to drive and compensate for what it's meant to be. I want a clearer answer to that. It would also have been nice to know whether SV agrees that it is urgent that the government submit this new climate plan they have announced, whether they will support the proposal we have promoted in Stortinget that it must come by the end of February 2022.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8581	First of all, I would like to thank you for your congratulations and to welcome the representative, Bru, to the House. I look forward to good cooperation with the Right when we agree. So let's look at the Right's suggestion now, we might be able to figure something out right now. It is good that the representative, Bru, is now very clear on the weaknesses of eroding the CO 2 tax, because that is exactly what the bourgeois majority has been doing in recent years through their budgetary cooperation with the Progress Party. Then the government has now presented something that is clearer, in confidence that this time they will not negotiate with the Progress Party. I think it's nice to raise the level of ambition, but I think we should now be able to acknowledge that we are now fortunately in a situation that is opposite to what has been going on in recent years, namely that the sitting government will meet a party for negotiations that have higher climate ambitions, while the government of Tina Bru set in, based on cooperation with a party that would always reduce climate ambition.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8591	I would like to congratulate and, to the extent also, thank the representative Lightbakken for having a minority government, which is making it much more exciting on the Stortinget. We now have many politicians in Norway, in both SV and other parties, who want to shut down the oil and gas industries and talk it down, even though we see that they spend the money that this industry creates, with both hands. SV has been working on doomsday prophecies about the industry for a number of years, but opinions on the oil tax package take cake. The representative Kaski said there is no guarantee that the oil will still be profitable after the crisis. And on the other hand, ‘I think we are entering into a more or less permanent state of lower oil prices now, both next year and in the decades to come.’ Never before has Norway served more on oil and gas than in recent months. How does the representative Lysbakken think the party's oil analysis has taken place, and will SV include oil policy in the budgetary negotiations with the Workers' Party and the Centre's Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8605	First of all, I say thank you for all the congratulations, but I would like to stress that although it may have the side effect of making the representative of Listhaug more exciting – which I think is nice to see – the whole point for SV to go in opposition is that we think we can get more in that way. My goal is that the representative, Listhaug in sum, will be more dissatisfied that we made that choice when we get out in the period. Yes, I mean SV's analysis of oil is good, because in the oil policy of the majority of Norwegian politics you don't take into account what is the brutal mathematics of climate policy: it's already found more fossil energy in the world than what we can burn. Then it is very risky to put this country's economic future – the future of our industry – on a bet that we should be able to sell as much as the Progress Party and a number of other parties add.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8612	It's creative to say that the analysis is good at a time when we earn more than ever, but it's now. I am interested in getting an answer to my second question. The Progress Party has experience in budget negotiations. We have included in some of the negotiations issues that are not necessarily part of the budget. I can mention that in this year's budget we finally managed to get both the Left and the Christian People's Party to kneel and tighten up on the number of years you have to stay in Norway before you get permanent residence. That is why my question is once again: Will the representative Lysbakken and SV take oil policy with them into negotiations on the state budget and demand that what we know about the party is implemented, namely to start a liquidation and not a development of this industry? There are many people who are concerned about, and I think it would have been very nice if we could get an answer and a clarification on this right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8619	SV will, of course, use its influence in Stortinget to try to express also oil and gas policy. Of course we will. Why is this important? Well, it's important for climate reasons, but it's also an incredibly important discussion and some incredibly important road choices that are now taking place about the future of Norwegian industry. This ‘developing, not liquidating’ slogan is a bit strange, because it seems that it is the oil that should never be dissolved, even though everyone really realizes that the world is gradually going away from fossil energy. The United States and the EU shall be carbon neutral by 2050. China shall be carbon neutral in 2060. We have to prepare for a world where it will no longer be a large market for fossil energy. Something else is an economic downfall recipe for this country. Then the question is not how we develop or liquidate the oil, but how we develop or wind up the industry. Then a more oil-independent policy is a recipe for developing and maintaining our industry, while the Progress Party line is a line for liquidation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8626	Time's up. - Lightbox has to wait a bit, another line comes up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8631	The president knocked so excited that I felt it was time to go down!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8636	That's the good representative has respect, but everything is in a way!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8642	Let me also start by congratulating the representative Lightbakken with a good choice and congratulating him that it did not lead to government participation for his party. But this is just as fully a government he has let go, and it was even a government that the representative in his post said he knew how pleased he was. It is tempting to conclude that the representative Lighthouse must be easy to enjoy. But let's now drill a little bit in what this government stands for, and it's special about climate and nature. When I read the Hurdal platform, and I read about what's going on about the climate and nature, I see unprecedented weaknesses in today's policy. In the climate field, it shall be cheaper to fly, cheaper fuel, more expensive to buy an electric car and a weaker electric car target itself. By nature, a hunt for exterminated predators, landowners shall be vetoed against protection, and one shall have a more relaxed land policy than today. Then my question to SV is very simple, and it is: Does SV think that the climate and environmental policy of the Hurdal platform in total is better for climate and environment than the one that led the previous government?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8651	When we are pleased with the change of government, it is because the Left Government has been part of it, a government that has systematically led an unsocial policy of distribution and that has not achieved the main objectives of climate policy – the bombing of the 2020 targets and setting a plan to bomb the 2030 targets. As for the hero story that Left is now trying to create for itself – and I acknowledge that the Left has stood on the right side and tried to do a good job for the climate and the environment – the climate issue is not worth making a hero story about a government that failed. I understand that the Left may have party-tactical needs for it, but the climate issue is not served by it, because the government of Rotevatn was the climate minister, delivered too badly. Then I don't answer for the Hurdal platform – climate and nature were one of the reasons we left Hurdal. I am answering for SV's policy and what we intend to do. This is a new fresh one, so the government gets to show its cards, and then we're going to negotiate with it. [[President clubs]] We're going to make tough climate and nature demands.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8660	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8665	You don't get the answer from the representative Light Hill. He would certainly be actively not answering the question, for he says he does not answer for the Hurdal platform. He makes it easy to take that approach, because it's easy to compare with his own party program or to compare it with an ideal, but when we talk about which government governs Norway, it's not entirely unnatural or unnatural to compare a government's policy with the previous government's policy. There may be a reason why the representative will not answer yes or no to that question, and it is because it is not possible to see in this government platform that there is some strengthening of climate or nature policy – rather the opposite. I am perhaps the most concerned about it in the field of nature, because much of the climate policy is about taxes, and there is going to be a negotiation in the state budget, but when it comes to protection issues, predatory issues, issues of caring for vulnerable ecosystems, it is largely determined in government. Is the representative Lysbakken comfortable with it when you see how weak the political basis here is?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8672	I'm not interested in the problem because the dwindling government can't be the scale. Retirement government, where the representative Rotevatn was sitting, failed. That's what's fasitating after eight years of bourgeois government. It failed to achieve the 2020 targets, failed to put in place a sustainable plan to achieve the 2030 targets. Now we have a new government that has barely begun to work. Fortunately, it is too early to say whether they will fail or not, but what they have presented on the government platform is not enough to succeed. Still, there's a new start. We're done with a government that didn't get it done. We have got a new government that now has an opportunity, and that has to negotiate in Stortinget – we hope – with a party with far greater ambitions. Then we'll meet again – we'll probably get a lot of opportunities along the way too – and sum up when it's time, when we get to 2025. That's when we know the answer to Rotevatn's question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8679	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8684	The choice in the autumn was historic – not only did Red come across the barrier as the first new party since it was introduced, but we also received a historically strong majority for a new and more fair course for the country, as Gahr Støre set out in his statement. It's very long-awaited with a shift after eight dark blue years. I think it gives a fresher eigen in the air out there. Ordinary people are clear, we look at the election result, with 100 mandates for a shift. Now we have to put an end to the billionaires getting everything they're pointing at, the differences have to go down. There are several good intentions in the Hurdal platform to reduce inequality and injustice, to a socially and geographically just environmental policy, not to commercialise basic welfare services and also to equalise dental services with other health services. But so far is this word on a paper. In several fields, the platform is too pale to ensure the change that people have voted for and that our country needs. Now there's a need for action. The red-green jolla from Lake Hurdal needs a suspension engine that gives both speed and direction, and Red is ready with suggestions to help the government secure a real new course. In our country, a large majority of the population has long thought that it is a main task for politicians to bring down the differences between people. This is not strange, because Norway has become a class society with too many economic and geographical differences. Where you live, and what you have in the account, has too much to say about how much power and what opportunities you have. Therefore, I wonder: Is there an accident at work when there is a sentence on the platform to maintain the small differences in Norway? For these are the formulations that we recognize from the platforms to the dissidents in the Right and the Advance Party. It is not entirely in touch when it is also on the platform: ‘Increasing abstinence, services privatised and centralised, and increasing inequality are conducive to trust, security and cohesion.’ Differences have increased for many decades under varying governments, including on the guards of the Workers' Party and the Centre's Party. We're not going to keep the differences, they're going to go down -- not least because we know that the coronary apathy has increased the differences even more. Many billionaires have become even richer through the crisis, while hundreds of thousands of workers have lost their jobs, have been outsourced, have fallen into income. Then, fortunately, the opposition in the last period raised the level of the daily allowance, and the government has announced an extension of this for the duration of the crisis. Then I wonder: why should we not learn from the experience we gained in the spring of 2020 that the safety net was too weak when the crisis hit us? Why should the unemployed in 2023, in particular those who have had low incomes, pay less than those who are unemployed in 2021? Then, too, the fight against Difference Norway is about the fight against centralisation. That is why I would like to congratulate Mr Bunadsgeriljaen on an important victory for the food supply in Kristiansund, and also the activists in Helgeland with the University of Nesna. But the fight is not over, it continues for an active district policy for work and welfare throughout our country, for Ullevål hospitals and for a settlement with coercive mergers also in the West, South and throughout Norway. We know that it flashes code red for both the environment and humanity. In this field, the government doesn't deliver. On one hand, there is an increased measure of emissions reduction — well and well. At the same time, it continues much of Erna Solberg's oil policy. The Workers' Party and the Centre have also made a settlement with the citizens, who have proved to be extremely profitable, primarily for the oil directors. A bad course for more oil exploration is not what the world needs, and we have found more oil and gas than the climate can withstand that we burn up. The richest ten percent release twice as much as the rest of us, and the strictest demands must be made for those who emit the most. I think ordinary people are ready for an effort for the climate as long as everyone contributes. Red is a driving force for environmental policy to be both powerful and fair. It is then important that environmental taxes such as the notified increased CO2 tax are made socially and geographically fair. Here, there have been concrete proposals that we would like to help the government implement. Then there's a proposal that we're promoting today, which I hope all the parties in the hall will see the benefits of. Just as the government responds to questions from the Storting and also provides financial calculations to alternative budgets, Red believes that government and government have to respond to the climate impact of measures in the treatment of the government's forecast climate budget. Just as we can calculate the distribution effect of batches' tax arrangements, the distribution effect of climate policy should also be calculated so that it becomes both accurate and fair. Such a suggestion I believe and hope all parties should be able to gather behind. We know that record power prices worry a lot, and that shock prices increase Difference Norway. The market has gone down, and Red will take back control of our legacy silver. We will control the power and power prices in line with Norwegian interests, we will say no to new export cables and slow down the export through existing cables. For years, we have been at the forefront of actions for people with poor advice and high electricity billing and have suggested that this should be done quickly at the first meeting of the Stortinge in this session. I would like to welcome both the Right and the Government on important points today, but we still have a way to go. Then there will be another important blow in this ageing period about the commercialisation of the kindergarten sector. Red is at the head of a profit-free kindergarten sector. Here are good intentions in the Hurdal platform, in stark contrast to the government that thought there was no fundamental difference in running kindergarten and running a car workshop. The fact that we now have a government that sees differences between children and cars is a step forward and a good starting point. But then it's 100 pst. impossible to ensure that government grants and parental payments go to kindergartens and the best of children without reintroducing the prohibition of profit into the childcare law. The points of the platform on commercial kindergartens are impossible to implement in comparison with the citizens. Therefore, the government must come to the left of the Storting to ensure a new policy, and Red is ready to move in the right direction. Now it's been the welfare profiter's trip for too long, now it's got to be enough. The government says it should shift power to ordinary people. It obliges, power needs to be shifted in the labour market, and we need to have more trade unions – collective agreements. Then we know more than enough about how hiring and staffing agencies have broken down and undermined permanent jobs in the workplace – in construction sites, but also in the public sector and in our offices. The action required is a ban on these recruitment agencies. It has never been a matter of course that workers and people with poor advice have something they should have said, and standing up for them is a task we take most seriously. With our record selection, we have now received a stronger voice on Stortinget. We have over 140,000 votes in our backs, and people from all over the country have given us confidence. Increasingly, we are a party for those sitting at the bottom of the table. We need to be a constructive, impatient and unreasoning force on the Stortinget. The platform is a start from the government, but where the intentions are good, there is a lot missing from the action page. But with the help of a red and powerful suspension engine, I have great faith that it will be possible to make a road in the well. With that, I take up Red's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8721	The representative Bears Moxnes has drawn up the suggestions he made. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8728	Norway is going to convert large parts of our industry in the coming years, and we have to do it on the back of the existing industry. Such a conversion will require, among other things. a high level of renewable energy. I understand that Red will cut strongly in oil production and stop all exploration, while Red will slam the door again for example. the development of sea winds. Combined, this will make it very difficult for Norwegian industry, and will put Norwegian industrial workplaces at risk. And as I saw the leader of Greenpeace, Red's no serves neither climate nor jobs. I would like to ask whether the representative, Mr Moxnes, who is also the leader of Red, will be involved in and reconsidering Red's position on this and will be able to support measures to strengthen the development of marine wind technology?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8733	Our refusal to sea wind is about a precautionary principle. We've learned a little bit from the vast numbers of whistles with wind power on land. Everyone was uncritical of wind power on land. Then it came, and we saw the consequences, and now many have taken a little bit more of the sense. We will avoid destroying the fisheries and destroying the marine environment by having a strict precautionary attitude to this. With regard to the future of industry on land, it's like the industry needs power, and then it's very strange that the Workers' Party is sending 10 pst. of Norway’s power generation in the North Sea. It will not cut the emissions globally – because then you will send the gas to the continent instead, to burn there – but it will drain the mainland for 15 TWh with electricity, which is desperately needed to build new green industry on land. That position should perhaps be reconsidered by the Workers' Party. It is anti-industrial and has zero climate impact.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8740	If someone should reconsider their views on this matter, I think it's Red – with all due respect to report. Frode Alfheim, Federal Head of Industry Energy, states on the occasion of the case: ‘A total no to sea wind will brutally weaken Norwegian industry’s ability to play a central role in green shifts both nationally and internationally. For example, Aker Verdal has had production and supplies to this industry to compensate for a lack of commitment to the oil industry.» In the platform, the government writes: ‘Add a large-scale bet on sea wind through an ambitious national maritime wind strategy that includes, inter alia, Norwegian supplier industry, good regulation and development of network infrastructure [[...]] Will Red really say no to join this initiative, which can secure the future of many, many thousands of industrial jobs and help with the green transition?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8758	Red is a constructive party. We have a primary position. When there is no majority in this Chamber, of course, we are very ready to ensure that what is then being developed is done in a way that both takes care of environmental concerns and ensures that the missions go to Norwegian industry. Here's our challenge now that we're part of the EEA. This makes it difficult to prioritize and ensure that the missions go to just Norwegian shipyards. We want a much more active industrial policy to ensure that that is exactly what is going to happen. In addition, we have a policy – unlike the Workers' Party – that can ensure that we get enough power to build more green industry on land as well. It's very strange that you want to send 10 pst. of our power generation out on the sea, instead of ensuring that the power goes to the industry on land, and the Workers' Party must answer for: What is the logic of such a policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8763	I would like to begin by congratulating Mr. Moxnes and his party on a good choice. It's probably, quite deserved, created joy in Red. I think we should also take seriously that there is concern among many others in Norway, who are concerned about authoritarian forces on the march, about divisive and, to some extent, shameless rhetoric and populism, and not least about the fact that there are also parties that can go to elections and succeed in turning down on the best and most stable democracy in the world. That is a good reason for concern. When we hear the Moxnes both in the election campaign and from the pulpit, we are left with a question as to whether, in full seriousness, Red and Moxnes know what is stated in the Constitution § 105. Since I know that Moxnes is a knowledgeable guy, he probably does, but the important question then is, do they take it seriously?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8770	There is basically no doubt about the policy of Red when it comes to democracy and our view of it. We are a party that, both in principle and not least in practical policy, fights for the widest possible rule of people, of course in a system that also has inviolable rights for individuals, which cannot be surpassed by a majority by various majority decisions. In Stortinget, we have seen that the Right in Government has unfortunately been at the head of narrowing and narrowing very much of the Grand Government's control functions in order to have democratic control over what the executive in our system is doing. So, both in practical politics, on the Stortinget, in local governments, in county councils, we are fighting for more democracy, more popular government, and we are also, in principle, clear about that. So it's actually maybe most of the inside of the Right Head confusion first and foremost.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8775	The Constitution § 105 establishes private ownership. Private ownership is not for the few, it is for everyone in Norway, rich and poor, old and young, who is protected from authoritarian politicians coming in and taking possession of what they own. I can understand that is a right that must be annoying to Red many times, because it is an effective obstacle to much of Red's policy. We can take some examples from the programme: for example, turning businesses into forced cooperatives or going into and seizing assets that the owner himself does not use, policies that would never have passed through a Norwegian court. It can't be done with our constitution, it can't be done in our state of law. My question to Red is very simple and simple: will they change the Convention on Human Rights? Because they have to if they are to do this. Will they change the Constitution and weaken private ownership if they are to implement it? It's okay for us to know, because then we know when to vote no.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8782	Yeah, it'll probably be very clear on the right when you need a no from the right. What we want to ensure is the ownership of many people and also the right to participate in and control the development of society in general. Clearly, there is a capitalist property right that makes some people have the right to rule the work of others, to dictate and command their work. That's very much for the right. On the other hand, we are very much in favour of democratic governance in the workplace too, that the real values, i.e. the workers, must also have democracy in their workplaces, can even choose their own boss. That is democracy in practice. We are to expand the influence of workers on the business they work in, through the selection of management. We think it is important to be able to make it possible for workers to own more of the business they work in, in order to ensure more proliferation of power, while the Right's policy in practice always leads to capitalist power concentration on increasingly fewer hands. We'll see that over and over again.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8787	I would also like to congratulate Mr Moxnes on his position as parliamentary leader and hope that his now larger group will continue to support the Centre Party and the Cultural Policy of the Workers Party, as they often did in the previous period. Because, after all the right-wing governments, cultural policy is now also in need of more social and geographical cohesion. Therefore, the new government will implement a new local and regional cultural promise – a promise that will benefit the whole country and ensure that people have access to art and culture, regardless of who they are, or where they live. That is why we must, among other things, establish regional cultural funds, strengthen regional film efforts, facilitate more cultural workplaces and environments outside Oslo and gradually increase culture's share of the state budget by 1 p.m., so that the local cultural base wall is provided with more resources, such as libraries and the cultural school system. Will Red be involved in supporting our cultural promise, which will focus in particular on local and regional culture?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8794	This is one of the areas where there are many good intentions in the Hurdal comrades statement. There are fields where we might disagree more than with this. For us, this is precisely about being able to provide a good financial framework for a free and independent cultural life around the country, and all the actions of the government that are moving in such a direction, Red will support with both life and desire, I am sure.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8799	Red is still saying that they are too powerful climate action. Nevertheless, they are still opposed to the increase in green taxes. One has previously opposed the bombing, e.g. In Oslo or other major cities, cooperation on power cables in Europe is opposed to extending stronger climate cooperation in Europe through the EEA Agreement, and we have also heard today that Red is against using power from countries or measures against the petroleum sector to reduce emissions there. We have to cut emissions in the petroleum sector by 50 pst. in order to be able to achieve the objectives of reducing emissions by 55 pst. by 2030. I am Red against cutting the Norwegian emissions by 55 pst. by 2030, or how are they going to get it?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8804	Red supports and even raises the targets for emissions cuts, but we do not go on the climate bubble that is supposed to send clean, renewable power out for electrification of our oil platforms. What happens to the gas that drives them today? Yes, it is exported instead to the continent and to England for incineration there. It will have no effect on global emissions that we're sending the power out to the North Sea. It's a bluff. This will result in a loss of power that can be used to build green industry in Norway, which will be important to contribute to global climate change. We also see more and more export cables for electricity. It drains Norway for electricity needed to process raw materials with low CO 2 emissions, unlike countries where gas and coal are used instead. So that's in our view the wrong environmental policy, and we're against it for that reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8812	It could also be used to reduce emissions in the petroleum sector in order to bring up the technology on liquid sea winds – an additional effect. But to the figures: Today, Norwegian emissions are 49,3 million tonnes. To reduce by 55 pst. by 2030 it must be 23,04 million tonnes. We're not going to do that without cutting at least 50-60 pst. in the petroleum sector and in production. Then we also have to use force from land. We can use floating sea winds, we can use local CCS, but it has to be implemented, otherwise we don't reach the target. The question remains: is not Red willing to have enough measures to reduce Norwegian emissions by 55 pst?? These are the Norwegian emissions within which this is counted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8817	Red has presented a number of proposals, a separate plan, to cut emissions in Norway. We have to fly less, we have to use the car less, we have to get our continental electrified industry – a series of measures, a number of fields to bring down the emissions forcefully, fairly and quickly enough. But it's kind of strange, this with our oil platforms. The electricity supply cannot deny that in the case of the gas currently used to operate the platforms, and if the electricity is collected from land instead, the same gas is exported to combustion on the continent or in England. It will have a zero impact on global emissions if you do it that way. So the back is, of course, that if you do it like this, you bottle the mainland for a lot of electricity that is needed to build the green industry – as we look at the news of these days. We believe it is a contrast between that policy and actually ensuring a real, green shift for our industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8823	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8828	The left has spent almost four years in government, and after sitting with power for eight years, we managed this harvest to make progress in elections. It's actually quite historical -- it's not something that happens very often. Like other party leaders who have been up here and interpreted their election results as an example of what the voters want more of, I'm of course interpreting that as an example that the voters see that a strong, liberal, green, and internationally oriented party is needed on the Stortinget. Having seen the government statement, I am not less in doubt that it is necessary, and that the Left has an important role to play in this big deal. Fortunately, there is a minority government, and that in practice means all the power in this room. I hope this hall uses that power to make sure that we draw the policy in a greener direction. Through the election campaign, we saw that when Prime Minister candidate – now Prime Minister – Jonas Gahr Støre spent a lot of time talking about ‘common people’. There have been many who have addressed that concept in this debate as well, and many have speculated a little about who these common people are. I believe many of us who are in this room, also quite often feel like ordinary people, even though we have some unusual roles in society, but I have to admit that I wasn't quite prepared for being one of these common peoples who was taken by politics to the government. I'll say a little bit more about that later. The Labour Party is at its best a party for which I have great respect, a party that dares to stand in major reforms, and which often believes that it is important to do the right thing, not always just what is popular. However, there are several who have used formulations such as these. Arne Strand, who said that unfortunately the eagle of Norwegian politics became «a corn among many» in a new party landscape. At my discretion, the Prime Minister's party has become a party that has been driven from shame to shame to manage to hold a party like SV in and make sure that the Centre Party did not take too many of their voters. The result, I think, is a policy of flakes and slogans and little concrete content. I believe that the policy should be assessed on content and concrete measures and not on rhetoric, and I promise that we will also do so with this government. We're going to stick the Workers' Party to the standards they've set themselves as a governing party, and we're going to help fill the empty phrases of the Støre and Vedum with real political content that gives more opportunities and more freedom to everyone. For the next four years, we're going to deliver proposals to bring down emissions, which are going to make the school better, and which are going to give business a tight path into the green shift. This is not our government. The majority have this government thanks to SV, Red and the Greens. Nevertheless, we should use every opportunity to promote a good policy that takes the country forward and not in reverse. Unfortunately, I think there was a little too much Turkish Battle Force Vedum and a little too little Jonas Gahr Støre in the statement that the Council of State held from this pulpit on Monday. It was poor in concrete policies, and it was rich in cheap flakes. We know it from the election campaign, but now I believe that the time has come to become concrete. And whose turn is it really? Many of these bottles are easy to agree with, but what does that mean? Who's doing it at the expense of? What does it mean when we say we're going to put ordinary people first, when we're going to develop all of Norway, and when we're going to have good services close to people? Very nice words, but how do you actually get it? What hits ordinary people in front of something is that this government is suspending climate policy. Yes, it shares the climate objectives of the previous government, and not all countries where the national Parliament agrees on such a target. So that's the situation with us, and we're going to be happy for that. The fact that we have a debate on measures and not on objectives is a very good starting point for actually succeeding in climate policy. Nevertheless, I am not able to find in the government statement a single new measure that allows Norway to cut more emissions than the current climate plan provides. On the contrary, there are several proposals here that contribute to weakening and eroding the measures already contained in the climate plan. The government will make it cheaper to fly, it will make it cheaper to buy petrol, and then it will make it more expensive to buy an electric car. This is completely impossible for me to reconcile with an offensive and good climate policy. So it sounds improperly nice that you should be able to make exceptions to some of these fees for some groups. What I fear is that when someone gets an exception, the burden for ordinary people gets heavier, and if the polluter doesn't have to pay – yes, then there are ordinary people who have to pay, either now or in the future, if we push the problems ahead of us. If we now throw away these four years without cutting emissions, the next four years will become more heavy for ordinary people and for a business that will slow down global competition for the jobs of the future. It is also the turn of ordinary people in business to know new uncertainties — uncertainty about our main trade agreement and the relationship with Europe, which this government serves a business that is on the path of improvement after a pandemic. Now maybe entrepreneurs don't count as ordinary people, but they're going to know that this government has more faith in the state than in the private sector. The State shall rule more, the State shall own more, the State shall buy up, and the State shall pick up the winners. And where else in the platform there's talk of more trust and more power for ordinary people, there's no sign of it in business policy. On the contrary, now there is more state, and it is the usual Labour Party state tour in Norwegian business. It's also the turn of ordinary people to receive more state support, and that's where I've found that I also belong to the Prime Minister's definition of ordinary people. I get cheaper babysitting space for my two sons, about NOK 1000 extra on book each month. But am I really the one who needs it the most? I live in one of the districts of Oslo with the greatest social inequality, with the most child poverty. I see people around me every single day who had needed this support more. They are the ones who are struggling to pay the bills at the end of the month, and who may not even have the money to send the kids full time in the nursery. When the government wants to give me cheaper kindergarten, it takes from those who need that support more than me. It's nice to be counted as one of the common people, but I don't think it should be my turn now. Nor do ordinary people need us to weaken the requirements for knowledge and quality in school. A good school is the most important thing we can do to combat social inequality and to give everyone equal opportunities in life. Then it is our responsibility that we make the same strict requirements for teachers, regardless of where they have taken their education, or wherever in the country where they work. And you shouldn't have to be an unusually committed and forward parent to ensure your kid a good education. The statement states that all children should be ‘capable of success in primary school’. In order for this to be a reality, in order to succeed both normal and perhaps unusual children, they need appropriate training. Then we need to know something about what the kids can do. Then we need better mapping tools than what we have today. But the work we've been doing on developing better screening tools that give us more knowledge about the individual student, the government will pause. So it's not the usual student tour. I think it should be those who need it the most, their turn, for example. Drug addicts, who unfortunately continue to face punishment rather than help because the Workers' Party and the Centre voted down the drug reform in ours, or the student who will no longer be allowed to opt out of the secondary school where he or she experiences bullying, or the youth who have bred for the climate and who now have to deal with a grey government running the same line of oil policy. They are also ordinary people, and it should be their turn. If Store is willing to fill part of the bottles with concrete contents, e.g. in the climate, I will promise that we will support him in everything that makes us achieve our climate goals, that we protect nature, that we bet on small businesses, and that we give everyone more freedom.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8862	The President will invite you to try to find expressions other than 'flakes' when commenting on other parties' policies. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8869	I hear that the representative Melby does not enjoy lower nursery prices, but she can be pleased that she will be allowed to pay more in taxes. But that's not what I was supposed to ask. Global health researchers point to good welfare systems, a strong public health system and trust as an important key to success in pandemic management. The representative Melby, who has previously been a Minister of Knowledge, has learned how important the welfare state has been to address the pandemic in Norway. With this hindrance, does the Left-leader still think it was a good idea to go to the elections to weaken the health pay system?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8878	We are very concerned about preserving the welfare state, maintaining good welfare arrangements now, but also for future generations. Then I believe that all of us sitting in this room have a great responsibility to look at all our welfare systems and to ensure that they contribute to people applying for a job, to ensure that they contribute to providing us all with security, but also to ensure that our arrangements are sustainable. We're in a situation where we have one of the world's highest sick leave. Going into the arrangements we have, and seeing if they can be even better designed, so that they make better, yes, perhaps even so that they make even more social than they do today – because today there is a big difference between many of those who become long-term ill, versus those who have shorter courses of disease – I believe that we all have a responsibility for, looking at those schemes both to ensure the sustainability of the welfare state and to ensure the most possible social arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8885	The representative Melby used about his entire post to talk about ordinary people, but nevertheless demonstrated to the full that she did not understand who ordinary people are. The pandemic we're now on our way out has shown us what kind of work we have, and how different assumptions we have in our everyday lives. Some have been at home offices, while others have been physically at work for example. public transport and kindergarten — more in professions with a much lower income than those in home offices, e.g. assistants in kindergarten from the Melby sector have just been responsible for. Does Melby think it is fair and socially sustainable that an employee who works in kindergarten and cannot have a home office when he or she is ill should be paid when they are ill, while someone who can sit in a home office does not?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8892	Fortunately, in the pandemic we're about to leave behind, we've made our own arrangements to ensure that people who aren't going to work, don't do it, and to make sure that we take care of those who get sick, and those who for different reasons need the arrangements we have. That's why the government, throughout the pandemic, has also put up quite a lot of better arrangements than what we normally have, among other things. being at home with sick children, permitting schemes and other things. The fact that, in such a crisis situation, rules are made that are adapted to that crisis situation, I think we should also do so in the future. So in a pandemic situation, there's absolutely no reason to have restrictions on, for example. sickness pay scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8897	The pandemic taught us who were critically important workers. The daily lives of these workers are characterised by low income, low pay, precarious jobs, and they know of disembarkation. Recruitment of young people to these professions requires greater respect in this room and thus clear signals to the labour and business community that these professionals need a greatly improved income, salary and employment. This therefore gives increased interest in the vocational training of these professions and the basis for improvement — and I stress improvement — of vocational and vocational education. Will the Left facilitate such a positive pool of forces for critically important workers?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8904	Well, I would say that the pandemic showed that there were quite a number of groups in society that we are totally dependent on for the wheels to go around even in a crisis situation. But I also share the representative's view that there are a lot of skilled workers in Norway who do a very important job. There is no doubt that we need more skilled workers in the future. There are a lot of industries that lack skilled workers and that are struggling with recruitment, and we have a great responsibility to improve that situation. Over the years we've been in power, we've been doing a lot of steps to increase the search to just professional, and it's also very happy to see that the search has gone up. Now more than half of all young people are applying for secondary education. One of the things I got the honour to do as a minister of knowledge was to present a completion reform, and in addition to getting the youth to apply for a profession, we also have to make sure that they can get through. When more than one third are unable to complete vocational education, we all have a great responsibility to provide more adapted training, to ensure more apprenticeships and to contribute to raising these levels of education.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8911	It is true that we learned a lot about working life in the context of the pandemic, but I use the term ‘critically important workers’ because it was the government’s own concept, its own expression, which it felt was necessary for special groups to receive special treatment at the Norwegian border. It was a special treatment because those groups were so critically important. It's no coincidence that we've come into this situation. These include: because respect for the critical professions is not high enough in this room. Will the Left agree to speak out these workers that are necessary to make Norway work every day? Will the Left, like the old teaching party, talk out vocational training, practical vocational training, so that they can feel the sense of social security, the young people who want and have a dream of investing in those industries?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8918	Of course, the left is happy to talk about these professions and these subjects, but I think it is more important that we provide concrete measures that increase recruitment, that even more people apply for it, and not least that they also get a better follow-up through their education, so that more people complete and survive. One of the main problems, one of the reasons we lack skilled workers today, is that very many of those who start a professional at school today, don't finish, or they spend a very long time completing. Many people don't get an apprenticeship because they're not well prepared, and those who don't get an apprenticeship get an offer in school that is far below the standards we should expect today. So I hope that the new government will follow up our completion reform, that it will not least continue the strong promise we have made to the county councils. With our budget, we have now increased the investment in higher education by 800 million. kr. I hope that the new government surpasses us in that effort, because I think there is a need for a strong commitment to high school in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8924	The Progress Party is proud of the fact that we were given a kindergarten settlement in 2003 – a cooperation between the public and private actors that has given massive development, led to full child care coverage and to freedom of choice and a healthy diversity of kindergartens. Half of the country’s 300,000 kindergarten children are in a private nursery today, and this is perhaps the most successful welfare reform in Norway in the last 20 years. The fact that the left side attacks the private nursery sector with ideological skyscrapers is sad, and in Oslo we have also seen an active policy to get rid of the private nursery sector. What is incomprehensible, on the other hand, is that the previous government as a delegation in its last budget put in a cut of 472 million. kr to private kindergartens. It's dramatic, when we know that 40-50 pst. private kindergartens have been budgeted for deficits in recent years. What will the representative Melby say to all the hundreds of thousands of parents who have children in private kindergartens, and who may be concerned about the consequences this gets for their kindergarten?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8933	There is no doubt that private kindergartens have had an incredibly important part of the credit because we have full kindergarten coverage in Norway. They were there and set up in a hurry when we needed them. That is why it has also been important for us to ensure good framework conditions for private kindergartens in the years that followed, not least to ensure that all children get a good kindergarten, whether they go to private or public kindergartens, and that we keep low prices in both private and public kindergartens. At the same time, I believe that the representative also shares my opinion that we should ensure that subsidies to private drivers are properly calculated and that they are not overcompensated for expenses that they do not have. This is about having a good management of taxpayers' money. We're not going to overcompensate anyone for a service they provide. And that's how calculations have shown that we've overcompensated private kindergartens for their pension costs. Then we think it's right that we reduce that overcompensation. We've put on a compensation of 11 pst, while the real calculations show that most of them are about 9 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8942	‘Students’ income is increasingly behind the rest of the population. If we are to guarantee equal rights to education, students must have an economy to live on." We could read this on the Left's website two years before they joined the government. But the speech of the numbers is clear: two thirds of the students say that part-time work is essential to afford to study at all. One in three students believes that the economy is going beyond their school performance, and the situation is so serious that students go on average with NOK 5000 to minus every month. Not only do students have to have a student loan, they also have to take up a consumer loan. After so many years when the left has had a hand on the steering wheel, I would like to ask if the representative agrees that more should be done for the students, and that we can now do even more.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8951	I'm proud of what the Left has done for the students. In our eight years of power, we got one thing that SV failed to do in its eight years in a majority government, from 2005 to 2013, namely to introduce 11 months of study support. That means that students now receive student support for all the months they actually study, not for one month less, as it was when SV crashed. There is no doubt that with the promise we have now made, we are able to improve the financial situation of the students, but the Left obviously believes that we need to raise it further. What I'm most concerned about is that we can't make an even adjustment, but that we're dependent on the kind of power that left got when we got the power to do that, and that SV didn't get to. I definitely hope that SV will use its power to influence the government to improve the conditions of the students, both with student housing and not least study support over the next four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8960	First, I would like to congratulate the representative on the election. It's not all the games to get across the barrier right now! Now that the Left is no longer dependent on cooperation with parties with values other than their own, we see good cooperation on the Storting to take care of our common basis of life. One important issue for which it is possible to cooperate is to bring down collective prices. The latest in the Oslopack 3 negotiations was literally thrown out by the Greens to replace the proposal that was on the table, which could ensure cheaper public transport in Oslo and Akershus, with today's solution, including the money. goes to build a new motorway under the existing road on E18. Today, we are once again promoting a proposal to make public transport cheaper by reducing the ticket price for trains and other public transport by 20 pst. Is this a proposal that the Left can join us on?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8969	In fact, I think it's very important to cooperate with parties with which we don't share the value base if we're going to get something into politics. That is precisely why we have managed to implement the collective promise of the times, that a city like Oslo has caused billions to expand public transport, and that we have managed to protect important vulnerable areas at sea, such as the Lofoten, the Vestralen and Senja. So I think it's important for parties to dry up cooperating with parties that you disagree with in many cases. I also believe that all the green parties on Stortinget should do that. Then, of course, we will also be positive in cooperating to implement important measures that make it easier for people to choose environmentally friendly. But I have to say that I'm a little surprised that the Greens, who have been in power both in Oslo and in the Week, have not been able to use that power in the forums that actually determine the collective prices. When left got an opportunity to lower the collective prices a few years ago, we used that opportunity to reduce the price of the monthly card considerably. I think it is a pity that the Greens have not done so.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8976	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e8981	First, I want to use the opportunity to thank Erna Solberg and her state councils for the efforts they have made for Norway for eight years. I would also like to congratulate Prime Minister Jonas Gahr Støre and the new government on their work on behalf of the Greens. Norway is well served by a government that manages to address the major challenges ahead of us. In 1930, in the middle of the Great Depression, the famous economist John Maynard Keynes wrote an essay entitled Economic Opportunities for Our grandchildren. Keynes was optimistic. In 1930 he saw that by 2030 the world’s material challenges would be well on the way. But then, as he writes, man would for the first time face his most fundamental problem: how to use this freedom from economic concerns, how to use leisure time, what scientific and leisure activities to cultivate – and how to live wisely, sensibly and well. Now that we are standing here, at the entrance to a new ageing period in 2021, we can state that Keynes was getting far on the road right – at least for us in rich countries like Norway. The world economy has grown sharply in the last century, and although there are still too many people in the world living in extreme poverty, growth has led to a sharp increase in living standards for the vast majority, not least here in Norway. It has given us new challenges. We have had new forms of alienation and challenges in how we should use our freedom, and it is all the more fundamental: we are destroying the very basis of our lives, which can remove the welfare growth of many and push the world's most vulnerable people into poverty and distress, especially in poor countries, but also in the Western world. Nevertheless, a fundamental objective of politics and society is that we are constantly getting richer and consuming more. In the national budget, the Solberg government estimates that private consumption in 2022 will increase by a whole of 11 p.p., and the perspective message adds to strong growth in the years to come. If there's ever time to think about what future we're planning for, it's at the beginning of a new magnification period. When I talk to people about what they want more of, more time comes to friends and family high on the list. It also shows surveys. In the last year, Norway has had a well-being based on a material consumption that no other society has ever experienced. We have to take care of this good society, but it does not make sense to base Norway's future on the assumption that our material consumption will continue to grow into heaven – because nature does not have room for it, because it is unsolvable in dealing with people in other parts of the world who also have equal rights to us to improve their standard of living, and because much indicates that there are completely different things than ever growing material consumption that make our lives better and more meaningful to live. That doesn't mean no one should earn more than they do today. The differences in society must be reduced, and those who serve the most must contribute more to the fissure layer. But we also need to put in place a policy that makes it easier and cheaper to repair, borrow, rent, exchange and reuse – not just use and throw – and where we prioritise more time to each other instead of more and more things. Take, for example, the high electricity prices. Those who make the most of the Solberg government's proposal to cut the electricity charge for everyone are the ones who use and waste the most electricity. We in the Green Party believe that instead we have to provide short-term help to those who are hit hardest by the price increase, and then the government has to introduce a two-price system on electricity, where there are far higher charges for unnecessary luxury consumption than for normal, sober consumption. I think most agree that there is and should be a great difference between having a cottage palace that warms up all winter, and that a minimum pensioner should be able to warm up his house. This way we can both take into account that electricity is a necessity, while at the same time making it much more profitable to save electricity. As the Nature Conservation Association together with a number of others said earlier this month: energy saving is the largest power plant we have. The Green Party is therefore promoting proposals today to call on the government to develop a two-price system for electricity and to present a package of measures for energy saving and short-term assistance to those most affected by the price increase, and we hope that broad support for this will be given. Eight years with a Right-led government has given records in new oil licences and new motorways. Large quantities of nature have been mined, and differences have increased. That is why the Green Party voted for a change of government. We want cooperation between the Labour Party, the Environmental Party of the Greens and SV, as we have in several of the big cities, and we made clear demands. After the election, the Workers' Party and the Centre have negotiated a platform for a new government. We in the Green Party have had no role in or influence over this and are therefore – naturally – in opposition to the government. We are going to be constructive and support the proposals that we agree with, and then we will seek cooperation and work for the implementation of our policies. I believe that there are some positive features to track in the new government statement. It is positive that the platform is so clear that the climate should be the framework for all policies and that binding climate budgets with sectoral emission targets should be introduced. This is what the Green Party has been fighting for ever since we entered the Stortinget in 2013, and we have also introduced it as a principle in Oslo and in other municipalities where we are in and out of control. I expect that this will provide the basis for a much better debate in Stortinget on how we are actually going to achieve the goals we have set ourselves, and that it will hold the whole government accountable in a completely different way than we have seen before. Nevertheless, the main problem is that the Hurdal platform, like so many governments before, does not dare to take proper hold of the climate and natural crisis. The government will continue oil policy and motorway policy to Erna Solberg. It will continue to bring short-term interests down to nature, and it is not entirely able to decide whether it is going to be cheaper or more expensive to use a fossil car. Without the will to do what is needed, there is little to help with a climate budget. There are many differences between the Right and the Labour Party, but in terms of climate and nature, Norway’s two largest parties are quite similar. That is why the Green Party has been calling for a green alliance in Norwegian policy for many years, across the right and left axes. Both in this process and in the longer term, we are convinced that such a broad alliance is what we need to bring about really major changes in Norwegian climate and nature policy. We've already seen examples of this in the new magnification. Last week, Red, SV and the Green Party launched a proposal to stop looking for more oil and gas on a Norwegian base. I also hope that the Left and Christian People's Party will join this and help put pressure on the fossils before the important climate summit in Glasgow later this fall. Working for closer cooperation in a green alliance, bringing together parties on both the right and left sides that put climate and nature first, will be an important priority for the Green Party in this process. Finally, I would like to address the proposals of the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9021	Then the representative Lan Marie Nguyen Berg brought up the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9028	In order to succeed in cutting greenhouse gas emissions and achieving fair and inclusive transition to the renewable society, we need to have more thoughts in our head at the same time. The Hurdal platform is clear on developing – not liquidating – the petroleum industry, an industry that provides income, value creation and jobs throughout the country. In the part of the country I represent, any job is crucial and a prerequisite for living a good life in the north. Investors are not in a queue to enter risk capital into the capital-intensive industry. In the north we build a stone on a rock, we don't tear down. Our supplier industry needs predictability, stable framework conditions and enough volume to ensure a continued presence northwards. The representative now said from the pulpit that it was important to do something about the oil and gas policy that has been in place, but the environmental party Greens are calling for is not a response to the challenges of North Norway nor a response to the climate crisis. That is why my question is: how will the Green Party convert green without the revenue generated by the oil and gas industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9038	Thank you very much for an important question. I think it's important now to take over the international changes that happen faster than I think many Norwegian parties have taken over to now. We see that both the UN Secretary-General, not just the Green Party, say that we must stop looking for more oil, coal and gas. We also see that the International Energy Agency calculates that the price of oil in the future will be significantly lower if the world achieves its climate goals. This means that it is now urgent to convert the Norwegian economy to ensure the safe jobs that we need for the future. We have to make sure that we do not become the last seller in the market, and then we have to change to create the new industries and new jobs that we need.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9045	The Hurdal platform is clear that the government will build on the expertise of the oil and gas industry in new industries, and that the income I asked for there will be essential now when investing in renewable industries. We set up an active enterprise policy, where we need to make demands on those who will reap from our natural resources. Norway has enormous opportunities in industries to cut world emissions. We have hydrogen, ocean wind, battery and sustainable mineral extraction, to mention something. But here the state needs to enter more than today to realize this growth potential, and we will depend on a state that has muscles and incomes to do it. How will the Green Party deal with the government of the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9052	As I was also involved in my article, we will seek cooperation, where we can, for a real climate and nature policy. But we also want to be clear about what the limits of what it actually means to implement good climate and nature policies. I think the challenge in Norway over the last 30 years has been that we've been holding on so tightly to the oil that we haven't been able to develop the new green industries that we need. In the election campaign, the Green Party put forward a plan for how to stop looking for oil, continue to harvest the production that we have, will also help us and be the best plan to get into the green shift. But as long as we continue to hesitate on the oil, the area, the competence and the best heads still go to the oil, and that's what I'm worried about, that we can't tear ourselves out, if we can't say now that we're not looking for more oil. I hope that the Prime Minister will be able to bring him to the Glasgow climate summit.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9059	First, I would like to congratulate the representative, Mr Berg, on his place in Stortinget, and the fact that we have the debate from Oslo City Council moved in here will be fun in the years to come. In the next few years, we're going to cut emissions while building green industry and creating new jobs. Then we need strong cooperation with the business community. I feel that the Green Party has a slightly different approach, because it proposes a sharp increase in taxes on business, while at the same time distributing a government job guarantee to 150 000 people who are now working in the oil and gas industry, as the Green Party will put it down within 14 years. My question to the representative Berg is this: if it is so easy through government appropriations to guarantee profitable jobs that finance well-being, the Green Party will also provide government job guarantees to other private sector professionals who experience change, for example. taxi drivers or people in the goods trade, who are also facing a major shift in the next few years?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9068	I think it's important that we take on board how important the oil and gas industry has been to feed Norway, and that's something very special now when we have to go through a transformation where we have to get away from our dependence on oil and gas and all the jobs that exist there, and into something else. I think – and it also shows the time after the 2014 oil price drop – that this change can go much easier than many people see today, that many can get jobs in other industries, and especially if we now dare to bet. But at the same time, we need a system to capture those that might fall outside. That's what we've been talking about in our green business package, and of course it's up to a government to figure it out. I am very pleased that the Hurdal platform is very clear that you want to involve all the social partners to think about how we're going to get through that transition. But I am also very concerned that we need a clear framework for the conversion, because otherwise I am afraid we will not get started.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9075	That's not a complete answer to my question. The environmental party proposed by the Greens is a government job guarantee, and I have no faith in that. I believe that, through good business framework conditions, you can actually get to the green transition, but it doesn't happen through guarantees. Then I can take the Green Party's plan seriously. One of the major measures in that plan is sea wind. On the right, we will invest heavily in sea wind because we need more renewable energy, but also because we can build up green industries and environments of excellence in Norway. The Green Party has decided to build 30 GW sea wind by 2030. That means we have to build, operate, move a new wind turbine every day from January 2022. Then we don't have time to make impact assessments and take care of natural values, and secondly, there won't be jobs in Norway, for foreign companies and shipyards need to be collected if we're to achieve what's quite undiscovered goals. My question to the Green Party is: how to guarantee state jobs when foreign companies and shipyards have to enter, because the Green Party does not have contact with industry and achieves quite undiscovered objectives?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9084	I think the time is also in order to have great visions of what we're going to live on after the oil, and sea wind is one of the industries we want to have a clear commitment to. Yeah, that's an ambitious bet, but I don't think at all it's important to get the pace up now. It will also be able to create jobs in Norway. The supplier industry will be able to deliver sea wind to sea wind platforms instead of to oil platforms. I don't want to stand here and shoot just how it's going to turn out in terms of foreign yards, but it's essential that we now manage to get a solution for the time after the oil, and then, among other things, will. also sea wind is part of it. At the same time, there are other things we have to do. In Oslo, we have had great success using our purchasing strategy actively, and I also see that the new government wants to do so. I hope that it will be powerful enough for us to also make a change, for example. in the transport sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9091	The challenge is that if the Green Party is to adopt a credible approach to such a major transformation as Norway is to undergo, the policy, the context of industrial policy and climate policy must be coherent. As far as 30 GW sea wind is concerned, this means that in nine years the United Kingdom has built twice as much as it has built in 18 years. That means you can't have really good impact assessments of natural values. This means that there is no capacity in the Norwegian supplier industry. If there are examples of shipyards that can set up so much, please do so, but there is no capacity in the Norwegian supplier industry to deliver. We must have a credible approach if we are to build up and convert the Norwegian economy. Bringing government-guaranteed jobs to 150 000 people, and not having measures to achieve it, I think it's a little serious if we're going to achieve the climate goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9096	The Green Party believes that what is unambitious is to continue to invest in Norwegian oil and gas when we know that the world has found too much, when we know that we produce much more than we can within climate targets, when we know that the IEA calculates the price of oil at a level that will make very many of the investments in Norway unprofitable. I don't think that's ambitious. What we need now in the future are parties who want to pursue an active industrial policy to provide the new industries, but who also dare to put a dot and start at the end of Norwegian oil and gas, which have served us well, but which will not necessarily be able to do so in the future when the world changes. We have to take that into account, and then both parties like the Right and other parties in this room should take on the fact that the climate crisis will also lead to a fall in the oil price.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9103	Fortunately, Norway has been given a new government, and the government platform clearly states that a more restrictive predatory policy should now be pursued. It is imperative that those living near the predators be listened to. For example, the wolf population has been too high in recent years. It has a major impact on the communities affected. For example: The rendalen was about 50 sheep farms in the 1990s with outback pastures in that municipality. Now there's three left. Until next year there might be two left. The Green Party writes in its work programme that over the next four years they want to close the stock target for wolves. Does the Greens understand the impact this would have on the communities affected?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9112	I am very concerned about the further deterioration of what was already an irresponsible wolf policy by the Big Government. We know that the wolf is threatened, and that we also need to maintain and increase the wolf population in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9118	When the Green Party has the floor, there will be a lot of ideological skyscrapers. There are bans, bans and bans and resistance to economic growth. There's a lot coming up that's little thoughtful. I see, among other things: the Environment Party of the Greens calls for the introduction of a compulsory parking fee for municipalities and employers on their own private grounds. The background is, of course, the Environmental Party of Greens' workable fight against District Norway, against the car, and I know that the Greens' Environment Party really wants a ban on both malls and cars, and in that way solve the whole parking problem. It is without taking into account the differences in Norway – outside Oslo, where you do not have the alternatives to a car, do not have a collective offer that is good enough, and where not everyone can bike to the job or go to make the purchase. Why will the Green Party take away the possibility of developing its own municipality for the benefit of its own citizens?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9125	For 30 years, Norwegian politicians have been talking about the climate crisis as the most important thing of our time, but basically we haven't been able to cut our emissions. The Green Party is clear about what is needed to cut emissions. The problem has been for many years that you have not been willing to actually do the big grips that need to be done. What we have proposed include: that municipalities are given the opportunity to charge private charges for parking in the workplace. These include: because very many people drive to work, for example. Here in Oslo, where it is also a good collective offer, because they get free parking in the workplace. However, it must be up to each municipality to introduce the climate measures that will be good for its municipality. What I am concerned about is that we should continue to talk about climate policy as the most important thing of our time without actually wanting to implement the measures that are needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9132	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9137	Let me first congratulate the Prime Minister, the Workers' Party and the Centre on having formed a new government and with a new government platform. Although much is unclear and expensive, and even if something is such that it simply takes Norway in the wrong direction, I will give the government a reward for several good and necessary steps taken on the platform. These are measures that the Christian People's Party, as a centre party, can support. We agree on the direction of district policy, for example. that government employees can work in the districts, and that adapted housing is provided for older people in the districts, so that older people can live longer at home. Both parts were also the initiative of the previous government. We agree that this is a trick. The Christian People's Party also agrees with the direction of agricultural policy, with the sealing of the income gap and the organization of a living agriculture with small and large uses throughout the country, as was the Christian People's Party's priority when we were in government. The Christian People's Party is also very pleased that the government maintains Sunday as a different day and adds to a solidarity of alcohol policy. Furthermore, the government has put work to everyone as job number one. We agree, and together with the Storting and the social partners, we delivered this to the government. The Norwegian economy is out of crisis, and unemployment has fallen faster now than in both the banking crisis and the financial crisis. It's joyous and means an incredible amount to people – or ‘usual people’, as it is now called. The government is to ‘move power to ordinary people in all areas of society’, it is called in the Hurdal platform. It is well and good, but there is something basic that is missing in the follow-up, because in several areas the government platform is saturated with scepticism to allow ordinary people to decide for themselves. We see it more clearly in family policy. The Prime Minister's party opted to remove a welfare scheme for families, namely cash support. Fortunately, they were unable to do so fully, but we see once again that as soon as the Workers' Party and the Centre join the government and gain power, the down-priority of the cash support, which is the family's freedom of choice, starts. Reducing the cash support and replacing it with a waiting aid sends a signal to young children’s parents that kindergarten is the only right option. Freedom of choice is under attack. For the Christian People's Party, the goal is not to have as many parents as possible avail themselves of the cash support. The aim is for parents to have choice. The families must be supported, not controlled. They need to be fenced around, not herded with. The family perspective also shines with its absence in the government's platform. There is nothing to say about child welfare, leisure cards, the development of multiple kindergartens, flexible parental leave or the role of the family as a community. The family will only be a means of achieving other goals, such as equality and the working line. Here, the Hurdal platform takes Norway in the wrong direction. Christian People's Party is a Christian Democratic Center Party. We believe that society is best built from below. That work starts in the family. Safe caregivers and a good upbringing are something the kids take with them their whole lives. We have confidence that families can choose what is best for themselves. Yes, we must move power to ordinary people. The government's fear that ordinary people will choose also shines through in the field of education. Human rights protect the right of parents to choose alternative training for their children. The new government, on the other hand, wants the parental right to depend on the municipality in which you live. It's undermining the colleges as a supplement to the public school. It undermines the choice of parents and the diversity of the sector. The Christian People's Party will ensure this diversity. We want to guarantee parental rights, and we want to ensure a financial framework for the high schools that makes it a real alternative, regardless of people's wallet. In voluntary policy, there are many good estimates in the government platform – that is good. But when we come to the religious communities, words are replaced. Words such as ‘trust’ and ‘freedom’ are replaced by words such as ‘control’ and ‘control’. State support goes from being a support to a religious community and to a view of life because they have a self-value, to becoming a tool for government governance, control and transparency. The majority of the action points are about making demands on the religious communities. Freedom of faith is a fundamental pillar of our democracy. Our task as politicians is to guarantee people a fundamental right to freedom of belief and freedom of thought. The fact that belief and life-view societies are to be allowed to govern themselves as much as possible is important. They must not be treated as a tool for politicians in order to achieve their own objectives. The government is now tightening the screw for the religious communities, and freedom of belief is weakening. Even when we get older, we're going to be the boss of our own lives. Freedom of choice is important in this phase of life. If there is a need for both healthcare and day-to-day care, it shall be safe to receive good health care assistance. There is still a lot to go on in Norway today. For others, relatives may be important helpers in parts of life. Family care and care contribute to safety, activity and meaningful days. It cannot be counted in hours, crowns and ears, but it can still be recognised and valued to a greater extent than today. The Christian People's Party has proposed a relative's support. In the government's platform, there's little innovation in this field. We would have needed that. The needs of elderly care will increase sharply in the future. There is no sign that the government has a plan to meet these needs. For a Christian Democratic Party, responsibility for managing the climate, nature and environment in a good way will always be fundamental. Dealing with the climate crisis is absolutely crucial, and it is absolutely essential that we manage to resolve this jointly. We know the issues, and now it's about acting purposefully and systematically. Perhaps those who have contaminated at least pay the largest bill – those who have not contaminated, have no funds and have no ability to pay out of it, either have an oil fund. I am proud that we in the government have delivered that we should have a responsibility internationally. We have set up a climate fund to ensure the development of clean energy also to countries that do not have the opportunity to do so themselves. But then it's important that the government not send the bill to fight the emissions challenges of the world's poor. The money to finance climate action in countries that do not have money for themselves must not be taken from school for girls in vulnerable areas or from child vaccination in sub-Saharan Africa. No, that money has to be added to the aid rate. Once again, I congratulate the Prime Minister and the new government and wish them every success in their mission. I also know what it's like to sit in a minority government. There will be internal battles and battles in Stortinget. I will promise that the Christian People's Party will be constructive and clear as an opposition party – vote for what we are for and against what we are against.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9177	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9182	First, I would like to congratulate the representative, Mr Bollestad, as the parliamentary leader. The Christian People's Party programme says that the Christian People's Party wants to ‘replace today’s abortion law with a law that establishes that the foetus has human dignity, that is better adapted to the development of medical technology and that takes into account the value and right to life of the foetus and the necessary care for the safety and health of the woman in an ethically sound manner.’;» What I then wonder about is whether the representative Bollestad is against today's abortion law, where women have self-determined right up to week 12 and up to week 18 by examination.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9194	It is quite right, as the representative says, that the Christian People's Party has a different view of the issue of abortion in its programme. We also want to investigate the legal protection of the child before week 12. But then it is that the Christian People's Party is fully aware of what the majority in this Chamber means. That means that during this period we will focus on keeping today's abortion law with self-determination to week 12. We want the denominators, in a form that helps women and at the same time preserves the legal protection of the child – that is, the aim of the denominators, that they should respect the women and the legal protection of the child – and we do not want to extend the abortion law, as is the case both in the Labour Party and in other parties on the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9199	I record that the representative does not respond fully to what I am asking. The representative talked a lot about freedom of choice for families and how important that freedom is. This is a freedom that women have fought in Norway over a number of years, including the right to self-determined abortion and the right to control their own bodies. Does the representative support today's abortion permit or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9206	I, as a KRF, am on the Christian People's Party programme, but the Christian People's Party is committed to reaching out in politics. That means results. When the political situation is that it's about extending today's abortion law, the Christian People's Party does not want it, and therefore we will stand on today's abortion law and fight against enlargement. At the same time, I want to say that the abortion law is about more than the woman. The abortion law is also about increasing legal protection for the child from week 12. The Christian People's Party asks, is it possible to create a legal protection before week 12? In today's abortion law there is an increasing legal protection as the weeks of pregnancy go by. So there are two reasons for taking part in Norwegian abortion law: one is the woman, who, of course, needs to be cared for in a good, professional and caring way. The second is that we also have to take care of the fetus.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9213	Let me also begin by congratulating the representative, Mr Bollestad, as a parliamentary leader. The Christian People's Party government was part of, carried out a series of reforms in the public sector. A common feature for several of them has been the focus on structure, and unfortunately the result has been a very high degree of centralisation, which has caused great anxiety and dissatisfaction in many communities in this country. Now the Christian People's Party is out of government and has a much freer position. The new government is bringing about a trust reform. The focus is on the content of the service, rather than on the structure, to give them time and confidence to provide users with better services and to promote the first line and the role of the teacher, nurse and police officer, so that more time can be spent on service and less on reporting. My question is: In view of the Christian People's Party's new role, is this a development of the public sector and a reform to which the Christian People's Party can subscribe?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9222	Trust is one of the words that is equal to both ways, no matter how we read it. Trust depends on society, we depend on it in our systems, and we depend on it in our services – trust from state, municipal and county authorities to the individual jobs to do the service for us. But there's also another thing that I'm busy with, and that Christian People's Party is busy with, and that's the quality of the services. We're concerned that things are going forward, that new opportunities of new knowledge make things go forward. It is not that everything was better before, but I am concerned that those who work in these services should be involved and develop them in such a way that we always have the best services in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9230	The center party is occupied by services near people, and good services near people. We don't see as clearly the contradiction that Bollestad draws between quality and services close to people. But I want to ask even clearer: when it comes to the centralisation policy that has been pursued and that has just resulted in greater distances, that services are not equally close to people, does Bollestad see that it has been an unfortunate development in more areas, and is Bollestad and the Christian People's Party willing to look at other ways of developing the public sector than that kind of structural change?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9235	The Christian People's Party is also concerned with services near people, but the Christian People's Party also takes on the fact that there are structural changes in the housing pattern that do not govern the state, where one – unfortunately, I would say – gets fewer who live in District Norway, and people move centrally. It's not just about services, but it's a trend we see all over Europe, yes, all over the world. That's why it's important for me to have services that are qualitatively good close to people, but that also have such a large quantity that the quality gets good. It is not useful to have services that are not good enough for people living in the districts. Take, for example: Emergency medicine: where you are far from, you may need a greater level of competence to be able to get to the hospital in time when you need it most.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9240	The Christian People's Party wants to present itself as a party to the weakest in society, but in our vote they voted against increasing the minimum pension above the EU's poverty line, and in the state budget of the year, which is the last Christian People's Party, they propose to increase the taxes on petrol and diesel, which affects those who cannot afford to buy a new car and who are therefore penalised extra hard. Perhaps even worse, the Christian People's Party is proposing that the excess/free card limit for medicines and healthcare be increased by over 450 kroner, to over 2900 kroner. This is something that affects many sick people and people with poor advice. I do not understand how the Christian People's Party and the representative of Bollestad can defend this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9247	Now it is that the Advance Party has been in government for many of the years that the Christian People's Party has not been in government. I would like to remind the representative that the minimum pension up to several times was increased by the Christian People's Party when the government negotiated in Stortinget. So the Christian People's Party has been involved in negotiating the minimum pension by thousands over the last few years. In the case of petrol and diesel taxes, we must have two tanks in our head at once. The biggest challenge for those who are the weakest – and it may not be those who live in this country, but people who pay the price for releasing greenhouse gases and who have neither a car nor a bike – is that they actually pay a high price, because they don't even grow their food because the climate emissions in the Western world are so big. That is why the Christian People's Party has taken that responsibility in terms of climate emissions and taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9254	I would also like to congratulate the representative of the Christian People's Party (Christian People's Party) on his role as a parliamentary leader. I share the Christian People's Party and Bollestad's great commitment to agriculture. Food security and future agricultural production are a political responsibility first. So the question is, we're facing a disengagement requirement. Milk production is the farm of rural agriculture. How will the Christian People's Party contribute to the fulfilment of the detachment requirement without the need for small and medium-sized applications to grow far beyond the ground for land and operation?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9261	Thank you for a very pleasant question. We share the food safety exposure with the representative. I also share the view that we should ensure small and medium-sized applications. We have also done so in the years in which my party has been in the Ministry of Agriculture. We have prioritised the largest amount of money for investment in the smallest and medium-sized uses, just to achieve that goal, in order to use the resources in our country. It's also about smaller use where there might be a break, just to maintain food production across the country. We will continue to do that, because we believe that that requirement should also be met by small and medium-sized applications without having to increase either the area or the quota to serve the loans they actually have to raise.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9268	I would also like to congratulate the representative on his work and look forward to good cooperation at Stortinget in the future. I would like to thank you for an inspiring speech that developed the international perspective and international solidarity in particular, in particular the prospect that climate aid should be added to normal assistance and not replaced. We in the Green Party are also concerned about a trend we see in many countries and areas, with an increasing degree of vaccine nationalism, where we do not see the important perspective of international solidarity here as well. We believe that no one is safe until everyone is safe and that international solidarity is our best protection. With the Christian People's Party's perspective on international solidarity, how will the representative see that Norway can contribute more to securing vaccines for all people around the world, and that we are not just trying to divide the Norwegian population first?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9279	The international perspective is extremely important, not least in a pandemic, but I think it is important no matter what policy area we have. That day a country becomes itself enough, we become a poor people. With regard to the vaccination itself, we have had a Council of State from the Christian People's Party that has worked intensively to secure vaccines for several countries. We know that if we can't inoculate in those countries that can't afford vaccines themselves, the virus mutates, and it goes fast. That means that there's both help for those who need it, and it's help for self-help for us who've also received the vaccine, because we don't have to get mutated viruses to our own country. It also means that we need to spend less resources on our own health care and can contribute to other health care groups that need this most. This is a good and wise priority and a proper assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9286	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9291	There's always something special and solemn about the first debate in a new magnification period, and it's extra solemn when it's government change. I have been allowed to join it three times: in 2005, in 2013 and in 2021. And then you say, what's so special about it? Well, one of the finest things about the Norwegian governance tradition is how this happens. When I was about to leave and was thrown off as Minister of Agriculture and Food, I was standing there in my office, and a person who had called the Norwegian agricultural system a communist power station came in. It was Sylvi Listhaug. But then you do it nice and gentle and hand over the key – it happens as peaceful as it is. This time, when I was to be allowed to become the Council of State again, I would get the key from one I have criticized day out and day in, Jan Tore Sanner. Then I came into the office, it was nice and gentle, and he handed over the key with a little fun – but it's legal – and really wanted happiness on the road. One of the finest things is that the very last thing the outgoing government does is to appoint the inward. We take it for granted, but it's a fantastic quality with our political system that we do it that way. Everyone wants it to go peacefully even if we have disagreements. And it goes peacefully. When we see how many other democracies are now under pressure, we need 169 who have been elected – some of us have gone out and become state councils – to call about the basic value we have in Norwegian democracy: trust and fellowship, and that we are the servants of the people, not the lords of the people. So I'm going to admit that it's a little more polite after choice when it's done well, I've tried both. It's a little more fun for those who go into the offices than for those who go out of the offices. When we left the offices in 2013, we had 10 representatives. When we go into the offices now, we have 28. So it's a little bit better feeling, it's supposed to be said. What's so nice about the debate today is that we've got a hoardal platform, and then we've got the government we've wanted in the Central Party for many years, a government out of the Center Party and the Workers' Party, or the Workers' Party-Center Party government, as it's now called. Looking at the platform, we believe that we have received many good solutions, and I want to go through some of them. In the last eight years there has been a discussion about the Storting to force through its will if there is local strong resistance. The previous majority chose it, for example: with Viken, Troms and Finnmark and other types of coercive mergers. Now that time has passed, now it's going to be a government that listens, and if you locally want to continue as a municipality, you have to go on like that. We have also said in the government platform that we should help resolve those who want to be dissolved after coercion. That's a completely different attitude. And we're going to stop punishing those who didn't merge, to whom the income system has put up after the Right and the Advance Party left their template – a big victory, a big change. Although the income system may work technically, there is much to be said. In electricity policy, there is a completely different attitude. When the Progress Party went into the government, they said they were tired of low power prices. They wanted to increase the value of Norwegian power, wanted a higher electricity price. This has been achieved by the Progress Party, while, when we go into government, we have said quite the opposite: we want to pursue a policy to have a low Norwegian electricity price, build a new Norwegian industry and help Norwegian households. We have also signaled that we want to have a lower level of fees on the most basic goods, which means that those with lower and middle incomes should not be punished, but get help. We have been committed to introducing our own primary school grant to ensure that it can also be a school in small places, and that the basic public services should be close to where you live, whether you live in a small or a large place — a major change from the previous government. We've said that we want to use higher education to build the country, we have a completely different attitude. It's not just the higher education institutions themselves who are going to think it out, but we, as community builders, are going to think about how to manage to use higher education to build local communities and get the educated people we need, for example. on Nesna. We are clear that we want to strengthen local preparedness within both the police and the ambulance. Perhaps one of the strongest symbols is food preparedness and the victories you saw in Kristiansund. At the bottom is a completely different idea of distribution: that we want a country with less social and geographical differences, and that we want to use tax policy to balance differences between people, not to reinforce differences between people. We want to organise the public sector so that it is good if you live in Oslo, but it should also be good if you live in Vadsø. We've got a government for ordinary people all over Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9314	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9320	There is absolute reason to congratulate the Swedish National Council for the violence against Vedum, both in terms of the results of the elections and in terms of its new role. So to the question, with current electricity prices, many people are worried. I don't want to be a power pricing populist, I understand that prices can vary for different reasons, and it's a little poor comfort that they can be balanced over time. The Hurdal platform says that the government will introduce a new system of evener network rental, which I must assume is different from the balancing mechanism we already have. Balancing can often mean that for someone to pay less, someone has to pay more. Even though I'm from Oslo, I have to admit that I'm not for people in Tromsø to pay more for less. The question then is, is there anyone with the new balancing mechanism who has to pay more, or can the Minister of Finance now guarantee that this scheme will not lead to that?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9327	When the Right Party and the Advance Party took up the government offices in 2013, they deliberately chose to weaken the balancing mechanisms we had for grid rental. The centre party and the Workers' Party have been concerned that no one should get too much bill, and what we see in how the costs of network rental are now distributed is that someone gets too high a cost on the network rental itself, in addition to the usual spot price on electricity, which is the most debated right now. That's what we want to tackle, and that's what we signal on the Hurdal platform. Then we will come back to Stortinget with suggestions on how it can be done, but the goal is to help those who have the most, the very highest costs of web rental today. It was better arrangements before, but the Right and Advance Party chose to weaken them when they had government power.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9334	Thanks for the answer. It sounds as if someone has to pay more than today. We're going outside. In order to ensure a level playing field for Norwegian companies in Norway, the country in which we are so happy, the government of Solberg is actively working to limit profits and tax planning in multinational companies and was also an active driver of a new international taxation system adapted to the globalised and digitised society in which we live. Norway has therefore joined the historic agreement between now 134 of 140 OECD member countries on a common commitment framework for this very thing, but this agreement requires that countries not introduce unilateral, self-tax measures, because it undermines this important work. Therefore, I am somewhat concerned that the Hurdal platform says that the government is just going to charge a one-sided turnover tax on digital businesses. Is there any reason to worry that the government is going to undermine the important work of getting a common framework for international taxation that protects Norwegian companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9341	Not to be disrespectful to the representative, but I don't think she quite heard what I said in the first place, because I didn't say anything about someone who would get higher costs over the web rental, I said the opposite, that we should help those who have the highest bills. The last time we did that, it was through state budget grant schemes. That's the way we did it last time. Then we're going to discuss, along with the Storting, because we're a minority government, how we're going to get it now, but we don't want anyone to get too big a bill, and that's a good point of view that both the Center Party and the Workers' Party are behind. I also hope more people in Stortingen are going to do that. In terms of how we can get to tax, for example. large network providers and others in the Norwegian market have signalled more grips on the government platform, but it needs to be thoroughly reworked. We are going to make proposals, and the aim is for actors who are currently active in Norway but who are not actually paying taxes to pay taxes in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9348	Let me begin by congratulating the Minister of Finance, Slagsvold Vedum. There are great expectations for the Council of State, both from the peoples of most and from the Party of Advancement. He's definitely a similar guy, with an incredible laugh, but now it's getting serious. Ordinary people are now becoming seriously concerned about their private economy. Increased food prices, increased interest rates, increased electricity prices – it is good to signal today that you are doing something about housing support, but fortunately the few in Norway are receiving it – and sky-high diesel and petrol taxes. We saw in the election campaign that the Center Party put an ultimatum. We have not received an answer here today either from the Workers' Party or from the Centre Party, and therefore there is reason to ask the Minister of Finance whether he can guarantee that the taxes on petrol and diesel will not go up, and that the Minister of Climate and Environment will lose that fight in the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9355	In 2013, when Sylvi Listhaug entered the government together with the Advance Party, the Progress Party had more clear goals. One was to remove the toll. There's never been a higher toll collection than last year, so you couldn't. Another was what I mentioned instead, from Tord Lien as an oil and energy minister, who said that he was tired of low electricity prices, and that the value of the hydropower would rise. At least this has been done by the Progress Party. In this area, when it comes to increasing the electricity prices to people, the Progress Party has achieved its full goal, and it was one of the Memorandums of Understanding of the former State Council, Tord Lien. And the electricity charge has never been increased as much as under the finance minister of the Progress Party. With a new government, we have a clear goal: we want to reduce electricity charges, precisely because we see that it hits people hard. We also have a goal – we don't say it's easy, but we have it as a goal – that we should steer the power policy in a way that makes it possible to mitigate the power price, not increase the power price, as the Progress Party did when they were responsible for Norwegian power policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9362	We have the phase of the involvement of the Progress Party in this, and that is a reduction in taxes and charges in total by approx. 37 B.C.E. kr. The fees have also gone a little less after the last budgetary comparisons. Then I understand that it is very polite for the Battle of Vedum to talk about the Progress Party, but I don't think those who are at home in the living room now and are afraid of the bills that are going to get their way seem to be particularly comforting that the Minister of Finance is concerned about the Progress Party. What they want answers to is what you want to do to bring down the power prices, and not just for those who receive housing support. You want answers as to whether the Senterpartiet will follow up the guarantee given in the election campaign, that the diesel and petrol fees will not be raised, but at least at the present level. The Minister for Climate and Environment has said the opposite. Nobody here can solve it, and I hope now that the Minister of Finance can be clear and guarantee that the fees will not go up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9369	We in the Center Party and the Workers' Party are quite clear in the Hurdal platform. What we want in terms of power, to take it as point number. 1? There are different formulations, we want different political approaches to mitigate the growth of the electricity price, among other things. We announce that we will say no to all new inter-national connections. Interestingly, when the Progress Party had power, the law was changed so that it would be easier to build cross-border connections. There are two different policies. We're saying that we want to expand more renewable power. We warn that we want to use the electricity charge to reduce the tax pressure on the use of electricity. And in terms of the distribution effect otherwise in our arrangement, we say that people who earn less than NOK 750,000 will get lower taxes, not higher taxes, that commuters will get more deductions, not less deductions, as they received under the previous government. We also say that we want to have lower fuel taxes, as it says in the platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9374	I noticed that the Council of State stated that this government does not want the state to force through its will where there is local resistance. For my part, I would like it to also apply to Oslo and Ullevål hospitals, but it is a different theme. In the Hurdal platform, the government determines that it will pursue an economic policy that reduces the economic and social disparities in society, but the measures in the platform are not in line with that objective. The abolition of inheritance taxes by the Solberg government and the reduction of property and corporate taxes have dramatically increased the wealth gap in Norway. The wealthiest pay a much smaller proportion of taxes now than ordinary people, and the solution here is quite clear: we have to put the big tax holes in the exemption method in the taxation of property and heritage. Unfortunately, flaking the wealth tax does nothing about this big challenge. Will the Minister of Finance propose changes to the tax system to ensure that the richest pay a greater share of taxes than ordinary people?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9383	I feel that over time – with both Kari Elisabeth Kaski and party leader Audun Lysbakken – we have had a common goal of using the tax system to balance differences, not to reinforce differences. And then the different parties probably have slightly different approaches that you think are right and not right, but the goal is equal to. Some of the quality with Norway is that there is a country with small differences. I also feel that SV has had the same concern as the Workers' Party and the Centre's party for increasing wage differences in society. We believe that if over time there are too many differences between people, both geographically – which I talked about a lot in my post instead – and socially, it creates less trust. We'll have to sit down and discuss which grip is best. All the grips also have a cost side, and then we have to find the balance that enables us to pursue a policy that reduces the social and geographical differences and develops all parts of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9392	Thanks for the answer. The advantage of very many of these proposals is that they do not have a cost side, but they have a significant income side. If we actually reach the goal of reducing the economic differences in Norway and ensure that the country's richest people pay the same share of their income in taxes as ordinary people do, which should be a matter of course to be able to establish that a wish, we will also increase the space for action that we have in common, to, for example, to promote well-being throughout the country. And then the government also decides on the platform that you want to report on inequalities and inequality developments. My question, then, is whether this annual report on inequality will relate to the state budget and also be committed to the state budget in the same way as the government proposes that the climate budget should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9400	Let there be no doubt: with regard to the tax profile of a government stemming from the Central Party and the Workers' Party, it will be such that those who earn less than NOK 750000 will receive less tax burden. That's the one goal. Those who make over 750,000 dollars are going to get more taxes. Those who have the best back should wear a little bit more of the racks, and then we should help those who have a little bit bigger challenges. That's the profile we want, and then we have to discuss with SV how we can get to it in the best possible way. So I'd just like to say that increasing taxes has a cost. It could be that if you increase a tax, even for those who have a high income, it might have an expense based on what you invest in, where you put the money. We need private business, we need activity. That's why we have to consider what gives the most effect. How we're going to report on inequality, we're going to get back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9409	Let me start by congratulating Minister of Finance Slagsvold Vedum on his new job and not least on his new, great office in the centre of Oslo, the environment of the bureaucrats, and I know from secure sources that up to several people who use both love bicycles for work, a vegetarian food and have milk in their coffee shop. I just hope that the Minister of Finance thought these were nice people, yes, maybe they're even common. But I have a congratulations, and it's for one of the important breakthroughs the Centre Party has got on this platform, namely that the government is going to work out different ways to cancel the EEA Agreement. One will probably not look at our closest neighbouring countries, Sweden, Denmark and Finland, and how they have chosen to take care of themselves, but one will look at other countries – we will assume Switzerland, Ukraine, the United Kingdom. So the question is simply whether the Minister of Finance has a preliminary favorite. He has previously pointed to the United Kingdom’s exit from the EU as an inspiration for Norway. Now the store shelves are empty, a missing driver, and the military are ordered out to make sure people get enough food. Is he still inspired?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9416	With the representative Rotevatn, it's kind of a selective memory. Taking the United Kingdom as an example, I believe that the representative Rotevatn is aware that the United Kingdom was an EU member and that, unlike Norway, they entered the EU at the beginning of the 1970s, while the Norwegian people said no. I am very pleased that the Norwegian people in the early 1970s said no to join the European Union and also said no in 1994. So we're in a completely different position. In the case of a government to see what opportunities we have – it should be obvious that you have a review, now it is approx. every ten years. How can our relationship with Europe be best organised? What are strengths, what are weaknesses? How can we strengthen Norwegian positions? How can we get even more jobs, more value creation and take care of the national sovereignty guaranteed by the Norwegian people through two referendums? Unfortunately, the Left has now gone away from its no-position and become a yes-party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9423	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9428	The elections gave a clear mandate for a political shift. The election also gave a clear mandate for a new policy course for the country, a stronger welfare state, active business policy and fair climate policy. Norway is facing formidable challenges. We're going to create a lot of new jobs and activity across the country, we're going to cut emissions by 55 pst. By 2030, and we have to increase exports. Then we have to call about what makes Norway work. The Norwegian model of close tripartite cooperation and a strong welfare state has given Norwegian industry increased productivity and a unique international competitive advantage. Therefore, it is essential that we strengthen, not weaken, this model in the future. The decade we go into now, will define whether we succeed. Now it's the responsibility of the Storting to launch a new course and policy to secure future jobs across the country and to finance the welfare state, while cutting emissions. Through a new green industrial offensive, Norway can create jobs, secure the welfare of the future and help cut world emissions. Then we need a more active business policy. Many of the world’s leading industrial environments are found in Norway. They are created through an interaction between an active country and business. Even I come from a proud industrial group, Buskerud, where we, among other things, has the Kongsberg industry, which is the result of this interaction. Industries like oil, gas and offshore are ready to use the expertise and technology to build the green industry that cuts emissions and creates tomorrow's jobs. Now they have a new government that is willing to use state ownership and capital to develop new green value chains and increase exports. For these key industrial environments, the requirement has not been cut in taxes on wealth or business neutrality. They're calling for an active state. Finally, they are given a new government that will play on a team – a government that sees Norwegian natural resources need to be used to create values and jobs across the country. Resources belonging to the community shall benefit the people and have greater local ringing effects. We have to put an end to the fact that too much fish or timber are being sent unprocessed out of the country, so that large opportunities for value creation and local jobs are lost. A more active state shall contribute to this change. The travel life has really been bleeding under the pandemic. In the tourism industry, there are fantastic opportunities to create year-round activity and jobs throughout the country. The government has great ambitions on behalf of travel life. I myself am a trained radiographer and have had the pleasure of working in health care. Digital solutions and technologies are an important part of the welfare offer. In Norway, the public sector will invest heavily in the future. Foreign giant companies look at Norway as an attractive country as a result of these investments. If we are to prevent value creation and jobs associated with this from disappearing from the country, we need to take political action now to strengthen digital competences in Norway. The public sector must become a strategic partner for the Norwegian supplier industry. In Norway, we're going to expand the mains, electrify the socket, and we're going to expand the sea wind. This will require large public investment in infrastructure. Now we've got a new government that will use the public purchasing power to build up Norwegian business and Norwegian jobs, and it's time. This purchasing power must also be used to ensure Norwegian wage and working conditions and to help increase the level of organisation and combat actors who will undermine the Norwegian model and tripartite cooperation. The pandemic has also reminded us of the importance of self-sufficiency, preparedness and vulnerability. The government has a clear ambition to bet on the local farmer, not only with clapping on the shoulder, but by doing something about the income gap. To Nortura, I also want to say that a decentralised food industry is necessary and important. That need has strengthened the pandemic. We have to stop centralisation in agriculture. I look forward to cooperation with the government and cooperation in the Business Committee. The economy depends on the public sector in order to obtain the necessary skills, labour and welfare, and the public sector depends on a diverse business life that creates values and jobs throughout the country. In Norway, we have all the prerequisites for success. Then we need an active business policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9451	Work is the most important welfare policy we have. The last year and a half, there are many more than those who might have noticed that they could end up in such a situation, who have experienced what it means no longer to have a job to go to every day. Having a job is, of course, the best way to support yourself and their own, but work is also more than just an income. Work is the sense of being useful. It's the feeling that someone's asking you, and that what you can, is worth something to others as well. We're going to be glad that employment is now increasing, that unemployment, after all, has fallen very quickly after the pandemic dropped the hardest grip on our society, but still there are too many people standing without a job. Therefore, we also need to make sure that many of the tools needed to ensure that more people can come from outside and into both work and education. The biggest difference in Norway is simply between those in work and those who are not in work. Although, of course, we are going to take action to ensure that unemployment goes down and more jobs are created, there are also a lot of people who stood out of work before the pandemic hit, and who may even experience being pushed even further back in line after it arrived. There is a reason why the Right will continue and continue to talk about a knowledge school, a school that will ensure that more students complete and pass, get a diploma or a letter in hand, simply because it is the most important ticket in the future. Then one must also make sure that we have free core time in kindergarten for the smallest children and that we put up early efforts. I'm proud that we've provided 4,500 more skilled teachers in school, and that many of them have been deployed in the first few years. We must continue to have qualifications for those who are going to teach our children, because what they can do is the most important factor for what students learn. But even when we're really going to be brave and promise that by 2030 nine out of ten will complete high school, there's one in ten left. There is one in ten who also with such a hairy measure does not have a diploma or a diploma. That is why we must also have measures and packages for them. For example, the right has launched the proposal to offer educational positions, the opportunity to stand in the job, but also with a clear agreement with the employer on the skills to obtain that letter, perhaps in a slightly different way from what it is put up for at school. We also know that one of the main causes of many falling out of work is mental health, i.e. coping with mental illness or addiction. I have to say that I am seriously concerned that, after all, we have a government that now says that it should remove free treatment choices for those who are struggling with these disorders, deprive them of the option to choose the treatment that suits them best, regardless of who offers it. I think it's a pity, although it wasn't surprising, that this government also clearly says no to a drug reform that says that young people like, for example, have come a little on the slope, and who may even be using alcohol to deal with the challenges they face, continue to face fines and penalties, not with help. That is why we also need to make sure that we make demands on people in employment policy. Therefore, we must continue to have an activity obligation for young social assistance recipients, but we must also be able to combine benefits in such a way that they are better suited to users in terms of how they get to work. That's how you got e.g. individual job support, which helps those who are struggling with mental illness to get into a job. That's how you've got a #syktbra job, which is an attempt in Nav that just makes sure to figure out what it is you can actually do, what jobs you actually like, and then you work a lot to find that particular job. That's why we use wage subsidies to compensate, so that several of the outsiders get the opportunity to show up in the workplace. One of the main groups to help us get to work is immigrants coming to Norway. It is a fact that of the children who grow up in low-income families, the large majority of the growth children have parents with a non-Western background. It's not an excuse, but it's a very important explanation, because then we also know how to deal with it. A new government that has just joined will, of course, also have time to promote its proposals, budgets, show the cards much more than just a statement that we are discussing today. But I can promise that the Right won't stop talking about knowledge in school and grabbing for more people to get into our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9470	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9475	I would like to begin by congratulating the representative Asheim with an important role on the Stortinget in an important field for which we have a common commitment, and also thanking the representative for his efforts through the pandemic, for the students and the higher education sector. We have had points of disagreement, but the effort has not been made. We're back to everyday life in Stortinget, and we could read in the VG today from the Right Leader about three different points that you were going to challenge the new government. One of the points was to see the relationship between business policy and climate change. I very much agree with that, so I got a little lifted up, but then I found out that industrial policy and climate here meant cut in the wealth tax and climate. My question is about the official position of the Right is that cut-offs in the property tax lead to cut-offs in greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9482	This is the day of congratulations, so I must also be allowed to congratulate the representative on a very important role as chairman of the Financial Committee. It's a role I've been allowed to hold myself, and it's both demanding and not least funny. I think it's extra demanding when you're the leader of the largest party in a minority government. There's a common destiny, so we can talk about that in a lunch one day. Of course, it's not the wealth tax alone that is Right's industrial policy to cut greenhouse gas emissions, but it's a very clear recognition that being able to cut greenhouse gas emissions also from the private sector actually requires black figures on the bottom line and not red ones, and to understand that it's not just about taxes or political decisions, it's also about having a business that is able to take the grips ourselves. Some of what I think this whole hall has been in in the last few months is visiting businesses. I have to say that one of the most beautiful things I see then is how forward-looking business leaders around the country along with their employees cut emissions in new, innovative ways – because they have the resources and the money for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9489	I thank you for the congratulations and continue the discussion on this property tax that was specified under what the Right-leader called industrial policy. One of the most concrete promises in this election campaign was that they would cut the property tax on large equity and commercial property, also called working capital by some. It would cost 7 billion. kr in the next major period, 6 billion. kr to the country's richest 1 pst, and 3 brd. kr only for commercial real estate. My question is then: when we agree that Norwegian economy is now better, and we are on our way out of the pandemic, what in the Norwegian economy is it that suggests that 3 billion is absolutely necessary. kr in tax cuts for those who have real estate assets within commercial real estate?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9496	First, we in the Right are also concerned about who owns the companies, that Norwegian ownership is a value in itself. We know that the property tax also makes it more difficult for Norwegian owners to raise capital compared to non-resident owners. This is a reasoning that I do not need to explain to the representative, because he agrees with that principle. The representative and the government platform on which they themselves have signed it correctly states that the discount on working capital should be reduced, but it should be 20 pst. There must be something about what you have invested the money in, which means that the Workers' Party is also in order to have a different tax and a lower tax on wealth on industry than they have on other assets. So we clearly agree on the principle, it's just that we take the consequences of that principle and say that then we shouldn't tax what is invested in business. But that's just 20 pst. Agreed. We just have to take note of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9502	I would also like to congratulate and welcome the outgoing Council of State back to Stortinget. It will be very nice to have a constructive work here, and I am pleased with the efforts the representative has made in the field of education in different roles. The size has, among other things, has had a high level of involvement in higher vocational education in recent years. The law has been strengthened, an obligatory escalation plan has been adopted, and the number of post-school students continues to rise. Is the representative of Asheim happy about the change of government and that the vocational schools are now going to have a further promise?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9511	Can I answer that question? I am not pleased with the change of government, simply because I would like to continue to be the Council of State. But I am very happy that this government is warning that it wants to have a further education for the colleges. We don't have to pretend that we disagree where we're not. We also put forward a separate subject school strategy before the summer, where we also pointed out that this growth should be included. One of the challenges facing the new Council of State and the new government is to ensure that growth continues and that quality is maintained. I know that the representative Knutsdatter Strand's party has also been involved in Stortinget. So the big discussion now is how we provide the quality as well. I understand that we have a new government and a new majority, but if you want to lack good ideas, there is a document in the Department of Knowledge that is a strategy for higher vocational education, where it is certainly possible to pick at least some of it, if the Council of State wants to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9520	I would like to begin by saying that I am pleased to cooperate with the representative of Asheim in the Labour and Social Committee. He was clear about the importance of work, of work, and that the big difference is between those who are in the workplace and those who are out of work. But there is also a distinction in working life between those who are in a jobless situation and those who have regular employment and can participate in collectives and trade unions. For SV, it is important to have both full and permanent jobs, and therefore I wonder what the representative Asheim considers to be the most important for the communication of a secure job in Norway. Is there a public employment agency, or is there a job vacancy through the manning industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9525	I'm not going to go into it if you call it a freelance job or anything else, but I think – to be honest – that it's very important to have a combination of both recruitment agencies and public guidance into work. This is because the agency also has that function – now it is about. 1-2 pst. of the staff working through these agencies. We also know that of those who receive temporary jobs, almost half are in permanent employment after a year. There are several ways into working life. Some of those used by the agency staff are used to get away from peaks. It is also important for those who work in those companies to ensure that new jobs can be taken, for example. But it is also important to have some lower thresholds for those who may not have the work experience, who need the first job, the certificate and the CV that will enable them to move on. So I disagree with the representative Bergstø and SV – and this we will probably discuss a lot over the next four years – in their view, simply to ban an entire industry, the manning industry, but my party and we would like to work together on how we can get it in a good way, so that these arrangements are not abused.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9534	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9539	Over almost two years of coronary apathy, our common health and care service has given us security. It's passed the stress test. The Hurdal Platform states that it is now the turn of public health and care services. Therefore, we need to strengthen the basic funding of hospitals, strengthen the community health service and remove the privatisation mechanisms introduced by the previous government. A former minister of health and care – now Prime Minister – has said that although the health of the individual is the responsibility of the individual, we are all responsible for our common health service. We need to do something about environmental and social conditions that contribute to disease, and we need to create good conditions for good health and quality of life for everyone. In itself, inequality is a source of increased health inequalities. We're going to be a government of ordinary people, a government that balances differences. Increasing inequalities depend on trust, security and cohesion. In particular, it is important to give children and young people a good start in life. The increase in mental health problems among young people is worrying. We need to strengthen the efforts to get young people healthy habits early and to ensure normal development, and to find work that gives meaning and direction in life. Here I want to work with several departments to find good solutions. We must prevent the coronary crisis from creating new health crises. We need to return quickly to hospital treatment and follow-up in health and school health services. Psychiatric health and drug use are a particular challenge. We need both low-threshold mental health care and a quality reform for mental health protection. We have announced a stepping-up plan for mental health. In concrete terms, we have said that the escalation should ensure increased capacity in the specialist health service. We will also look closely at municipal services, mental health protection for children and young people in particular, at district psychiatric centres and the hospital psychiatry. We also need to implement a prevention and treatment reform in the field of drugs. Decision-makers have a major and important role to play in the health model we have in Norway. A well-functioning health and care service depends on the functioning of the fixed medical system. A well-functioning fixed medical system is closely linked to the fact that we have a good medical care service, which is there when the help is needed, throughout the country. We want to strengthen the system so that we ensure better recruitment and stable medical services throughout the country. In 2030, there is not only a big anniversary in Stiklestad, but we will also be older than children in Norway. It's a historic milestone. That means that we have to change and do a lot different – and that's a big motivation. We need to look at solutions that help older people to live longer at home and live an active life, including: through an activity-guaranteed reform, by focusing on welfare technologies and by providing good nutrition and more organised housing. We have a great lack of nurses, and we need regular doctors, specialists and health professionals. Therefore, the government will establish a Health Personnel Commission to promote measures to train, recruit and maintain qualified health professionals throughout the country. It is the professionals who are the gold in the health and care services. They've had a tough guard, and a lot of people are tired. We must take care of all those who make our common health and care service the best in the world. Solid, entire positions shall be the general rule in the health and care services. We have to train, recruit and keep good people, and the last thing that public health needs to do is get better. In order to keep professionals working in the healthcare sector, it is also necessary to have access to up-to-date technologies and skills development so that they can be at the forefront of the professions. This is how we give priority to the health of ordinary people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9566	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9571	First, I would like to congratulate the Council of State on a new job. When Bent Höie became Minister of Health and Care, a former addict said: Remember, you are my Minister of Health, too. Earlier this year, we presented a proposal for drug reform. The goal was to provide people with help for their addiction rather than punishment. When the Labour Party decided that they were against the Russ Reform Right, the chairman of the editorial committee said that we could exempt heavily addicts from punishment, yes, there were already such exceptions today, for children under 15 years of age, and for people who were unencumbered by criminal law. I am really more concerned with the policy to be pursued in the future than what has been said before, but my question to the Council of State is: When you put adult people in the same booth as children and unpredictable because they have an addiction, is it that the Council of State also bases its view on drug care, and does the Council of State agree that this way of talking about people contributes to more, not less stigmatisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9580	The Hurdal platform makes it very clear that we want a prevention and treatment reform for drug addicts. It has been in demand for a long time. We want to improve health services first and foremost, and we also want to find out how criminal exemptions for drug addicts can be implemented by law. To the representative Bruflot's example of others who are exempt from punishment, I would say that the Workers' Party has in the past gone ahead to grant these people patient rights. It is also such that this government underlines that these are patients who are to receive a health service based on knowledge and best practice in healthcare. That it's going to be very stigmatizing to be compared to children and other sick people, we don't base our attitudes. These are patients. They're going to get better help.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9587	Among the user organisations in the drug field there were several who said that these statements from the Workers' Party were the most brutal they had received during the whole drug reform debate, and it has, as Kjerkol himself was in, been for a while. So I don't agree that we should minimize what it feels like for addicts – and for relatives – to be put in a booth with children and unaccountable, because they aren't, even if they have an addiction. But I can ask the Council of State another question: How does the Council of State think that the police should distinguish between who is addicted enough, and who is worthy enough of the help the Workers' Party will offer, instead of being punished?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9595	This government intends to follow up the decisions the Stortinget made in ours. It is linked to better prevention of drug dependence, but there is also a clear marshalling ground to provide better health services. Decisions have also been taken to provide the police with more tools in the toolbox in contact with first-time users and in contact with drug addicts. We'll follow that up. Then it will require legal work to exempt those who have a heavy drug addiction, and that of course the Storting will be engaged in, as that work starts.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9602	I would also like to congratulate the Council of State on a new job. It might be a little slack at first, but she'll notice that we're going to challenge her. If we are to ensure widespread settlement in Norway, we must ensure that we have decentralised hospital services close to where people live, and everyone remembers eight years ago when the red-greens crashed – then there were many hospitals that were laid down under the Central Party, the Workers' Party and the SV's regime. But I want to start a little positively, because we have a proposal to further develop Klinikk Alta, which the Hurdal platform also confirms. The question to the Council of State is whether she supports our proposal to establish a future-oriented ‘ulter’ operating room at Klinik Alta, which is an important step towards establishing a fully-fledged emergency hospital with food supplies in Alta.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9609	The Hurdal platform is talking about Alta in particular, and I'm counting on the representative Hoksrud to read that. Alta has a great clinic that provides a decentralised specialist health service to the population of Alta and West Finland. It was planned and decided under a health minister named Jonas Gahr Støre. It wants this government to develop further. Today, there is an offer in both somatics, mental health protection and drugs. We'll get back to that. There, patients in West Finland will have many of their needs solved. Klinik Alta is already a success, it has moved the specialist health service closer to Alta's population, and it is a professional offer to be further developed. Then I thought the representative was a little bit detailed, while I was a little bit more on the headline.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9616	I would also like to start by congratulating the Council of State on a new job and looking forward to fruitful cooperation. I noticed that the Hurdal platform says both that the government will ensure that the entire population of Groruddalen will receive a local hospital in new Aker hospitals as soon as possible, and that changes will be made to the hospital structure in Oslo according to agreed plans. ‘According to adopted plans’ means in 2036 for us who live in the Groruddalen, who are already soaking up a hospital that has blown up capacity, namely Ahus. I live in Groruddalen, I have my family there, and I have my friends there. We need a new local hospital and 2036 is not fast enough. This is not a project Oslo himself wants. What I'm asking is, can we count on the state council to give a different priority in terms of time, and that the state council will not overrun the agreed plans made in Oslo, which does not want this giant hospital?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9623	The process of building new hospitals at Oslo University Hospital has taken over ten years. Oslo has the oldest hospital builders in the country, so it's urgent, and I share the representative's impatience. It is therefore important that these plans be implemented as quickly as possible. The plans for a new emergency hospital at Aker also involve a new large-scale hospital guard, which the municipality of Oslo builds in the same project. This is an important extension of the health supply to the population of Groruddalen. We're going to assume that these plans are going to be implemented as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9628	Governments said very much about inequality and privatisation in their articles. Congratulations on new job! I am pleased that you will follow up. Bad advice is the main reason people don't go to dentists. Now it's high time for a dental reform that equates dental health with the rest of the health services. The intentions of dental health in the government statement are very good, but then there is quite a great distance between the intentions and the actual measures. The government says it will treat the teeth as the rest of the body, but at the same time it will increase the age limit for those who are actually part of the public dentistry, by just a few years. The question is, is that, seriously, everything the government will do on dental health in four years?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9635	The Hurdal platform determines what this government intends to do, and we intend to improve the public dental service. We're going to extend it gradually, and we're going to give them priority first with bad advice, people with diagnostics that make them need more dental treatment, and the young. In addition, we will also strengthen preventive dental practice. This means, among other things: to strengthen the county councils, which are responsible. So we like to talk to the Storting about higher ambitions, but this is what we're going to do first in this four-year period.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9640	Then I think that what's on the Hurdal platform is a good start, but that's not necessarily all we're going to do in four years, because it's actually so that a lot of people of 30, 40, 50 and 60 years won't get much help from what's on the Hurdal platform. Can the Council of State say that we can do more?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9645	It would have been a funny first debate if the Council of State were so fresh. I'm probably going to deal with the Hurdal platform and what the Workers' Party and the Centre have agreed to prioritize during this four-year period.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9650	I am very pleased with two things that the Council of State mentions, firstly that addicts should get help, not punishment, and secondly that the Council of State also recognises that there are too many who have waited too long for a reform in this area. But I'm, like the representative Bruflot, quite concerned about the distinction that the Council of State puts up to be, and I get worried when I hear that you really want to figure out how to get away from a principle of equality for the law. So my question to the Council of State is: now, when you add up to a system where you have to meet a court in the ultimate consequence and provide proof that you're addicted enough before you get help, what does the Council of State think to be the threshold? I understand that the Council of State will investigate this, but the Council of State must have some thoughts for itself. When are you addicted enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9657	The Hurdal Platform makes it very clear that there is a prevention and treatment reform to be implemented by this government. It means better health care and more knowledge-based treatment for people who are sick and not criminals. That's what Stortinget has also made clear decisions about, which we're going to follow up on. So I think the representative, at least if he's honest with himself, knows that I don't have very specific things to report today on how to impose a punishment waiver for addicts. It will require investigation, consultation and thorough legal work. It's a mission that this government will deliver to Stortinget. But we're not waiting for that. This is a patient group that has waited a long time, as the representative rightly points out. We are going to deliver a treatment reform, we are going to look at the treatment offer they receive today, and we are simply going to give better patient follow-up to patients who today cannot be said to have that community should give them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9665	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9670	It is a great day for Norway, because we are discussing a new direction for our country. For eight years we have had a government that has centralised our country every day. Now we get a government where taking the whole country into use is the central one. But it seems that the new opposition has a little problem addressing the policy we are going to pursue. For example, it seems that a person does not fully understand what an active enterprise policy is. It may seem that some people think it is about the state that is now going to pursue industrial policy in Norway. The platform clearly states that private ownership is the starting point for Norwegian business, but the state should have a much more active role in helping business, facilitating business, being a partner and not a counterpart to business. It may be that when a buyer buys goods and services, it is not certain that it is best to create employment in Norway, to bribe a boat in the Netherlands. That was the logic of the previous government. We have to make sure that the type of purchase takes place in Norway. We have to make demands on business, but we also have to set up with support, tools and cooperation. When it comes to this active industrial policy, which is so afraid, it is worth noting that both the LO and the NHO are interested in such a development. Another important intervention in industrial policy is that one goes from looking at the most expensive possible current as a target for cheap currents to be a advantage for Norwegian business. Tord Lien said in 2013 that the more expensive stream was the goal. But that's completely wrong, because one shouldn't be based on selling the most possible stream out of the country. One should be based on producing the most value and workspaces of this stream. We don't want to be a banana republic. We want value creation and development in Norway. Another field that was sorely affected by a new political course is our agriculture. The platform is very offensive in this field. We must close the revenue gap and have a mandatory plan for it. We need to increase self-sufficiency. We're going to have an agricultural farm in the whole country. When we entered the Ministry of Agriculture, we saw that there was little that was cleared, there was an inheritance to take care of, because the additional negotiations with agriculture had Olaug Vervik Bollestad put in a drawer and pieces from – hoped that no one would find it. The previous government forbade fur nutrition and bailed out the bill. It is not done, and the task is waiting. And there is a disengagement requirement that will have a major impact on milk production and require large investments. One's just betting it's going to go over. In this sense, we have had a government that has not understood the situation. One has not had an honest communication about how it has been in agriculture, that the economy has actually been under pressure. We've had Right's agricultural network that's traveled around the country, mastering local specialities without understanding the fundamental link between agriculture and agricultural policy. There we need to make changes. We must have more honest communication, and we must have greater objectives for agricultural policy. And when it comes to honesty in communication, I hope that it will be a hallmark of the new plurality, because after eight years – also with the Progress Party in government – it is time to point out the importance of honesty. We heard earlier today partisans Sylvi Listhaug talk about having reduced the toll by 2 billion. kr, but when the car list looks at its bill from 2013 to 2021, she has increased by 2 billion. kr. And so it's on the Progress Party's program: to cut, that's to increase. Then people get confused, and I think it's a dangerous policy. The party of progress should be honest and say: we have increased the fees in Norway, we have increased the tolls in Norway. Another area of industrial policy is fisheries policy. There's a need for a clean-up. The policy has been steered as sport practice progresses without hope. We have dealt with an allowance notification where one of the decisions of the previous majority was that the measure adopted should be implemented. Now we have to reintroduce, and the fishing industry is beginning to present a new and up-to-date quota message.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9691	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9696	Changes and transformations require both knowledge and competence, often point competence, and in many contexts it is not appropriate and appropriate to have all competences firmly assigned. Today, in the magazine of Rome, we could read that the representative Pollestad confirms that the government is going to cut out all the consulting, and in the Hurdal platform, 148 policy fields are going to work out, it's going to look at, and it's going to be evaluated. My question is: does the representative Pollestad believe that there will be less use of consultants for all of these items listed in the Hurdal platform?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9701	I haven't come so far in the newspaper stack that I've read the Austrian magazine today, but it sounds like a good political goal to reduce the use of consultants. We think it's taken all the time under the previous government. What we've pointed out especially in the first round is the huge growth in the PR agency, that people have gone from the government apparatus to the First House and back again. This is the big democratic problem associated with, plus that very much energy, resources and capital has been put into marketing, obtaining information and consulting wires. We want more of the competence to be built internally in the state, but we also want and believe that the communication agency – funded through the previous government – has gained too much position in society, so now we move power away from the PR agency and back to ordinary people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9706	So the representative confirms that this is going to end with consulting, and so I'm not talking about the PR business in my question here. But my question is, would it be inappropriate to use external consultants when assessing the EEA's operating space?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9711	Now I think we should read the Hurdal platform and what it says. There are rather harsh wordings about the use of the PR agency and the communications industry, and then there is a desire and a political goal to reduce the use of external consultants. It won't come down to zero, and I can't confirm that we want to remove it, but it's definitely a political goal to reduce it significantly. Some of the tasks will probably also require that a person obtains special skills, but the government that has been up until now has used this to a great extent. That's what I think is very unfortunate, and that's why we're notifying you of a new course. I can also point out that Denmark has managed to reduce its use of consultants, so Norway is not in a special position to reduce the use of external consultants.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9716	The representative Pollestad mentioned honesty in his statement. He could have been honest that the Central Party last time they were in government, they would be Europe's battery, that they were working for power cables abroad, and the representative himself went to the elections of 1000 windmills only in Rogaland. But I'm sure there are things in the energy policy we would like to see cleared, both of them, so I'm not going to rip up in the past. I'd rather look forward, because that's something we both agree on, and that's that we want lower power prices for people. There is also a point on which the representative used one of his last written questions before the election. Today we have promoted a concrete proposal, proposal No. 20, to remove electricity and VAT charges for private households from 1 November. It will have immediate effect and will not have to wait until January, such as any changes in the State budget. Is there anything the Center Party will vote for?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9721	That's interesting when the Progress Party comes up with its requests for honesty. Then we can go to the actual situation: what is the situation after almost eight years with the Progress Party in government? Well, it's that those who lose petrol pay 20 kroner, and those who buy electricity have a record high electricity charge. These are the actual ratios that I'm going to assume. Several government representatives have said that we will take action to compensate and avert the consequences of high power prices. We'll follow it up, it'll keep going to Stortinget, and we'll follow it up in the supplementary proposition. I'm glad that we're past the time when the budget house is going to be thinking of new items that can be taxed, as the reality was when the Progress Party and the Left sneak together the state budget on the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9726	I look forward to working with the representative of the Financial Committee, including: on a more active industrial policy. And then the Center Party has also been talking more and more about increasing differences in recent years, and that's very good, because we see that the increasing economic differences are driven by an increasing concentration of wealth, but also by power and influence. This concentration can ultimately be a threat to democracy, because how much money you have also affects how much influence you have on social development. Nor is it good industrial policy when capital is collected on ever fewer hands. So I want the representative to say something about what the Central Party will do to reduce this concentration of wealth.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9733	I believe that one of the strengths of Norwegian society, and what has made us a society of relatively small differences, is that ownership has been spread. The fact that we have managed to spread ownership of forests and soil has been important. It has been possible because one has had promises that also assure us that too much power comes on too few hands. So I think one of the most important steps we're going to take in the future is that when we regulate business, we're going to make sure that we make a difference between the rules that apply to big companies, that actually tolerate a lot of rules, and the small companies, that are more sensitive to new regulations, and where it's more resource-intensive to adapt to this. Whether it's a fisherman or a carpenter, I think that a clear differentiation of demands according to company size will be one of the key measures that I hope we'll have the opportunity to work together to shape up in the financial committee over the next few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9741	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9746	Immigration must be the only policy area where the weakest receive least systematic help. It's also the only area where those who fight to maintain a system where the weakest sit at the bottom of the table are presented as the good and the rusty. There are now 82 400,000 people on the run. While we in Norway are discussing whether to pick up 50 or 100 people from Moria, the United Nations budget for refugee camps has been a balancing item for years. For the Progress Party, immigration policy is about being color-blind, about sustainability and about justice. For the money it costs to pick up 50 asylum seekers to the high-cost country of Norway, we could give 8,300 people a more valuable life in today's crowded refugee camps in Jordan. The children of Jordan hear neither Gahr Støre nor Battle Violence Vedum on, they have no cultural personalities or social summits that can fight their battles, and the media's interest in the fate of these children is confined to some overviews on Dagsrevyen. Millions of faceless children do not have parents with money and resources to get to Europe. The fact that children are not on European soil does not make their lives less valuable. Asylum seekers who have the resources to pay human traffickers and get to Europe have already shown that they are resource-intensive, and there is a great excess of men at their best age. It is unfair to help the few instead of the many, it is immoral to help the strong in front of the weak, and it is irresponsible to pursue an immigration policy that imposes enormous expenditure on future generations in Norway. I am proud that for a number of years the Progress Party has fought to increase the budgets to help the neighbourhoods. Last year's budgetary procedure at the latest, the Progress Party proposed to increase aid by 2 billion. kr, a proposal which unfortunately only received the votes of the Progress Party. Nor is it true that the borders of Europe are closed, as some try to give the impression. According to the UN, at least 1,146 migrants drowned in the Mediterranean only in the first six months, a double from last year, and at least 200 children drowned on their way to Europe only between 2014 and 2018. Today's asylum system brings some terrible incentives that result in drowning deaths and fill the wallets to unscrupulous traffickers. In the early 2000s, the Progress Party has already promoted proposals to establish asylum-seekers in Africa and give Norway full control over asylum policy. At that time, the unanimous agreement of a united political and press corps criticised the Progress Party for its impossibility. Well, the Workers' Party's sister party in Denmark has just adopted a change in the law on the establishment of asylum recipients in Africa. The Danes have also signaled their desire to cooperate with Norway, and the Social Democratic Prime Minister in Denmark has now also extended a hand to the Social Democratic Prime Minister in Norway. My challenge to Prime Minister Gahr Støre will then be whether he will cooperate with his Danish colleagues and ensure that this absolutely necessary revision of a dysfunctional asylum system takes place. I can remind the government that it has a majority in this Chamber together with the Progress Party, and that should not be on us. Finally, the Progress Party went out of the government of Solberg as we could not accept that Norwegian taxpayers are used to give terrorists special treatment. For the Progress Party, it is unacceptable that Norway is using resources to actively return people who have joined a so-called Islamic state, which in brutality can only be compared to atrocities we have not seen since World War II. It is simply boundless naive to bring home IS terrorists, whether they are women or men. The current IS woman got a sentence of three years, which means that she'll be out soon among all of us in society. This extremely low sentence has caused more terrorists now to see their cut and try to get the government to pick them up in Norway. The government has stated that it has a general basic attitude not to pick up terrorists, but what does this really mean? Will the government guarantee that no terrorists are brought to Norway, regardless of gender? That's what we'll see tomorrow when the Stortinge will vote for the proposals of the Progress Party to say outright no to bringing adult terrorists to Norway. It's about everyone's safety. It's not taxpayers' job to bring terrorists to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9763	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9768	I am aware that the representative Wiborg has just started his work on the Municipal and Administrative Committee. Nevertheless, his party has given up the Stortinget and the government many ministers of justice, so I venture forward in the field of justice and regret that I am a little out of the topic of the representative's posts. In the meantime, a new practice was introduced in this country with the Progress Party in the Ministerial Court of Justice. Children were deliberately placed in high-security prisons for adult men. The working party has shown that children have a special protection and that children are not to be zoned in ordinary prisons. Therefore, the government will now terminate all practice of children's soning in ordinary prisons. I don't know if it was political ideology that led to the Progress Party knowingly establishing places for children in ordinary prisons, or whether it was for more practical reasons. So now the government is going to change this. Has the Progress Party come up with better ideas and will the Progress Party support the government in this work?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9781	This was with respect to report a relatively strange line, which did not mention any of what I was inside in my post. One can wonder why the Workers' Party does not want to be involved in discussing what I actually addressed, the challenges we face with today's immigration and asylum system, which means that we have many people – whom I was inside – who die on the way across the Mediterranean. Over 200 children drowned in the period 2014–2018, and there is an urgent need to actually reach out, so that we can help those who need help most. I register that there is something the Workers' Party does not want to discuss here now, but I also register that the representative Aasen-Svensrud wants a new line, and then I hope it can be about my post.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9786	I'm sorry that this might be a strange exchange of lines, but I still want to stay within the field of justice and hope that with a slightly new theme, the representative from the Progress Party will be able to answer. After all, both inside and outside the government, the Progress Party has used many and large words about violence in close relations. The Labour Party believes that this is a serious crime. Therefore, the government will present a more obliging escalation plan than the previous government against violence and abuse in close relations. Does the Progress Party want to be involved and support under this?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9791	I noticed that the representative's reply was still not about what I was talking about in my post. But I'd like to answer the question, because the Progress Party has always fought violence in close relations. Among other things, we have have been called upon to increase the level of penalties in general for violence and, in particular, for violence in close relations, and we have put forward several concrete measures. The Progress Party is always constructive and will always be involved in various proposals if it can be involved and better. But I also hope that the Workers' Party can join in and see where the greatest challenge we have with violence in close relationships is indeed. Do we have people in Norway today growing up under strong social control and major challenges? Yes, we do. But then we must actually dare to tackle it and promote the necessary proposals to overcome the challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9796	The representative Wiborg spoke about a field where you could have a majority of the government parties. I want to go into another field where the Progress Party can contribute to the formation of a majority of government parties. In recent years, the Progress Party has not given priority to predatory policies. The two-part objective of predatory policies has not been achieved under the Government of Solberg, for which the Progress Party has either been part or formed the parliamentary basis. Farmers and concerned residents, including in Wiborgs and my own constituency, have not been taken seriously. In the Hurdal Platform, the Workers' Party and the Centre are aware of the need to pursue a more restrictive predatory policy, a predatory policy based on the predatory settlement, a predatory policy that takes care of the two-part objective, and which is intended to strengthen the role of regional predators. There is a change in predatory policies now, and it is time after eight years that grazing users and local populations have not been listened to, and the decisions of predators have been trained. Will the Progress Party support under a new line of predatory policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9803	Yes, we in the Progress Party are ready to discuss predatory policy with the government. We've already been out and signaled that. If the government wants to cooperate with the Advance Party in order to achieve a more sensible predatory policy, we are prepared to do so at any time. At the same time, I record that there are some varying signals coming from the government, where some forces are very clear that one should go to SV in these matters as well, while others may see that it is more to pick up by going to the Progress Party. That's a little bit of what I hope now at the beginning of a period, that you can get a government that's willing to see where there's actually an opportunity to get through a lot of good politics for the country. But unfortunately, I record that the Central Party has too much chosen to lean on a radical socialist left side.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9808	SV will always pursue a fair and co-operative refugee and immigration policy. As the Progress Party, we are concerned that good integration for those who already live with us is very important. The difference probably lies in the fact that the Progress Party wants a strict – and I also feel more and more strongly – policy, not least in the area of family reunification. Not being with those you love – children, parents, spouses – means that you often worry about how these people feel both day and night. It's going to be all devouring, and it's going to be hard in everyday life. It also makes it very difficult to get integrated, learn Norwegian and get out of work. Does the representative, Mr Wiborg, see that integration can be hampered by ever more stringent family reunification rules?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9814	Mostly no, because in fact the challenge we face in integration policy in Norway is that too many find, for example, too many. Spouse from the country of origin, which means that integration must be relaunched all the time, and that more and more children grow up with parents who have not even gone to Norwegian school, know the Norwegian system and know the Norwegian language. As I said in my post: Norway cannot help everything and everyone. It's unfair to help those get instead of the many. It is immoral to help the strong in front of the weak, and it is irresponsible to pursue an immigration policy that imposes enormous expenditure on future generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9821	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9826	We have a time when inequalities in power and wealth have increased, where the gap between those who have the least, and those who have the most, has increased. We often see that increasing differences are represented by graphs, numbers and statistics, but it's always about people. It's about people. It's about those who are now struggling to get the ends to meet, to get the electricity bill paid, after a time of lay-off and unemployment. It's about those who have ended up on a bar because of cuts in the redundancy money, and it's about the single mother who called me a Friday night and was so desperate because she had been shopping with the boy and he wanted both Donald and brown cheese, and she had to choose. That's what happens when you cut the children's supplement to the decapitated. It has been a serious time for our country because the coronary crisis has become a disparity crisis. Even though most of us have got both one and two stitches, the differences go deep. That crisis hangs again. Therefore, it was gratifying to hear Prime Minister Gahr Støre say that inequality is married to a society. We agree with that. That's why we call for a powerful antidote through an economic redistribution and growth in welfare for the many instead of fortunes for a few. The majority in Norway have voted in favour of a new political course, a settlement with differences in power and wealth and a new course in climate and nature. That is why a new course must mean that. It must involve a new housing policy where housing is not something to speculate about, but something to live in, that cut in welfare is replaced by a security policy for more people, also for those who do not go to the dentist today because they do not dare the bill that comes with, and for all the kids who today have to go home alone while the others continue to play at the SFO, because the price is too high. There has to be a settlement with the unsocial cut of the right government, which we have been a lot about criticizing for many years. We also need to settle with the welfare professionals and ensure that every crown set aside for well-being is just going to be well-being. Each child-restraint crown shall go to vulnerable young people and not to child-restraint barons. In particular, a new policy course is needed for working life. Therefore, it is very good that clear thanks are given to the whole and firm positions, both through changes in law and through the means of getting enough people into the services of those who promise heavy welfare today, so that they will be able to stand in a full position. We need even stronger grip. The platform lacks a clear settlement with the labour society, which has grown up over time, which undermines an organised and safe working life and which undermines the building of skills in the workplace and the security of individual workers. A majority of members of the LO, and not least the most concerned federations, have clear decisions and expectations about the manning industry, which today replaces permanent employees with hired labour, and where the Labour Inspectorate says it is demanding to find out when rentals are legal and not. Here SV will work impatiently for stronger grips with the trusted ones. There we have to deal with the interconnectedness of rentals that exist, and not just the few, most serious things that are organized in the NHO, but the unprofessional and also criminal actors that actually do pay and gross exploitation of workers. We believe that working life needs a major cleaning, and getting the manning industry closed is part of the cleaning job that is needed now. Many have hopes of changes in their lives and communities, ranging from those who need glasses, pathless communities who need to get the boat back, and those who need security through well-being. We in SV are clear: if it gets too flat, we're going to help the government figure out the shape.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9841	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9846	A main theme in Bergstø's articles thinks I can be security. Now our industries are not just on the threshold, but on the right way into the green shift. Then there are a lot of people who express a clear expectation that the international framework conditions, trade agreements, social security and security that lie there must lie at the root of the road into the green shift – not only because one has to cooperate, but also because one needs that trade. My question to the representative Bergstø is: Does the representative Bergstø agree that the trade agreements and that cooperation should be based also on the road into the green shift?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9853	It's obvious that we need both cooperation and agreements to sell our products and to secure our business. The Committee calls for real trade agreements which do not bind us in areas which should be decided here in the Grand Duchy and which do not set aside negotiated tariff agreements and forward-looking rules in the labour market. I believe that the representative is specifically aiming at the EEA Agreement, to which SV is critical, because we see that social security has had to give way to the EEA, and because we see that more and more areas that should be decided by democratic bodies in Norway are being challenged from Brussels. We will rule ourselves, not be controlled remotely from Brussels.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9860	I agree that we should challenge what has been bad in today's framework, but then, in combination with at the same time preserving industry's interests and workers' ability to change and be on that train when it goes – instead of experiencing market uncertainty when they also have uncertainty about change and other things, whether it be technology or demand. My follow-up question is: does the representative Bergstø agree that the Stortinget must take responsibility for combating social dumping, take responsibility for it and use the space for action? It's simply the new government that's very concerned that we're going to take that responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9867	I can assure you that SV is ready to apply the reservation right when needed. We have never been afraid to say no when we see that we are being tried to impose policies in areas that do not serve the Norwegian people. I am pleased that the train is mentioned, because it reminds me of a very important matter, namely to prevent Norwegian trains from being privatised forever. The railway should ensure that people around the country do not get any profit out of the country. We cannot help but note that the many challenges that bind us through the EEA Agreement have led to an uprising. This is why, for example: The Joint Undertaking called for an investigation into alternatives, because it sees that the safety of the labour market is threatened. I think it would have been a good thing to be able to reassemble; alternatives to further discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9876	First of all, I would like to say that I am very pleased to have a good cooperation with Kjersti Bergstø in the Labour and Social Committee. My first job as a young student in Oslo went through a recruitment agency. I got work experience, I got paid, and I got a foot within the workplace. It was also good for my employer at the time to get help recruiting people. Bergstø often refers to us, who got into work this way, as freelance workers. In the election campaign I visited a small company called Active Crewing at Kongsvinger in the Inland. They assist the industry in the region in providing important labour, helping people into work, and – the best of all – they do not cost society one penny. It's the companies that pay for a service they want. So I ask you, does the representative of Bergstø recognise that local recruitment agencies, such as Active Crewing on Kongsvinger, can have a social benefit and help people into working life?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9885	I too look forward to good cooperation in the committee, and then our paths are distinguished in the view of the work, form and function of the manpower industry, because it is not the manpower industry that creates labour. Instead of having a public employment service that actively ensures that unsolved jobs meet vacant positions and that they enter into a contract and a contract of employment, we now see that there is far too much a manpower industry that is a barrier to direct employment – whether of a permanent or temporary nature. And it's just the fixed direct employment that leads to community participation, trade unions, and that can ensure a safe organized working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9890	The center part agrees with SV that equalizing inequalities is a main task. And then I think about both social and geographical inequalities. Stopping centralization is an important job for the Center Party. If we are to get young families to move to the districts, we must listen to the youth. And when the youth is asked what is most important for them to move, there is work, good services, especially kindergarten and school, and the ability to live where they want to live in the municipality they come from – rather than residential areas, in the area to which they relate. Does SV agree with us in the Central Party that we need to have an active district policy to stop this centralisation, and what action does SV see is necessary in order to listen to the youth and get the youth to move back to the district municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9898	I would like to thank you for the challenge from Greni. We share the vision that centralization must turn around and that we must build the whole country. Infrastructure is important then, including the digital one. It is necessary to ensure competence everywhere, including the possibility of taking training locally, because we know that there is a very strong link between where you are learning and where you live. It is also important that we have an active industrial policy, which both ensures that the coastal fleet is provided with the resources needed to get the fish on land and secures the jobs there, and also ensures that the small soil patches are used and the small farms are kept alive. For this reason, SV is engaged in a new course, but also in having a new policy for, for example, the direct grant of business support to small businesses that are establishing themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9903	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9908	The Workers' Party-Center Party government has presented a very comprehensive and good government statement, which will provide Norway with a new and fairer course. So far in this debate, I do not feel that there is much opposition to what has been presented by the government. When I have registered the statements from the time when the government presented this statement up in Hurdal, and until now, it is – without exception – only the opposition that has been opposed or that has had critical voices to what is there. Of course, the opposition – as its duty – has had some critical comments, but they drown a little in all the positive reviews that have actually been given to the statement other than that. For the statement, a time window just hits that we're in. It takes hold of the green shift and facilitates that the many amazing opportunities we have after all in this country can be used to secure people, reduce differences and not least create important values. Although the representative Solberg earlier today tried to say that all the arrows point in a certain kind of a positive direction for the country, it's okay once again to stress that everything isn't very well just like the situation is. The pandemic is not over, the aftermath will continue to affect parts of Norwegian business, the unemployment rate is still high, long-term unemployment is increasing, and the trade balance, if you keep oil and gas out, gives good cause for concern. There is little to boast about – although exports have increased from 2013 – as long as the trade deficit, excluding oil and gas, is 221 billion. kr per September current year. It is quite dramatic, and it has not been sufficiently arranged for the Norwegian industry to be able to take part in the green shift in a reassuring way. Too many investments are being put on hold, because infrastructure and power etc. is not in place. Greenhouse gas emissions may be the biggest challenge and the most important task of our time. If we plot the paths that are predicted, it will show cut in 2030 at 19 pst. – 19 p.m. We're going to cut 55 pst. in 2030. So the problems that the new government is going to do are huge – formidable – and it seems to have to deal with the problems that the previous government didn't. Today's statement hits the industry. It meets the needs of the industry for the green shift. Through an industrial offensive, we can now manage to create new jobs, secure the welfare of the future and help cut the world's emissions. We can better ensure the potential for further processing of our natural resources, and we need to establish mutually committed climate partnerships, where the community contributes to supporting conversion and technology shifting to low- and zero-emission solutions. Renewable power must be a priority for the Norwegian industry. We want to put in place the power to create just safe, forward-looking jobs, and we want to ensure that industry can actually take part in it and use the important resource. We will also present a national strategy to put in place green industrial areas and industrial parks with international competitive advantages and where we have the infrastructure in place. And instead of liquidating SIVA, as today's government wants, we will further develop SIVA and facilitate that there can be an important tool in the construction of Norway. We want to remove the system of guarantees of origin that Tord Lien talked about in 2016, precisely because we want to give priority to the industry's need for strength. We will ensure that we are able to exchange fossil energy use with renewable energy, as one of the most important climate measures we can take. The CO 2 tax is important — yes, but it is very important to make it possible for a person to be able to move from fossil energy use to renewable energy use. We want to cut greenhouse gas emissions and facilitate the creation of new jobs, and we are going to facilitate emissions cutting to become the core of the growth, export and new jobs strategy. We also say very clearly that we should cut the greenhouse gas emissions by 55 pst. and increase exports by 50 pst. These are concrete, committed objectives, not symbols, but will be the political leaders of an offensive and concrete food, energy and climate policy that facilitates green shifts, cuts greenhouse gas emissions, and exploits natural resources so that new future-oriented jobs can be created.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9928	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9933	First, I would like to congratulate the representative of Aasland on an important position as Parliamentary Vice-President of the Workers' Party. Then I want to ask a particular question related to the fractional leader position in the Business Committee, which the representative had in the previous period. Then I expect the representative to have noticed the rather eye-catching statements of the Manifesto tanker. It is Magnus Marsdal who states that the business part of the Hurdal platform is alarmingly radical and a breach of the policy that has been in place in Norway for the past 30 years. Does the representative of Aasland agree with that assessment of the government's business policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9942	I don't agree with the way to talk about this. But it's a clear use of the possibilities we have as a nation in the time window we're now in. We know that we need to increase Norway's exports from the mainland economy significantly, because our oil and gas revenues will fall during the time we meet. So then we have to facilitate that we can create more values in the mainland economy. Then we need to use our natural resources, not least renewable energy, to support and facilitate industry's investment, take over the green shift and increase its export shares. So that this is, according to Marsdal's expression, a radical platform: in my opinion, this is an active industrial policy that uses the amazing opportunities we have here in the country, just to create safe, forward-looking jobs in safe, solid companies, and where we can successfully implement the green shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9947	Let me first congratulate the representative of Aasland as head of the Energy and Environment Committee. I look forward to good cooperation there. The representative took up the Hurdal platform's target of 55 pst. cut greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, and I am pleased that the Hurdal platform is following up the ambitious objective of the Solberg government at this point. However, there is no doubt that the Hurdal platform is clearer about the exemptions from climate action to be introduced than the new measures to be put on the table to achieve these objectives. An effective measure known to the representative and to which the representative has refused is a ban on the breeding of ants. It is, of course, a very cheap and very effective measure. And now that the government is going to put forward a new climate plan, hopefully very quickly, because it is urgent, is it so that this action will be excluded from the new climate plan, or will the representative insist that it is still allowed to cultivate ants?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9954	First of all, thank you for the congratulations. I also look forward to good cooperation. We have already made it clear in the Committee on Energy and the Environment, and there are many important issues that lie within that committee in the future. With regard to the debate on ants and the decision taken in Stortinget, I do not think that the representative of Astrup could have fully come up with the basis and the prerequisites for that decision. This is to limit the reduction of ants, both in terms of the extent of new cultivation and in terms of the general reduction of ants. It is the intention behind the proposal, and it is very clear in Stortingen's position and should of course be followed up. But we don't want to put an absolute ban on the breeding of ants. If a farm needs some additional land, it should be able to be assessed and the municipality should be able to authorise it, but under very clear conditions regarding the climate and the natural qualities that myra is required to maintain.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9961	I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity to congratulate the representative on the position of leader in the Energy and Environment Committee. That's where we get a good cooperation, I think. I have a question about the situation relating to electricity and electricity prices in the country when it relates to networks. We see that there's a very big difference in electricity prices in Norway. They were yesterday and yesterday 20 o'clock in the middle of Norway and northwards and 131 o'clock in the south. Then there are major challenges with regard to networks and the need to build new networks, motorways in Norway. What does the government really want to do to improve that situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9970	Throughout the Hurdal platform, we really have a very good green thread, to say the least, which is about making renewable energy available for the conversion of Norway, but also for the development of Norway in terms of industry, etc. Making sure that we have an infrastructure that tackles that challenge is absolutely essential. The representative, Sve, is just pointing to the challenge, getting a better flow of power between the different parts of the country, from where the power is produced to where the power is consumed, and also doing so in an interchange phase. When, for example: often there will be excess power in South Norway, while perhaps Middle Norway will wear out, there must be a power exchange also that way. Balancing the price and power situation across the country will be an important task in the future, precisely to exploit the opportunities of the green shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9977	I would also like to take this opportunity to congratulate the representative of Aasland on the leadership of the Committee on Energy and the Environment and look forward to good cooperation there. At the same time, I would like to remind the representative of Aasland that the Workers' Party, together with the SV and the Centre, in the context of the climate communication in our promotion of the following proposal: ‘The government is asking for increased aid to solar photovoltaics and to facilitate the production of solar photovoltaics.’ At the same time, we know that Enova has recently cut support for private households that want to establish solar panels, and it was also on the news yesterday that further cuts could come. My question is: will the representative of Aasland ensure that the new government is following up the good proposal that the previous opposition on the Stortinget promoted in the context of the climate communication?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9990	All of them first: I am also happy to continue working with SV on good proposals that can develop Norway and make it easier for people. I think the Prime Minister said it very well here every day with regard to the climate challenges: we're not going to use the index finger, we're going to help people make reasonable choices in the situation we're in. Building frameworks around different measures that make both using energy more efficiently and cutting greenhouse gas emissions, I think is right and important, so I see the absolute need to follow up the kind of good proposals promoted by the Centre Party, the Workers' Party and the SV in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e9997	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10002	282 years ago, Norway’s first public school was opened. With that, the working class’s child also received a school offer. Since then, many proposals have been adopted in this room and have been based on what first became a strong public common school and in recent times also a well-developed nursery facility. As the new Minister of Knowledge, I am humble to all the work that has been done by my predecessors, but above all, I am humble to the efforts of thousands of employees in kindergartens and schools throughout the country put down every single day. Much of what I have heard in the first few days as a minister of knowledge shows that kindergarten and school are now experiencing a great and growing pressure. It is demanding to be the social home that the school is supposed to be, in a society where the differences between people are increasing, where more children grow up in poverty, where more young people become disabled and run out of work, where more people are struggling with mental health challenges, and where parental education plays a major role in the way young people do it at school. All of this is demanding for kindergarten and school to settle for. That's why I'm happy to be part of a government where social cohesion is not just a task added to the school, but a task added to the entire government. We are a government that in the area by region will fight against increased differences, and I think we can succeed. But then it can't be that it's in kindergarten, as we know is so important for children's development, we have such a low proportion of employees with education. To balance economic, social and geographical differences, we need to increase the quality and competence of kindergarten. Therefore, the ambition of the Hurdal platform that at least half of the kindergarten employees should be kindergarten teachers is so important. The same thing is the target of 25 pst. trade union workers. We're not just going to make kindergarten better, we're also going to include more children in the kindergarten community. Then, like the previous government, we cannot impose strong price increases on people in the parental payment. Instead, we want to make it cheaper for parents to send their children to kindergarten. At the same time, we need to balance the large differences in quality between kindergartens, including: by ensuring that the money we spend on kindergarten actually goes to the best of the children, and that municipalities are given the opportunity to apply quality requirements to private kindergartens. This government will improve school outcomes and increase secondary school performance, but I am concerned, as both the Education Association and the Student Organisation say so clearly, that a very large proportion of school education is currently being conducted by teachers without teacher training. Then maybe it's not so strange that there are three times as many people who get special education at the 10th stage as at the 1st stage, that's the opposite of early effort, or that more than half of immigrant boys complete secondary education, that's the opposite of good integration. In high school, we see that more students experience boredom and lack of motivation. We're going to build a stronger common school, a school where teachers get better time to catch up and follow up on those who need help and support, where students get to work more practically and differently, where teachers get to concentrate on education and learning and to experience trust and pedagogical space of action, where we are concerned that children learn basic skills early, and that they get the support they need to master these, where more people complete and are actually prepared for work and further studies, and where both teachers and students get a good team around them. The school can't solve all the problems that are expressed in our society, but all the problems we have in society are reflected in our classrooms. The government's goal is that all people in Norway should be able to live a good life and that our kids receive a good education offer is essential to achieving this goal. Education is the key to work, to participation, to being useful and thus experiencing belonging, but our children and young people enter the door to schools and kindergartens as whole people. We have to make sure that the whole human beings, with all that they carry, have a chance of success, and we have to do more to make sure that more of our teachers have the desire and the surplus to stand longer in our classrooms. It is a mission that I and my colleagues in the government take for granted, and I both hope and believe that the representatives in this room will be involved in solving that very mission.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10021	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10026	I would first like to congratulate the Council of State of Tonje Brenna with a very exciting and important responsibility, and I look forward to good cooperation. The main result of our government in the field of education is that far more people complete high school — eight out of ten — and many of them with the weakest starting point have taken the most up. It is essential to preserve a society of small differences. It surprises me that the Hurdal platform has not set a clear target for how many to complete in the future. I am concerned that where the Hurdal platform is clear, what is to be reversed – removing the four-year requirement for access to teacher training, removing the skills requirements of those trained before 2014 and also weakening the absenteeism threshold. Does the Council of State believe that these reversals will contribute to the completion of more students?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10033	Let me start by thanking you for the congratulations. I know that the representative Jan Tore Sanner knows how exciting the job I'm about to take on is. It is not true that this government is not concerned with setting goals for more people to pass and pass through school in a good way, where they learn what to do. That's why we have very clear targets for improving the quality of kindergarten. We have clear targets to reduce the price, so that more children can participate in the kindergarten community, and we have clear goals both to develop the school leisure system, which is an important part of children's school days, and to improve the quality of school. I think that a lot of decisions made in the field of school are good, but unfortunately the sum of decisions made in the field of school has become so massive that too many teachers feel that they don't have time to teach. It goes beyond quality, and it's this government determined to do something about the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10040	I agree that both kindergarten and school leisure are important, but it is absolutely vital that students learn to read, write and calculate properly. In the past, the Workers' Party had a read, write and calculation guarantee. It's now removed. One of the most important things is to ensure that teachers who teach Norwegian, English and math have professional depression. We offered almost 50,000 teachers further training. It's given results. The teachers themselves say that they have become better teachers. I now see that the areas where the new government is most clear are where to remove these requirements and lower the requirements. It worries me because it's so important that you have teachers who have professional depression, and that we make sure that the students who leave primary school can read, write and calculate. If you have a professionally weak starting point in your transition to high school, there are a lot of people dropping out. Why does the government think that lowering demands is the answer to the challenges facing the school?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10047	Of course, the government doesn't think that lower demands are the answer, but we have to do more to make more people choose to be teachers, and to make more teachers stay in school. The requirement for teacher training on fours in mathematics is too rigid. We are concerned that more people want to apply for teacher training, but equally important: we are concerned that teachers will be refilled throughout their working life. We're going to step up and keep going. We're concerned that working at school is going to be working in a developing place, a place where you experience getting filled up when you need it, and that it's not going to be government or accumulation that decides that it's precisely in mathematics that we separate you, so that's where you have to take continuing education. We think the school itself knows where they need to fill up with competence, and the school we're going to listen to. So it's important for me to say that our students should read, write and really calculate from an early stage in school. It's obviously a government target. I do not think the representative, Mr Sanner, really has any doubts about that either.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10052	I am not in doubt that Council of State Brenna believes this is important, but it is not made clear in the platform. Where the government is clear, removing the four-digit requirement for access to teacher training. It was introduced to help more students carry out studies, and the studies that have been carried out show that they have gone that way. However, back to competence requirements: the platform states that the government should eliminate the requirement for those trained before 2014. This means that in the future there will still be many teachers who lack professional immersion in these basic skills. I fully agree that there is a lot of other things that are also important in school, but reading, writing and calculating is a basic prerequisite for success in other subjects as well. Also in practical subjects the reading, writing and calculating skills are important. Why does the government choose to waive the requirement of professional immersion?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10059	I think the representative Sanner chooses, if not to misunderstand – it might be to go far – so to understand it this way. With the fourth requirement in mathematics, it's government and big business that determines which subjects the teachers are going to fill in, while with our arrangement, when we say that you learn to take professional fill through the working life where there is a need for it, we say on the contrary that we strengthen more of the subjects in the school. We are also very clear in the Hurdal platform that having a more practical school – strengthening the practical and aesthetic subjects also on the continuing education and training side – is crucial. The fact that students are different when they get into school has to be a strength. No matter what you bring in your luggage, whether you want to read to knowledge about time and space, or whether you want to know to it, whether you're practically strong, theoretically strong or both, there should be room for you in Norwegian school. Therefore, this government is committed to strengthening efforts to improve continuing training in practical and aesthetic subjects.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10064	I would also like to begin by congratulating the Council of State on the appointment and wish you luck with one of the government's most important tasks. There are two stories from young people that made a particularly big impression on me in the election campaign. One was from Tuva in 15 years, from Sande in Sogn and Fjordane, who, since she was a little girl, had worked purposely to get into the sports line on the Sogndal further on. It was her dream, but because of her postal code and that she no longer had free school choice, she could not go on the sports line she had dreamed of. I also want to refer to Luke in 16 years, from Flateby in Enebak in the Gulf, who came into his fourth choice because the three top schools were too far away and free school choices were removed in the Gulf, which the council knows very well, and which she was in. My question is whether the Council of State sees any negative aspects by depriving students of the freedom to attend and choose their school through free school choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10076	I would like to thank you for the congratulations of the Gulati combination, which warms the heart of a wool sock. There is hardly any perfect higher education admission system, but what we have to provide is that as much as possible we have the opportunity to take the course of education they want, in reasonable proximity to where they live, so that we do not make it more difficult than necessary to complete and pass. The representative calls it free school choice. I guess I'd prefer to call it the character-based intake, because that's what that means. This means, in reality, that with the most powerful characters, they have to take their place first, while everyone else has to line up. So I believe that it is a fine principle that has been in existence in Norway for many years, namely that it is the states that are the densest students, the schools and the workplace and the business community, who are involved in determining which students are to be channelled to which schools after they have applied. It still believes that this government is an important principle. We'll stick to that, and we'll reverse the changes the Solberg government did.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10085	I would also like to start by congratulating the Council of State, Brenna, on the appointment of one of the most important jobs in the new government, and I look forward to good cooperation in the future. It is no surprise that in some areas the new government platform could be more ambitious in the light of SV’s views, including in the knowledge field, for example. in order to ensure that each krone given to the kindergartens in taxes and parental payments actually goes to the children's offers and not to the private profits of large groups. There, we believe that there is a lack of action in the platform to actually reverse developments, such as requiring each kindergarten to be an independent legal entity. Why is that important? Well, it's all about, among other things. on transparency. My question as to whether the Council of State is open to further action in this field, for example. in line with the recommendations of the Storberget Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10094	I thank you so much for enough a pleasant wish for happiness. Our rules for kindergarten were designed at a time when we had a great need to build up many new places quickly. Today, the picture is quite different. About half of our kindergartens are run by private people, and over the years since the kindergarten agreement was concluded, the proportion of private kindergartens has increased, and the number of groups now running kindergartens has also increased. I want to give the representative quite right that there is a need to renew and strengthen the legislation here, so that we ensure that kindergartens are not driven by profit, but by a desire to run good kindergartens. So the government has told us to look at the law. This will definitely involve Stortinget, and the goal must be that more of the money you earn in kindergartens, go back to the children – together with a stronger focus on quality, lower price for parents when they have to pay for the place, and that municipalities also get involved and influence which kindergartens are allowed to establish themselves in which municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10103	It is good to hear, and the goal of SV is that every penny we spend on kindergarten should go to an even better offer for the children – better staffing, increased competence, better space and equipment, just to mention something. This is urgent, because if the development continues as it is now, half of the private kindergartens will actually be owned by the five largest commercial kindergarten groups by 2029. Then SV believes that it is a little too weak that the government platform, for example. it only states that it will be considered whether to introduce a municipal right of pre-emption for kindergartens sold, when this has already been established by the Storberget Committee. Therefore, I would like to ask the Council of State when she aims to land this assessment, so that we can take the necessary steps to prevent further harmonisation and commercialisation of our kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10110	I share the commitment that the goal of those who run kindergartens must be to run good kindergartens, and that it is quality, well-being, play and learning for the kids that are the most important thing. So I would say that designing a new law for this field, which too many other fields, is complicated. With the quick headcount I have managed to do after I went to the Norwegian Joint School under the then knowledge minister Gudmund Hernes, I have calculated that it is about. 123.5 hours since I sat in the Council of State chair. So I don't have an exact time when we're going to get back to Stortinget with these rules, but I can assure the representative that the commitment is great, primarily because our kids are going to have high quality in kindergarten when they go there, and also to regulate this better – for the benefit of kids in our kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10117	First of all, I would like to congratulate State Councillor Tonje Brenna on what several have already been involved in: one of the most important posts in the government. For it is about children and young people and growth, and it is also about teachers, students and getting this good cooperation. I remember the Council of State from my first meeting with her in a school debate – it's probably twelve to thirteen years ago – and I see that the energy, gentleness and knowledgefulness are both further developed and fully present. This will be a good collaboration at Stortinget, and I look forward to it. Then this debate is also about raising some differences, and we in the Left have no challenges with the private – whether it be private schools, profile schools – we believe it is an important grant in Norway. I'm really wondering what the council will say to all those who work in these schools, all those who have used these schools, and not least parents who have been very happy with the offer that has been there. Would she be able to say something reassuring to these, taking into account what is said about them in the government statement?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10126	I thank you for the pleasant and warm congratulations, and I also send them back. It's nice to see the representative Raja again. To all those who go to a private school, to all those who work there, and to all the parents who have chosen private school for their children, I would say, thank you very much for doing the job you do. Thank you so much for going to school every day, doing homework, reading what you're going to, and putting it into rehearsals. But I would also say to us as politicians that if we succeed in the goal of strengthening the common school, it will go at the expense of some of the appropriations and priorities we make. President, you have to forgive me if I remember wrong numbers, but I wonder if the Solberg government budget did not allow us to spend about 6 billion. kr in private schools. That's six billion. kr that could have been used in primary school. I'm not saying with this that this government will cut all those transfers, but I say that there is valuable money for us, which we can invest in the field of education for the benefit of all Norwegian children and young people who are going to go to our common knowledge school in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10135	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10140	For the right, the Norwegian healthcare is the patient’s healthcare. It's always the patient we're looking at when we're creating policies to solve the important health challenges. It's my grandmother, who deserves to be able to choose even when health fails and she needs help in everyday life. It's the boy who's been struggling with mental distress, and he wants to choose a drug-free treatment. She is the one who has been told that there may be cancer in the colon, and who is sedated to shorten the waiting time for an investigation, because public health services use free capacity in the private sector. There have moved new forces into the Ministry of Health, and along with that removal box is neither the freedom of choice for patients nor the confidence that it is the patient who knows best about himself. In the Hurdal platform – or the Huddarn platform, which common people in the upper part of Rome, where I live, might say – the patient’s healthcare is not mentioned in one single word. Despite the fact that the platform says that the government is to ‘move power to ordinary people in all areas of society’, it obviously does not apply to patients. Patients and the elderly will be given less power and less freedom of choice. Where over eight years we've created a healthcare service where the system needs to adapt to the patient, the Workers' Party and the Center Party turn this upside down and put the system first. Not only has the patient’s healthcare been a healthcare service where the most important question we ask the patient is: What is important to you? In the last eight years, the patient’s health service has provided high-quality healthcare with shorter waiting times. From 2013 to 2020, hospital waiting times have been reduced by two weeks. The waiting time for drug treatment has almost halved since we took over in 2013, from 59 to 33 days. We know, and many of us have known, that every day you have to wait can be tough and difficult both when you're a patient and when you're a relative. The recipe for reducing health cows and waiting times is not to say no to use all the good forces that will contribute to health care. The recipe for ensuring patients greater security is not by moving power from them back to the system. We are pleased that the new government will follow up its efforts to ensure a permanent system that is sustainable and forward-looking. Our 2020-2024 action plan is a historical strengthening of the general medical service by 1.6 billion. kr. So we know that the challenges can't just be solved with more money. The workload needs to be reduced, and we need to help reduce the financial risk associated with regularity. Safe and exciting professional environments must be created and good follow-up and organisation provided during the specialisation process. We also hope that the new government will follow up our enormous commitment to competence in the health and care sector. A professionally strong healthcare service is the vitality and safety of patients and relatives — in preventive health care, in specialist health services, in community health services, in mental health protection. The new Minister of Health will meet a constructive Right here in Stortinget, but she will also meet an uncompromising Right when it comes to standing on the side of the patient and freedom of choice. We cannot accept that this government is tearing down the patient's healthcare decision for decision. We want to fight for the right of the elderly to have free choice of use, the right of the residents to choose their own treatment site. We will fight to ensure that patients continue to receive prompt and proper health care by providing private forces with their diversity, their available capacity and their innovation. Right has a long tradition of shifting power from the system to the patient and fighting for stronger patient rights. The fact that the Workers’ Party and the Centre are now weakening patients’ rights by removing the free choice of treatment needed by seriously ill patients and by removing free choice of use in the care of the elderly is sad. We have stood and will always be on the patient's side, and we will continue to provide the patient's healthcare. Finally, I would like to address the Right proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10161	The representative Tone Wilhelmsen Troeen has drawn up the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10168	First, I would like to congratulate the representative as the new head of the Committee on Health and Welfare. We in the Labour Party look forward to constructive and good cooperation in the Committee, which is particularly important now when we have a minority government. The representative Wilhelmsen Troeen said that you should be on the patient's side. But obviously not all patients. The first matter that the representative raised when she became a health politician was the fight for abortion subjects. I have to say that I reacted quite a lot to that, not least when we have backed up the previous government, which decided the abortion law in the back room instead of in floodlights, as the Workers' Party now wants to do in government. The question is, why does the representative think that an admission is better than the woman herself to make important decisions for her life?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10176	First I would like to say thank you. I also look forward to working with the representative Myrseth. I think the words congratulate and thank you must be the ones that are most used here in the hall today, and it says a little bit about the fact that power acquisitions are good here in the Stortinget as well. The right has opted for the day's abortion permit to be fixed. It means self-determined abortion to 12 weeks, and that means that we're going to keep the denominators. It's not controversial, it's in the Right Magnitude Selection Program. Then we have a free and independent press in this country, and when you are interviewed about your new task as head of the Health Committee, you can't actually choose what's going to be the headline and the ingress. I talked to the journalist about a lot of other things. I am determined that we can work together to see how the abortion students can work better. The right-hand government has also done a lot to ensure that the abortion subjects work well. But the Right's policy in this area is absolutely firm.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10183	I don't quite know what the representative Wilhelmsen Trøen thinks about predatory challenges, but it's highly related to mental health. People in Akershus have been frightened by wolves. They've lost both pets and pets. And the reindeer in the Northland are in despair. In recent years, predatory wildlife plagues have accelerated. The cleaning is the most important prey at my house. The first reindeer district is now laid desolate, and many other districts have scarcely animals to slaughter. Still, the flocks are shrinking. Can the representative Wilhelmsen Trøen and Right now plan to support a more restrictive predatory policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10188	I come from an area that has challenges with wolves. I have neighbors and I know a lot of people who think it's incredibly demanding to live with it. I had where I used to live, at Eidsvoll, a neighbor who one summer lost almost half his sheep flock to pasture in our area. I have a very strong understanding that it's demanding. But then it is that our predatory policy should also be balanced, and I and the Right stand on what is predatory settlement here in the Stortingen, and hope that the new government, with the Center Party, will ensure that what has been adopted here in the Stortingen as a broad deal with the stock of wolves and other predators, will continue to exist in the future. It's important for a lot of people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10193	I am also happy to work with the representative of Wilhelmsen Trøen in the Health and Care Committee. It may be a little early to congratulate the Committee Chair. I guess it's fair to say that it's 100 pst. I'm sure it will, but I guess it won't be until tomorrow. I have agreed with much of what the Right has done in health policy. I mean, they've done a lot of good. But I have to say that it is quite provocative to experience that the last government is presenting, is an invasion of approx. $1.5 billion, $500 million. kr, from ordinary people and many ill people who don't have a good economy, who get increased by almost 500 kroner. How does the representative Wilhelmsen Troeen think that is right? In fact, the government proposed even higher ceilings in its draft budget for this year. The progress party got it turned to the ground and got rid of that increase, but now I am recording that the previous government is making a new proposal that will mean too many.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10200	For the Right, it has been important to do something about self-interest in order to make the system more social. Those who have had and have high health costs have paid very much in proportion. The aggregation of these two ceilings is a simplification for the users. And then we must not forget that some groups – minimum pensioners, children and people with occupational injuries – are already protected from part of this. One of the four Nordics has a free card today, and by merging these two caps, the free card limit will be 1715 kroner lower for those patients who had previously not had to deal with just one limit, but who had to fill out both free card amounts before they could get a free card. I am aware that the Progress Party has disagreed with the Right in this matter, but this is the Right Policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10205	The government of Erna Solberg chose to restrict Norwegian women’s abortion rights. This was the first time the abortion law was restricted over the 40 years it has been in place. So it was the Right and the Solberg that opened the dance about change. Norwegian women clearly informed the government of Solberg that this was not wanted, by taking to streets and squares throughout the country to protest. This year’s elections also provide a basis for liberalising the abortion law and reverse the changes made by the Solberg government. I have recorded that the representative Wilhelmsen Trøen has announced a fight to prevent liberalisation. I have a dream that the Right Party takes Norwegian women seriously and listens to the demand from the people that women's self-determination be respected. Women shall have the right of self-determination. Why does the representative Wilhelmsen Trøen want to hold on to such an over-the-counter to Norwegian women?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10214	The abortion law balances two incredibly important considerations: the consideration of the woman and the consideration of the foetus and the legal protection of the foetus. The abortion law we've had since 1978 has served us well, and we've been able to maintain this incredibly important balance. So when the representative Hussein says that our government opened a ball to discuss the abortion law, it's completely wrong. SV has said much earlier than this that they want an extended limit on self-determined abortion. It's quite natural, and we have to dare to discuss the abortion law. It's incredibly important, but the Right's position is clearly clear, and we don't have to start any rematch or fight. Our position is quite firm: today's abortion permit is established for us. It involves self-determination for the woman up to 12 weeks, which is incredibly important. It also means that we still want to have abortion subjects, because we believe it is important for the woman too when she is going to make a difficult choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10221	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10226	I would like to congratulate Norway on a new government, the ones that have been appointed as important positions, and not least all who have been given room in this Chamber. The new government, in cooperation with the Stortinget, will have all the prerequisites for delivering a new and fairer political course and development across the country, in line with what people have wanted. One of the important grips in the platform is that we jointly need to solve the transformation we're in. So the state has to play a more active role. The state is an important precursor and interacts because we use the Norwegian resources to create value for the benefit of the community. The Solberg government forgot the link between good business, especially in districts, and good business, there is a need for local communities to have the opportunity to facilitate housing and development. When communities feel that they are still under attack, it is not beneficial for local business to go well alone. The new government has a completely different understanding of the context, and it is shown in the platform. The history of Norway is a story of scattered settlements, large, scattered natural resources and people who saw the opportunity. We have now received a government that wants to build the whole country, which will bet on the opportunities available everywhere for increased value creation, ensuring that we get population development in all parts of the country. We have to improve the trade balance with the rest of the world. Increasing Norwegian exports is a clear goal for the government and the Central Party. This is how we finance our common well-being and ensure that people have a job to do. The central party's energy and industrial policy is based on nature. It also does the policy of the new government. Human activity in and use of nature necessarily leads to traces. It's about getting to the balance sheet. The business community also has a separate responsibility here. The world is increasingly demanding low-temperature products. Norwegian industrial environments have competence that is crucial in the conversion to low and zero emission solutions. Through a green industrial offensive, Norway can create jobs, secure the welfare of the future and help cut world emissions. In order to achieve all of this, it is important that we ensure better framework conditions, and that Norwegian natural resources, including for example: reasonable renewable energy remains a competitive advantage for Norwegian industry. I note that the government will contribute more to the development and scaling of industrial technology in Norway, for example. through a green State investment company. It's forward-looking. The capacity of the mains shall be increased throughout the country and the concessional period shall be reduced. These grips are crucial for the construction of new industrial workplaces. The government wants to make progress in creating an even larger industry around Norway as a space nation. I'm very happy about that, especially as a West Warrior. It's a race where the state has to be involved and contribute. We need to continue our efforts to simplify and reduce bureaucracy, while at the same time having good control procedures. The commercial and food industries are industries that ensure a high level of employment and jobs throughout the country. They contribute to living communities and urban and rural activities, while requiring better regulation. The chain memory must be reduced. The maritime industry that we see across the country is an important cornerstone of many communities and creates great values. The Government and the Central Party aim to facilitate further growth in the maritime sector, with Norwegian wage and working conditions and international competitiveness. That potential is great. We've got a government that sees the value of agriculture and forestry, what industries mean for jobs, preparedness and activity throughout the country. It will be an important task to close the income gap and ensure that we still have agriculture throughout the country. Soil protection is important in this context. Here we must be long-term and have a restrictive policy. A more offensive policy for the forest industry is also good industrial policy, good rural policy and, above all, good climate policy. The fishing industry is of major importance for the Norwegian economy, for value creation, exports, settlement and workplaces along the coast. The Government Platform focuses on the territorial policy objectives of fisheries legislation on employment and coastal communities. At the same time, there is a lot of work to be done to achieve all of these objectives. A new notification of allowances therefore needs to be put in place for an incredibly important industry for the whole country. At the same time, we shall continue to contribute to the development of an increasingly sustainable aquaculture industry that provides activity. Finally, nutrition policy is crucial to the success of the other policy objectives set by this government. I look forward to the next few years of good cooperation between government and big business to solve this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10264	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10269	I thought it was very nice to hear the representative Nordlund talk about nourishment in the districts, because in the nation yesterday we could read that the Rørosmeieriet warned more expensive milk after sudden cuts in the distribution grant. This is probably not surprising for the Centre Party, all the time the new platform provides for less competition and more monopoly in food and agricultural policy. What surprises me, however, is that it is not seen that increasing the level of monopoly will lead to more expensive and poorer offers for ordinary people, while also having a significant impact on the very business of the districts, such as the Q-Meieriene and the Rørosmeierieriet. At Røros, there are almost 50 jobs, and this decision can help centralize their jobs. So, therefore, to the representative Nordlund: will the Senterpartiet be involved in a more predictable solution for those who work at the Rørosmeieriet and the Q-Meieriene, than to stand firm to crack in place monopoly by cutting the entire distribution grant in just a few days?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10283	I would like to thank the representative for noticing that we have a forward-looking and offensive industrial policy, and that should really be lacking. It's true that a decision has been made in the directorate saying that you should remove the grant to the Rørosmeieriet and the Q-Meieriene, and we'll get back to what it might look like. But it is quite obvious to both the government and the Central Party that we need to look at how the chain of custody is regulated in this, and how the food industry is dealing with this. We will continue to facilitate the development of good local food producers, but this cannot be done at the expense of anyone paying for a few.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10290	The centre party has criticised what they have called a large-scale centralisation in recent years of post offices, county offices and other government offices, which have not necessarily employed many people in the communities, but where the centre party has stood on the barricades. Yesterday, the day after the Prime Minister's statement, the message came that Nortura, the farmers' own organisation, centralized and laid down two lines: on Steinkjer and on Forus. 79 ordinary people at Steinkjer lose their jobs. Unfortunately, I have not seen the Center Party stand on the barricades for these district jobs. Gharahkhani in the Workers' Party said in his speech that the centralisation of Nortura must now be brought to an end. Nortura's board of directors owes them to political framework conditions as to why they do this. What is the Central Party's plan to make Nortura turn around and maintain the 79 jobs on Steinkjer that are occupied by ordinary people?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10297	It is quite rightly observed that we have had a very centralizing government, which also the representative Sivert Bjørnstad has been part of. The Center Party has been critical of this with a lot of other people. It also shows the election result. With regard to the representative’s questions, this is what the Board of Directors of Nortura has decided, without the Central Party having had the opportunity to change, where appropriate, the framework conditions that led to this conclusion. On the other hand, the representative Sivert Bjørnstad has had full opportunity for the last eight years, but has not chosen to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10304	Gharahkhani and the Workers' Party say at Stortinget's pulpit to Nortura that centralisation must end – when the Workers' Party's representative says it, why can't the new head of the Centre's nutrition committee, Willfred Nordlund, join the same? The strange thing here is that the director of Nortura says that there are political framework conditions that make them have to do this cut. Well, can't you say what framework conditions you want to change to make Nortura turn around in this case and maintain the 79 jobs at Steinkjer? They were ordinary people who lost their jobs? I don't think there were many of the employees in Nortura on Steinkjer yesterday who felt that it was common people's turn. On the contrary!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10309	I think it's broken what's happening. I believe that Nortura should have examined the new political space and had a dialogue with the government. If that's going to happen in the future, I don't know. That's what's going to be the result if Nortura doesn't take responsibility for the development itself. When it comes to the question of what framework conditions the new government and we at Stortinget are going to bring in to prevent that kind of industrial centralization, I think the representative has a good opportunity to get involved in the platform's many measures to reduce the chain decay, so that it makes it easier for the big market regulators to do so at the same time as they are going to make money. Obviously, a private company has to make money. The fact that this happens under the conditions of the outgoing government is quite obvious – the consequence we now see with the decision of the Board of Directors in Nortura, unfortunately, has been made.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10316	Congratulations to the representative Myrli on his honorary position as Vice President of Stortinget, and also congratulates the representative Nordlund as head of the Economic and Social Committee. In the Right, we look forward to working with the Center Party in the Committee. My question after reading the platform, and in particular the issue of value creation and business, is related to a point that I hope the representative can really explain what it contains. It is linked to the point of exercising a State ownership instrument. What does that mean?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10323	The new government is quite clear that the state should become a larger and more active player in order to facilitate the new forward-looking industries. And it is quite clear that such investigations will come to the European Parliament for treatment — on which instruments we are going to use as a state for an active ownership policy. It is quite obvious that some of the ways in which the previous government has dealt with ownership policy have been that everything should be allowed to be as it has been. You're going to be allowed to control yourself. Unfortunately, we see the effect of it around. Some places are not kept to the industry you have, nor are you allowed to put in place new industries. Some good start-ups have been, but the state has to be an active contributor to the transition we're going into – and I look forward to being allowed to participate in the design.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10328	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10333	Over the last eight years, or perhaps seven of them in particular, the transport sector in Norway has experienced the upswing of times. With the Progress Party in the Ministry of Transport and as a decisive voice in the policy of transport, the Transport Budget has almost doubled compared to what the previous Red-Green Government left in 2013. Minister of Transport Nygård assumes responsibility for a department and a sector with a high level of activity. After two periods of vigorous road, rail, maritime and aerodrome investment, there are, of course, expectations for the continuation. It hardly surprises me that I think the Hurdal platform has its weaknesses, but there are actually parts of the content that also promise well – if the government delivers on it, well to notice. And President, I think you personally take care of being followed up! Already in the introductory part of the chapter on transport, it is considered that transport infrastructure binds Norway together and is crucial for settlement and jobs across the country. The transformation that we are facing, where society and our business community are to adapt to new markets and times, requires public action to maintain and strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian business. Good infrastructure in ports, airports and not least a good and safe road network must do so. Then we can secure value creation and provide jobs across the country. Priority should always be given to the most socio-economic projects. But what makes some projects more profitable than others? Well, that's exactly the use of the project. That is why funding is important. When it is invested in new road projects, we cannot introduce tolls, which reduce the use of the same projects and reduce profitability. The Progress Party is clear that public roads are a public responsibility. We believe that the infrastructure should be financed through the tax bill, as we also finance other important public tasks. Over the past eight years, the Progress Party as the only toll-only batch has reduced the use of tolls in road projects, where the toll share has fallen from 42 pst. of the Stoltenberg Government to 28 pst. with the Progress Party. Just since last year, we've secured $2.50. kr for the reduction and removal of tolls. So when the government writes on the platform that it will ‘investigate solutions that can replace tolls in the future’, I can, on behalf of the Progress Party and all the country’s drivers, provide you with the best solution without the need for costly and time-consuming investigation: replace the tolls with state full funding. Bets on the way have not only made sure that several roads have been built, but we have also improved the way they are built. The innovation New Veier AS has not only raised the ceiling for what is possible in the transport sector, they have also raised the floor by making whole processes both by themselves and by the state road system much better. New Roads alone have saved taxpayers for over 25 billion. kr and made sure that we get better roads faster, and that large sums have been released for other good purposes. Taking advantage of all the good tools it acquires, the new government has the good prerequisites for success. In May of this year, Stortinget took several decisions to lift the use of biogas and to ensure a level playing field between biogas, electricity and hydrogen. This decision led to a great deal of optimism in industry and, in view of the fact that several investment decisions were taken to set up both new production and equipment purchases. In the draft budget of the former government, they choose to respond to this decision by asking the Grand Duchy to depart from the same decision, because the effect of emission reductions is uncertain. It's amazing how vocally a person can treat biogas and an entire industry. If we are to succeed in reducing emissions, we simply have to use and exploit available technologies. I therefore hope that the new government will stand by the decision of May and reform the proposals of the previous government and ensure equal treatment of biogas with other zero-emission technologies.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10352	The President shall, at the invitation of Halleland, take care of a little of each, including: that the next speaker is Sveinung Rotevatn.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10358	If Norway is to succeed, we need a healthy economy, and we need a competitive business. Therefore, for many years, in opposition and position, Left has been working to implement a green tax change. By that we mean that it must pay to do more of what we want – create jobs, build strong businesses – and it must pay less to do what we want less, easily to pollute. Enterprises that get too high taxes are afraid to invest. Cheap fossil solutions are going to outrun the viable alternatives unless it costs to pollute. Or as the King read in the throne – in that, after all, this is also a debate about the throne: ‘The main measure is that the price of greenhouse gas emissions must rise.’; A green tax change was central to the bourgeois government. Regrettably, the Gahr Støre administration has opted for the opposite approach: taxes are to be raised so that job creation is less profitable, and climate taxes are to be reduced so that it pays more to defile itself. In the Hurdal Platform, the new government is clear that it will now increase taxes, even though the revenue from it will never come close to financing the promises made through the election campaign, but it was expected. What was a little more surprising was how weak the climate profile of this platform was actually. The bourgeois government's goal of getting a CO 2 price of NOK 2 000 by 2030 is also supported by this government. That's good. But one doesn't say anything about how fast a price should be set up, and the slower it goes, the less the climate effect becomes. And one will make exceptions for one of our greatest emission sources, that's road traffic. They will make it more expensive to buy environmentally friendly cars and will grant more exemptions for those who pay for their emissions. In short, one sees the green tax shift in reverses. And this makes the government under the heading «A fair climate policy». It sounds very nice – fair climate policy. Who could possibly be against it? The problem is that to date I have never heard anyone use the cover of ‘just climate policy’ without them using it for arguments to weaken a climate action. Electric cars shall be more expensive. That's fair. The fuel shall be cheaper. That's fair. The CO 2 fee shall benefit from more exemptions. That's fair. The fundamental challenge is that, in the absence of credible answers in climate policy, one tries to make much of climate policy a social policy. There's got to be a desire to do, because social policy is fine. The problem is that you have to get rid of it. The challenge is to resolve climate policy. If there is an unfair climate policy, emissions are rising, because nothing is more unfair than climate change. Rich countries and rich people have the greatest emissions. Poor countries and poor people have the lowest emissions, but experience the greatest consequences of climate change without control – with desertification, sea-slope, poorer conditions for agriculture, etc. A fair climate policy, as well as a functioning one, is also a climate policy that is non-discriminatory. One tonne of CO 2 is one tonne of CO 2 and when the government party in different settings will grant exemptions to the polluter pays principle – for the fishing industry, for waste incineration, for the greenhouse industry, for road transport – yes, it must mean that someone else will cut more instead, otherwise it will not go up. But who the others are, we never hear anything about that. I'm a little bit unsure if they exist. In that case, we're just left with one thing, and there's weak climate action, less climate change. A policy where the best lobbyists are to avoid being involved and pay for pollution, and the very best lobbyists, in addition, are to receive direct state aid and investment from the government, is not fair climate policy. There is also no effective climate policy, and at least there is no green policy. It's a big deal about this because it's nine years until 2030, and before that time we're going to cut out with 50-55 pst. Then I would say that there has been a heavy responsibility on the outgoing government, emissions have gone down, but they should have gone down even faster, and there is a heavy responsibility on the dwindling and no-sitting government, which should, we believe, rent this country to mid-2020s. Then one should be on a good path towards the 50-55 pst. And the more people get an exception to that skill, the harder it becomes to reach the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10392	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10397	It's good to see you back in the hall as a magnificent representative! In the coming years, we need more skilled workers and apprentices, and young people who choose a practical profession, also in order to achieve the objectives of cutting emissions. In this context, it is important that these people and workers meet a serious and decent working life in line with sustainability objectives 8, based on the decent work agenda of the ILO, and that social protection, dialogue between the social partners and rights at work are safeguarded. My question to the former climate minister and representative Rotevatn is: Should not the Left also be concerned with delivering on this part of the sustainability targets? And then I am thinking in particular about the sickness pay scheme, contributions to the AFP scheme and workers' employment protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10406	Just in my post I chose to talk about the need for the big green shift and CO 2 taxes, but I would like to answer other questions as well. When it comes to the need for skilled workers, I agree with the representative that we need more of them, and that we need a serious working life. The way to do this is to make sure that we have a high level of organisation, that we have serious public orderers, that we make sure to make demands, for example. to a user of apprenticeships. It's effective, it works. When it comes to the issue of different social security benefits, I can take the sickness scheme as an example. I'm here to have a safe and good health care system, but I'm not here to be the highest infirmary absence. We do, and it might have something to do with the fact that, as the only country I know, we have a hundred percent pay from day one. None of our neighbouring countries or other countries have, with your two lower sick leave. Of course, it may not have anything to do with each other, but everything I have read about research and public reports says otherwise.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10418	To follow up your answer to my question, representative: I think that how Norwegian businesses have handled the pandemic, and how workers have stayed at home to avoid spreading the infection, perhaps the litmus test is that today’s sickness pay scheme is a good health pay scheme for our country too. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10423	The President will remind you that all speeches are addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10428	Thank you for that, President! In an exceptional situation, we have implemented a number of exceptional measures and advice for employees, such as: that one should not go to work if one feels something close to illness, that one has long quarantine rules for people with respiratory infections, etc. I hope that the Labour Party does not think this should be the normal situation in Norwegian working life, that one has that kind of advice, that kind of practice. In that case, I could understand the question, but I don't believe the Labour Party means it. In a period of serious global pandemics, we have had a number of different exceptions with changed welfare arrangements, among others. rules on laying down rules on laying down rules on laying down sick leave, sick leave or whatever it may be. But what we need to talk about is what we do in a normal situation. The normal situation for Norway is that we have an unacceptablely high level of absenteeism. What do we do with that? What the Labour Party has wanted to do with it for very many years, there's nothing, and one doesn't want to talk about what all the researchers point to is part of the problem. The left says that we also have to be able to look at it, and I don't see anything wrong with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10435	I understand that the representative Rotevatn is not very concerned with sustainability target 8 and delivery on a decent working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10440	If the representative understands me that way, the representative has misunderstood fundamentally. I'm very busy with it. But neither the representative Sundnes nor the Workers' Party has a fait accompli about what a decent working life is. I think most of the other parties, not to say all of the other parties, here in the hall will disagree with them in. It is possible to have different approaches and different solutions to how to get more people to work and make sure that we can get even safer and better welfare arrangements. I think well when I joined the Labour and Social Committee in the period before the previous period – we made some changes in the work environment legislation into huge protests from the trade unions, the Labour Party and others. Now, when I read the government statement, there's not much left of those protests. On the contrary, most of the changes have been accepted, including in the case of average working time calculation, because one may have seen that this had something in common anyway. The fact that there are others outside the Workers' Party who have good ideas about what gives a decent and safe organized working life, I will actually dare to claim. I didn't even think it was a bold statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10449	Rotevatn said that the green shift must pay off. There are also other things that must have profitability in them, and I will come back to that. In 2016, the Centre Party and the Left joined forces on agricultural policy and communication when it was said to facilitate active agriculture throughout the country, with a corporate structure based on local land, grazing, forest and land resources. We also agreed that the Norwegian agricultural model has been largely successful, based on import protection, cooperative market organisations, the negotiating institute and a property policy to ensure the farmer himself. In the treatment of this gross domestic product, the Left was also prepared to produce food in Norway. The Hurdal Declaration states that we should close the income gap between agriculture and other groups through a binding and temporal plan. Is the ambitions of the Left from 2016 – that food production in Norway should be profitable – and will you join such a stepping-up plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10458	Yes, it's going to be profitable to produce food in Norway, and there's every reason to believe that it's actually, all the time Norway produces huge amounts of food. In fact, we are self-sufficient times – at least if you also consider fish to be food, this representative does – as well as having had a positive agricultural development over several years through agricultural decisions of the previous government. It has to do with the fact that one sees a lower rate of closure of use than the last time one saw the Central Party steered the policy – that's positive. One sees that one has a good salary in a number of ways – that's good. We would also have had an agricultural policy for existing years that would have contributed to a positive income development that the representative is looking for. Unfortunately, there was a violation by organisations of what else was a record climate-friendly item with significant funds for important environmental and climate schemes in agriculture. I believe that the Left and the Centre share part of these women in Norwegian agricultural policy. I guess I'm told that we're waiting excitedly for the promise fulfillment for the next four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10466	The cord shift is over. Before the next speaker is given the floor, after this change of line, the President will recall the provision of the Rules of Procedure that the lines of procedure should be related to the text held.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10473	This year's Grand Prix gave a historic mandate to a new government in Norway, and the new Workers' Party-Center Party government has presented us with a platform that sets us on a fairer course. The election campaign brought out the conflicts of interest. The right most concrete election vow was great wealth tax code, while the Workers' Party and the other parties that wanted government change prioritised the interests of ordinary people. Now, when we get to the job session, it's certain that there's a lot of work ahead of us. Differences have increased, too many young people are not going to work, and not least we need to have a strong cut in greenhouse gas emissions. These challenges are so huge that we have no choice but to meet them together, not each of us. Great transformations and societal leaps do not come about by themselves or by some magical market mechanism. No, great promise comes when we build on and strengthen the best of Norway: trust in each other, an organized working life, a strong and common welfare state and world-leading industry. In the new government platform, belief in the power of politics really comes to the fore. The law shall be strengthened in order to ensure the rights of workers with full and permanent posts. District Norway shall be committed to concrete measures, not to be centralised. Industry shall be developed with emissions reductions and new jobs and welfare shall be strengthened. The welfare state was not completed in 1970 or 1990 or 2010, well-being needs to be extended even in the 2020s. There are major unsolved tasks in primary health services, public hospitals and the school, to mention something. It is a prerequisite that must be at the bottom of us who believe in the power of politics to change society. We must keep the economy in order and conduct a responsible economic policy. This is, of course, established in the Hurdals platform, where the first chapter after its introduction has been given the striking title ‘Safe economic governance and fair distribution’. The objective of economic policy is not economic growth itself, but economic growth that brings work, redistribution and well-being. In particular, financial policy should be conducted in line with the Paris Agreement and our emissions targets, and we should receive annual climate obliging budgets in the context of the State budget. With the Progress Party in government, the fees in Norway increased by 6 billion. kr. With the right in government, the property tax was cut by about 10 billion. kr. The voters clearly rejected this policy at the time of the year's elections. Now there is predictability and justice: predictability by the fact that the total level of taxes and taxes on people's income is fixed and that corporate tax remains unchanged throughout the period; fairness by paying with incomes below DKK 750 000 less tax, while those who earn a lot have to pay a little more. The same thing they have to do with large assets, by making the wealth tax fairer, among other things. by increasing the deduction from base and by valuing shares and commercial property in line with the 2016 tax settlement. I started my post by giving the autumn election results a historic mandate for a new direction in Norway. We in Stortinget have an important role to play in managing that mandate. We, who represent the government parties in this room, want a good cooperation with all the parties on the Stortinget and will seek to form a majority of the budgets together with SV. Our country goes into a decade that will determine Norway's position in a world of rapid change. Climate targets are to be met, differences are to be reduced, and more people are to be employed. To this end, hard work and good cooperation in Stortinget are required among all of us who have been entrusted with the responsible task of representing our electoral districts during this process.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10492	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10497	First of all, I must congratulate the representative Eigil Knutsen on an important role as chairman of the Financial Committee, and I look forward to good cooperation in that committee. I have also read on the Hurdal platform, and it seems that the understanding of active industrial policy by the Workers' Party and the Centre is synonymous with increased state ownership. At the same time, there is a policy of weakening private ownership through increased taxation of Norwegian ownership in Norwegian enterprises. Then there is also a wording in the platform that allows the state to establish and buy up in strategically important parts of Norwegian business. It could be interesting to see what the representative Knutsen puts in ‘strategicly important parts of Norwegian business’, which is good enough for the Workers’ Party and the Centre party to actually invest the country’s money there.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10504	First of all, thank you for the congratulations, and I will send them back to the representative for joining the main committee of Storting. I look forward to that cooperation. Fortunately, the local representative has read the Hurdal platform, and we appreciate that. It adds up to a more fair tax system. Norway has very low capital taxation overall, compared with other OECD countries. The tax system has become more unfair and less redistributive during the Right Government period, and we want to do something about that. So it's not an end in itself for neither the Workers' Party nor the Center Party to increase state ownership, but we're not afraid to use state ownership as an instrument to achieve any goals. But there may also be partnerships with industry, and there may be specific emissions targets for individual sectors. And then, of course, we're going to come back to Stortinget if it's time to buy up in individual companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10513	Now we already have quite a large state ownership in Norway. Further expansion may also have an impact on private ownership, at least when combined with taxing private ownership in Norwegian-owned enterprises — and Norwegian-based jobs — harder than the previous government. I just want to drill a little bit further into this, because the representative didn't say anything about what types of strategic areas they see fit to use state ownership. That's interesting, not least for the outside world and for those out there: in what areas are the Workers' Party and the Centre seeing to it that one is going to use the state ownership ahead?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10520	In the case of the tax system, the place refers all the way to private ownership, but it's mainly about shares and commercial property, which Right went to the choice to cut taxes further. And as I was in the midst of a line change earlier today, it is very little in the development of the Norwegian economy that indicates that it is burningly necessary to add 3 billion. kr to tax cuts for owners of commercial property in the country. Furthermore, cut taxes on wealth also seem centralizing – there is money paid into and around the very largest cities; it is not along the coast, as someone wants to make it. So to state ownership and where to take advantage of it: No, we're going to come back to that. The Hurdal platform also provides for some investigations. But it's clear that, for example, within the energy conversion we are about to undergo, it may be necessary and desirable.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10527	The representative talked about that now was the common people's interests that were to come first. Then I have a question about active enterprise policy. It is an example of an enterprise that invested heavily in Eidskog Municipality, an enterprise with a solid economy and good annual results. They're investing 300 million. NOK, but I've got 5.8 million. kr from Enova, 45 mill. NOK from Innovation Norway, and the municipality itself has entered with 44 million. kr, despite the fact that they knew that at that time there are likely to be consequences for new swimming pools, new gyms and new fire stations – that is, active industrial policies leading to a decline in the provision of services to ordinary people. Does the representative Knutsen think that it is a good example of active enterprise policy when the consequence is that the service provision to ordinary people is getting worse?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10532	I do not know the example and must honestly admit that I did not fully understand the context either. When the Workers' Party and the Centre agree to pursue a more active industrial policy, we see that the passive industrial policy that has been pursued over the last eight years has not given the conversion of the Norwegian economy that our country needs. We need it to achieve the emission targets, we need it to get more young people to work, and we need it to make Norway take a position in the energy transition we're about to undergo. And there I would like to encourage the representative, Mr Steffensen, whom I would like to congratulate on being a member of the financial committee for this period, to think again about this with active industrial policy. For one thing, if one is not very concerned about reaching Norway’s climate commitments, it will in any case be a major change. Demand for Norwegian oil and gas will fall, and Norway will have to be positioned in the race that is now taking place in Europe. Today’s government will put everything in place for Norway to be well positioned in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10537	Let me also start by congratulating the representative Knutsen on the leadership of the committee. I look forward to good cooperation and think we'll have fun. Then the representative says in his post that it is very important now that we are able to keep order in the Norwegian economy. That's obvious right. But then the question is, what does that mean? Well, an important part of keeping order in the Norwegian economy is for example. ensuring that one has a responsible use of oil money within the framework of the rule of action. The previous government was going to put forward a good deal of government budget, and I believe that every fall, about the minute the budget was presented, the Labour Party was out and thought that too much oil money was being spent. They didn't say anything about it this year when the government budget was presented. What I'm asking is, is if it was just a forgetfulness and randomness, or if the Worker's Party thinks that one might use a little bit at least of the oil money now, or if one has hit the plank perfectly. How do we keep order in the Norwegian economy with the oil money industry in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10544	I would also like to congratulate the representative, Mr Rotevatn, on joining the Committee on Finance and the Financial Affairs of the Left, and also on the election as a newly elected representative of the electoral district of Hordaland, so we are colleagues there too. With regard to the use of oil money, there has been an abnormal situation over some time. The Koron apanda hit us. Before the Coronapandemic, the Workers' Party and almost one opposition in Stortinget have thought that the Solberg government with Siv Jensen in the Finance Minister's chair has spent too much oil money in good times. It's quite unique for Norway, but there are several opposition parties, including the Workers' Party, who are proposing to spend less oil money in our alternative budgets. Now we're on our way out of the crisis. The use of oil money is still significant, it is 80 billion. kr higher next year than it was in the previous normal budget, but we will return to the additional number in November with exact oil money usage.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10552	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10557	It is good that we finally got a new government. A new government should also mean new policies. It is good to read a government platform that determines that balancing economic and social differences is important to promote public health. In the next round, it should have an obligation to balance those differences. When teeth are not treated as the rest of the body, it is in practice suggested that the differences in society are reflected in the public’s dental health. When people have to pay several thousand dollars to drill, the consequence is that people who have bad advice are not able to meet their dental needs. Today, public teeth are raining as part of your body only until you reach the age of 18. It is good that the government will now increase its age by a few years and that support schemes should be strengthened. But it can't really be all the government thinks it can do in four years, because it doesn't help the vast majority of the population at all, and then we don't get a dental reform for most people either. If we're going to bring down the differences and do what is needed to ensure dental care for everyone, the government can't hesitate on the Right Tax Cut to the nation's richest. Then we don't get the dental reform that is needed either. A gradual increase in corporate tax, i.e. the tax paid by the profits of the company, can provide enough to fully finance a dental reform that makes dental health free of charge for everyone within four years. One percent a year, from today's 22pst. to the previous level of 27 pst., would give the missing government. In fact, it has to be the turn of ordinary people, because ordinary people are also Siw and Siri who have lived with suffering and pain, and who cannot afford to pay the dental bill. Siw Iren Nyborg described it as follows: “I remember sitting on a bench outside the dentist’s office, with a bill of $7,000 I had no way to pay. Then I thought that everything was hopeless." The question is really whether the government can be hoping for ordinary people sitting on a bench outside the dentist's office with pain and suffering and with a dental bill they can't pay. It is high time for a dental reform to equalise dental care with other health services. One would think that a government claiming to be too common people chose to listen to the trade unions and the local population over paid directors, but in practice they do the opposite by laying down Ullevål Hospital. It's very serious for not only the hospital services for people in Oslo, but also for half of Norway's population. They want to split the emergency environment on Ullevål into two, sell the hospital plot to private speculators, and then they'll build high blocks on a land that's too small. Professionals clearly say that they need all the specialists gathered under one roof, as it is on Ullevål today, to save lives in the event of disasters, major accidents or in the worst case terrorist attacks. The government should at least listen to these professionals. With today's plans, it is also not clear when or if Aker Hospital can become a local hospital for the whole of Groruddalen, including the districts Stovner and Grorud. If this government is serious about Aker becoming a local hospital for the whole of the Grorud valley, the plans need to be changed. I guess the government knows that, too, especially the Center Party – we have, after all, warned about the same thing several times before. There is a very great need for mental health, but the government is still going in to wind up Gaustad Hospital and move the patients to a building with built-in skyscraper at the Sinsen Cross. Implementation of these health plans means that the Centre Party is dredging on municipal autonomy and that the Workers' Party is not listening to the trade unions. This is contrary to how the government parties make up their own minds. But let's be clear: we're not giving up this fight. If the government seriously violates the right policy in the hospital case, and if it had the courage to tax the rich, so that it could afford a real dental reform, then today we could deal with a government statement with several ambitions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10577	Work on all and safety of the labour force has always been a major concern of the Workers' Party. After a year and a half with closures, layoffs and redundancies on the one hand and extreme workload and staff shortages on the other, labour policy is highly topical. The Norwegian and Nordic models are based on high levels of organisation and strong professional organisations. It has given Norwegian employment high productivity and a unique competitive advantage. Our society is characterised by high trust, small differences and great adaptability. On the way out of the corona pandemic, we unfortunately see that the Norwegian model is under pressure, despite the way our society is organized, seen as an important explanation of why Norway has succeeded better than most other countries in dealing with the pandemic. Yesterday, employees of SAS stood and demonstrated against their own employer in front of Stortinget. It made the impression to see them standing there with the uniform on the clasp and the crew-bag on the ground. Why did they do that? Yes, because they have been asked to apply for their own jobs. This only underlines what we have said: there is a need for large-scale cleaning in the workplace. The government will strengthen tripartite cooperation. By working together strategically and more committedly, we are equiped to meet the major challenges Norway faces in the years ahead. Therefore, we will renew and strengthen tripartite cooperation and give it considerable responsibility in areas such as development of competences, sustainability and increased exports. The social partners shall be represented in all relevant government committees. We're going to develop the world of work and society together. We will launch more measures to increase the level of organisation. We have promised to double the union deduction, and we are happy to deliver on it. In order to strengthen the rights of workers, we will reintroduce a collective right of action to prevent illegal hiring and the crime of working life. We want to improve the law to ensure that employers cannot organise themselves away from the responsibility they have for their employees. We will remove general access to temporary employment and limit the scope and role of the manpower industry. Under the right-hand government, the differences between people have increased, and those are the least initially, which are hit hardest by the unsocial cuts of the previous government. A stronger link to working life is the most important way out of poverty, but we also need to have a safety net as monks when you don't have health to work. But what does it mean to have a strong connection with the world of work? Because it actually doesn't have to have a job if it doesn't give you a salary to live on. Permanent full-time jobs shall be the general rule in Norwegian working life. In some families, you also have a double part-time job, where your parents may work in each of their part-time jobs, for example. care and care or trade, which are the most part-time industries. It is exhausting to have to hunt guards to get a wage to live off, but it is also exhausting to be called every time you are free, because there is a crew crisis at work. Many people get a bad conscience when they say no to that phone. I will bring forward two important steps this government will take to ensure that work becomes a real way out of poverty. We will set up a low-income commission with the participation of the social partners and follow up the conclusions of political action to reduce income disparities in Norway. It can't be that they keep pulling away from the top. We will implement a full-time commitment, in close cooperation with municipalities, health companies and the social partners. We want to strengthen the right of preference for an increased position and the right to full time in the law, by demonstrating that there is a need for a part-time job. It is too easy now to reveal small job breaks to get the cabal to go up, at the employee's expense. We have great ambitions for the world of work. We will create more jobs and ensure that more people are included. Too many people are being excluded, and the increase in the number of young people has to be reversed. We're going to do this by focusing on measures and arrangements that get people to work, and we have great ambitions for Nav and how people who are sick or in crisis meet the welfare state when you need it. Finally, I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate everyone with an important position as a big representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10594	In 2014, the Minister for Oil and Energy of the Progress Party, Tord Lien, stated that it was a target with a higher electricity price and that the foreign tables would help to achieve that goal. In addition, the right-hand government has annually increased the electricity charge by 50 pst. collected during its period. I am glad that today we can see that the time is now over when the government deliberately worked for higher power prices for people and industry. The Hurdal platform states that climate and energy policy should be social and fair. We have now received a government that will further develop what has been one of the country's and industry's greatest competitive advantages for decades, namely reasonable and sufficient power. At a time when we need to reduce climate change emissions, our power has gained enough competitive advantage, namely that it is renewable. Of course, that means electrifying society where we can, but it will also be important and crucial in the transition from an oil and gas-powered economy to a renewable economy, where the market demands the lowest possible emissions in production. Then we can't face a situation where we don't get new start-ups, and – even worse – where existing industry flags out because the power price is too high and too unpredictable. The Hurdal platform states that we need an overall plan for Norwegian power generation, regardless of the energy source. It is essential for people and industry to continue to be present in the future throughout our long-term country. I am also pleased that the time when climate policy was thought to be static and uniform – one size fits all – is over. If we are to succeed in climate change and achieve our climate goals, the measures must be adapted to the reality we live in, whether it is here in Oslo, in Atna or in Sørøya. Policies must help to build up, not to increase, the social and geographical differences. Everyone must be given the opportunity to make climate-friendly choices, regardless of their economy and their place of residence. For business, the government is betting on partnership. We have a great potential in the transition of different industries to achieve the climate objectives. The challenge is not to break the neck of the different industries until you change. There is therefore a need for different approaches and different approaches. For some, a high CO 2 tax would be nice to bear; for others, compensation schemes, contracts or tax reductions are needed. In order to meet the country’s and agriculture agreement on the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in agriculture, new tools are needed. The main new tool launched by the government is the establishment of Bionova, a financing mechanism to support climate action in agriculture. If we ensure a successful conversion here that does not weaken the Norwegian self-sufficiency rate, we can also be a precursor nation that can export climate technology and climate solutions to food producers and farmers around the world. The Hurdal Platform also states that public procurement and acquisitions should weigh climate and environment by a minimum of 30 pst. or more. It'll be a giant engine for business conversion. The platform is the most ambitious platform on circular economy ever. The government will have a reusable strategy for public activities and review and modify its disposal instructions so as to facilitate the re-use of its property and assets. A new and improved circular economy action plan shall be established with concrete and targeted measures to reduce waste and to ensure increased recycling industry and trade based on recyclable resources in Norway. The government will also work to provide consumers and purchasers with information on the amount of resources used to create a product, the amount of emissions involved, any harmful pollutants and how working conditions are for those who make it. Provision shall be made for products to be labelled with information on how to repair, reuse and recycle them. These are strong ambitions that facilitate more use and less waste. The centre party is in a proud administration tradition. That means that, through sustainable use, we're going to leave the globe in better condition than it was when we took over it. The Hurdal platform supports the belief that man will sustainably reap the resources of nature, rather than static and formalistic protection. It's a value in itself that the whole country comes into use, where we have the freedom to choose for ourselves where we want to live our lives. The field of energy and the environment is a broad field, but closely linked. In Norway, we all need to meet the climate objectives, while managing huge natural resources in the energy sector. This government is in favour of precautionary measures, but is also a technology optimist in terms of sea winds, CCS and other major grips. The Hurdal platform forms the basis for a new industrial journey based on outstanding competence and technology, Norwegian resources and raw materials. I am happy the country has got a new course, and a course that does not just leave climate and environmental policy to the market.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10625	For eight years, the government of Solberg worked systematically to include more – to give more opportunities to participate, to contribute and to create what we are going to live on, what makes our welfare systems possible to finance. We focused on the big problems. We spent the majority of our space of action on strengthening the local economy and investing in the future through knowledge, transport and tax relief, in line with the intention of the rule of action. With early efforts, we have made sure that children with additional needs receive better support already in kindergarten. With free core time in kindergarten for low-income families and increased child-responsiveness, we have significantly raised the economy to small children's families, especially those who have the least. We have worked for a safe and sustainable Norway with opportunities for everyone. The government of Solberg saw how solving the major challenges in society was linked. We were also able to think again, even after many years of government. For example, in the budget for next year, we are proposing: a new job deduction that may give them under 30 years of age with low or medium incomes more than NOK 5000 lower tax. This is a targeted tax relief that will motivate young people in the start-up phase with low income to work more. We are also proposing to reduce the rate of excise duty on those with the lowest income. It'll make it more profitable for many people to work, whether you're young or old. In his speech earlier today, the Reichmor Aasrud of the Workers' Party thought that I do not know who the common people are. Then I would like to remind the Workers' Party that ordinary people have children in private kindergartens. Ordinary people have their kids in school and want a good teacher. Ordinary people have mental disorders and want to be able to decide where to get treatment. Ordinary people are older people who want to decide who will come home to them and wash them when they themselves can't do it anymore. Ordinary people think it's pretty good to keep a little bit more of their own money. These are ordinary people who have forgotten the Workers' Party and the Center Party. There are ordinary people who are to be dominated by a very common state in the usual style of the Workers' Party. The left side went high under the bourgeois government with descriptions of Differs-Norway and ususial cut, but in the Hurdal platform there is very little concrete about this. The new government statement consists of many expensive ideas and poor solutions, such as the creation of several county municipalities, municipalities and county councils. This is not a statement that responds to the major challenges facing Norway. The Labour Party and the Centre have had eight years in opposition to find out what they want with Norway, eight years to define a political project. What they have now presented shows that they are not clear. The government writes that it is to carry out a trust reform. However, in the same document, it shows zero confidence that students who are going to pursue higher education can choose the school that best suits them. It also does not show confidence that patients, especially those who are struggling with drug abuse and mental illness, can choose a treatment offer that is appropriate for them. Maybe it just trusts government employees? No then, it has zero confidence in the board of directors of the North University, which has decided to drop the teaching site at Nesna. That decision is centralized to Oslo. The government also has zero confidence in the courts, which do not want the reform of the courts to be reversed, as the government is now legislating. Nor does the government show confidence in the police, who are now going to have Länsmann's offices they don't want. The major government lacks answers to the major challenges facing Norway. Now, the Big Government will first propose changes to our proposal for a State budget and then negotiate a final agreement with the Socialist Left. The problem for Støre is that when he doesn't stick out any clear direction himself, it becomes up to the cooperation parties to do it for the government. It's going to be very interesting to see how far to the left SV is able to drag the government. Perhaps all of this is why representatives of the government parties here today, and perhaps the special representatives of the Workers' Party, are more concerned with talking about the old Solberg government than with showing enthusiasm for their own new government project. The great words that came into the election campaign have now become a little bit finer, a little bit more inaccurate wording in a government statement. I notice that and look forward to seeing the concrete proposals where you will follow up on all the fine things they write about, for example. the energy policy of this Government declaration.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10646	In the media and in this debate, the right has been concerned about saying that the pandemic is over. That's not it, and we'll notice the afternoon for a long time. I would rather say that we are facing major problems. I am particularly concerned about sport, culture and volunteering. In the pandemic coolant, they must be rebuilt and reinforced. This is the backbone of Norway, which is where the gathering points that create cohesion in the local environment are – across cultural, ethnic and social backgrounds and across ages. The pandemic has weakened these safe communities. The strength of the environments and community they represent is weakened. The right in the government must take its share of responsibility. They introduced some of the most stringent measures in this sector, and the backbone of Norway, those who are just living by bringing people together, was shut down. The Latitude was sacrificed, and the rules that followed were chaotic – as for Viking Football at home in Stavanger, where the men's team got to play, while the women's team did not get to. Cultural life was strangled, restrictions led to the doors being closed, the halls had to be emptied and activities cancelled. The dialogue was bad, the council was behind, and the feedback I've heard most is that the Right and Government don't understand. The rules were completely wrong. The impact of that policy is now being seen. The long-term price of government approach can be high. In 2020, the Norwegian Sports Association lost 178 000 members. The sport is now reporting disappearing players, the layers that need to be laid down, and the voluntary support device and trainers disappear. Only in Rogaland have over 100 youth teams in the football that were registered before the start of the season, now withdrawn. In cultural life, uncertainty is high in terms of whether the audience will return — and what consequences this will have on the diversity of competences that has existed. Most critical of all is that it is often those who need the most community, who disappear first – the children who have fought against the outside world all their life but who found their community in the handball team or in the rock band. The answer is as simple as it is difficult: the backbone, the strong communities, must be repatriated. Fortunately, we have a new government that will meet the challenges of stronger Community solutions. We are already in the process: the Minister for Labour and Inclusion has extended the crisis arrangements. It will mean a lot to cultural life and are important arrangements. We need to strengthen the initiatives of the sector itself, such as the campaign #retroactivity under the direction of the Norwegian Sports Federation, a nationwide campaign to get more people back to sport. Not least, we need to increase ambitions; in the Hurdal platform, there are great ambitions on behalf of both sport, cultural life and volunteering in Norway. To take a few examples: we will introduce regional cultural funds, strengthen regional film betting, create a national sports facilities plan, secure free loans for training and leisure equipment in municipalities, and, not least, provide full VAT compensation for volunteering, which will mean more money in cash to over 20,000 voluntary organisations around the country. I am also pleased that we are about to start a new cultural promise, which is particularly about regional and local culture. In a society where we have the whole world available through a few screen shots, where everything we see and consume of Norwegian content, competes with the global in an eternal dance, we just have to fend off the art and culture we have in Norway, its self-value. I don't think we can get bigger, but we can be the best. That is why I am pleased that the new Workers' Party-Center Party government has presented a statement that will provide Norway with a new and fairer course in which the safe communities of sport, culture and volunteering are to be repatriated. Now is the turn of ordinary people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10661	Norway has had a right-wing government for eight years, with centralisation as its target number one. There has been a government that has led to greater differences between people, and now it is a pleasure finally to debate a new government platform, which points to a new and better course for the whole country. The people showed us at the election that they are so deeply ready to change direction. District policy must be strengthened and renewed. The time for interrogation and overrun is over, and we are going to create a basis for good life throughout the country. In the Nordic region, the Workers' Party and the Center Party, the new government parties, were given a majority on the bench with five out of nine representatives, and the old government partners were halved their crew. They only received two out of nine representatives from the Nordic countries. This clearly shows that today's government options have broad support in my constituency. I look forward to receiving a big message about district policy, where recommendations made by the Norman Committee and the district industry committee are being followed up. Many of the recommendations are actions that the Centre Party has been working for too long and that have now been fixed on the Hurdal platform. Ferries are free of charge for communities without road connections and connected with less than 100000 passengers, and they become more affordable for others. It shall be compensated for choosing green solutions for ferries and speedboats. The fishing ports and the FOT routes remain state-owned. The prices of the flight tickets on the short-haul network shall be reduced and the number of take-offs shall be increased. The ice-cream industry must be ensured in order to ensure orderly conditions in which customers are safe and drivers can live off the job. Social dumping in the transport sector is to be combated and investment in transport is to strengthen Norwegian enterprises with Norwegian wage and working conditions. High-capacity internets shall be equal to electricity and mobile coverage shall be significantly improved where people live and travel, on land and at sea. The centre party will secure people in this country enough and safe food produced on Norwegian resources. This means that the field must be used for grazing for both pure and buffalo, and the Senter Party will face a more restrictive predatory policy over the next four years, as established in the current political platform. The local administration and regional predators must be strengthened. The challenges of reindeer and agriculture grazing are many places in the country. I visited, for example. a sheep farmer in Redås in Salt this summer. He lost 130 animals last year. This year it seems to be 190 animals. The jerven, gaupa, and the right-hand government's quivering weight of the predatory game agreement make it impossible for it to continue its operation. We must have a more restrictive predatory policy, and we shall have it in place, even if it may take some time to turn around after the predatory game has been the main target of the two-part objective for a number of years. All twelve reindeer districts in the Northland last year were in charge of a statement where they say: ‘We have one major common concern — the future of reindeer management in Northern Ireland. The production and yield of sewage treatment plants has been gradually reduced over several years. In recent years, negative developments have accelerated. Now we are at a crossroads – economically, operationally and culturally. As reindeer workers, we want to produce food for people, not just for predatory game." Red meat is a delicacy that people want. The cleaning industry is an industry, but it is also a bearer of Sami culture and tradition. Now the slaughter outlets are getting smaller and smaller. Yet, the reindeer declines in most districts of Northern Ireland. Even adult and viable animals are killed and injured by predators. The first district is now being destroyed this year. It can't go on like that. There are therefore many cleanup jobs that remain after the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10689	Like several others, I would like to be allowed to congratulate the new government on accession and the state councils on their responsible tasks. From the Right, we're going to be a constructive opposition. We are going to work with the government where it is based, and where we are going to find good solutions to take care of Norwegian interests. But we're also going to challenge the government where it's necessary. After reading through the Hurdals platform, there is little doubt that many of the analyses on which it is based are correct and shared by several parties in this room, for example: that the world is marked by more unrest and unforeseeableness – it is a topic we have discussed in Stortinget in the last eight years – and that Norwegian foreign policy should take care of Norwegian interests, Norwegian security and Norwegian values in a world marked by more unrest and unforeseeableness. In several areas of the declaration, it is therefore quite surprising that there is relatively little coherence between the analysis and the conclusion or policy presented. There's a fresh Minister of Defence on the way to the NATO Defence Minister's meeting right now. It is always a baptism of fire because the meeting naturally always lies just a few days after a government change. But with it in the luggage, the fresh Minister of Defence has got a point on the Hurdal platform that is about Norway participating as an observer at the Conferences of the States Parties to the Prohibition Treaty. This is a rather incomprehensible point for me all the time both the Stortinget and the Workers' Party have clearly refused both to sign and to ratify the Treaty. It is incomprehensible to me because it must necessarily create reactions among close allies that Norway participates as an observer, apparently without any other goal than to do just that, because, as many from the government have said, there is no goal either to sign or to ratify. It is a treaty that the Storing has discussed in depth, and the two major weaknesses of the Treaty, in addition to its being contrary to our NATO obligations, are that it does not have strong verification mechanisms – it has against weak verification mechanisms – and there are no nuclear weapons states that are part of the Treaty. So it's not possible to get rid of a single nuclear warhead without the nuclear powers involved. That is why the work of the previous government has spent a great deal of time and resources, namely the verification and management of two expert groups in this area, a work that is moving forward and that should also be given priority by the current government. I am also surprised at another point in the government statement. I am pleased that the government determines that the EEA Agreement is in place. I also think it should just be missing. This is Norway’s main international agreement. It is an agreement that ensures Norwegian jobs, which ensures housing in districts and is incredibly important for value creation and well-being in Norway. However, it is all the more strange that the government wants to contribute to the potential undermining of the EEA Agreement through the point in the declaration that ‘as soon as possible’ should be contacted by the EU in order to ensure Norway’s exemption from parts of the EU’s fourth railway package. There is nothing on which parts of the railway package are involved. Nor is there anything about what to expect is the consequences of this, and I expect the Storting to be updated and informed quickly if the government goes to the EU with a proposal to do just that. It is not just procedural either. All EEA countries – that is, all EU countries plus Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein – must agree on such a change if appropriate. Then there are many things in the platform that are recognizable, and I would particularly like to highlight as positive that the government attaches great importance to the cooperation with close European allies and with Nordic countries. This is something that we from the previous government also prioritised. We started work in 2014 to strengthen our cooperation with, among others. Germany, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and France as well as the Nordic countries on both foreign, defence and security policy. But I think it is strange that the government has not chosen to highlight in the US declaration as our main ally and as our security guarantor in NATO. I think the government statement had been very good at that, especially when you send the Minister of Defense to Brussels with a luggage full of things that can create problems against our close allies.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10710	I'm usually a gentle guy, and that's what I'm going to keep on being, as opposed to some red-green politicians eight years ago. Then there were many bitter and a little sour posts from this pulpit. I will spend a lot of my speaking time on promises in the government statement that we agree on, and that we actually have great expectations that the government will deliver on. However, I have to start by saying that of course it is part of the statement that we are dissatisfied with. Eliminating free treatment options will lead to a lower public offer to patients. It will particularly affect the treatment provision of mentally ill and drug addicts. But we'll have enough opportunity to discuss that later in this room. Now I'm going to talk about some of the areas where we have great expectations that the government is actually going to deliver on. Norway is a delay in approving new medicines. Those affected are very ill patients who die prematurely and suffer unnecessarily. These patients now have high expectations that the promises contained in the declaration will be fulfilled. The government promises that the processing time will decrease and that users and professionals will have a stronger voice. I hope that the Minister of Health will listen to what her colleague Kjersti Toppe has said about today's system, when the government will follow up this promise. The main problem is that hospital directors decide which medicines are approved. Tope said earlier that it would be like the belly that fits the oat sack. It is the economy of the health business that determines, not the need for the individual. I totally agree with that, and I know that everyone who is now waiting for drugs they need to get a decent life, too, is. Our skilled health workers also have – rightly – good reason to have high expectations of the government’s promises. Norway is currently experiencing a health crisis. It's because we have a deficit of competent health workers who want to work in health care. The Government promises to increase the number of places of study in health education and to make proposals to train, recruit and maintain health professionals. The party of progress is very impatient. It will take several years for us to see the results of several places of study. It is also immoral for a rich country to rely on other countries to train the health workers we need, especially when the WHO estimates that the world lacks 6 million nurses and health professionals. Earlier this year, together with the current government parties, we decided that the government budget for the next year would propose several health training courses. The previous government did not, and the Progress Party expects this government to deliver on what they voted for earlier this year. The government statement has also given many older expectations that it will be committed to care for the elderly. An activity guarantee for the elderly, better nutrition and a stepping-up plan for good staffing in the care of the elderly are some of the promises that we will of course put behind us. However, the government does not address the main problem of today’s care for the elderly, namely that it is the municipality that is responsible for the operation. The government also has many other precious promises on behalf of the municipalities, which are also to be financed by the increased transfers to the municipalities that are promised. I fear that local politicians will continue to deprioritise the elderly when the budgets are to be adopted, as we have seen many examples around the municipality of Norway. I look forward to constructive cooperation with the government. I hope that the government will be able to deliver on all its promises in the field of health, but be safe, we will be on guard and like a fire fighting like a bear, to ensure that those who need care, care and treatment will get the best offer, with freedom of choice, without the individual's wallet deciding.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10731	Norway has received a new government and a political platform showing a new course, a change in course that will benefit ordinary people. So under the right-hand government, the social health inequalities in Norway have increased. It's dramatic. The wallet and education determine to an even greater extent how long you can expect to live, and with how much sickness, pain and suffering. It's fundamentally unfair, and it's a challenge I'm glad the Big Government is going to tackle, with measures that we know work. In particular, we will give priority to children and young people. We know that prevention and health promotion work is the right medicine to ensure good health for everyone. And here the community is going to set up, fight social health differences. This is the Hurdal platform clearly on. We have a demanding time behind us with social distance, and where mental health has been given an even greater rightful place on the agenda. But it's with a serious hindrance that it's happened. We know that we have a time when many have felt alone – have been alone. Loneliness has become a major problem. That is why I am so happy that mental health is now on the agenda to a greater extent. Mental health has been more under pressure, and we have challenges in providing good enough help. The waiting lists are too long, the efforts of the previous government have been too weak, we need psychologists, nurses and other health professionals. It has had and has consequences that affect those who need it the most. Poor mental health is the main cause of increasing disability among young people in Norway. It's serious and shows that as a society we haven't done enough. There has never been an option for us in the Workers' Party not to get hold of this. I am therefore so glad that the new government is so clear that we need a power cap for mental health. I would like to extend a great deal of thanks to all those who have done their utmost to ensure the necessary health care for the population under the pandemic. But applause alone is not enough. And we have more than enough to tackle after eight years of underprioritising our common healthcare. Patients shall meet a service where employees have time – time to quality. That is what we get when we give priority to health and security over tax cuts to them with the most. It gives us opportunities that the previous government didn't have. That's what we're going to do with the professionals, because the professionals are the most important thing. The decision-makers are the ones most of us meet too large and too small, the ones who treat the majority of our health. Neither have we done enough here, and that's why we have a fixed crisis. The major government has higher ambitions with the aim of strengthening the firming system effectively, ensuring stable recruitment and medical coverage throughout the country. Then the list length must be down and the basic grant up. The professionals are the most important thing we have in our health policy. And it's not just doctors who are the challenge; we lack nurses, specialists and health professionals. It's demanding, so I'm glad we're going to work a lot on this. It's good that we're going to get a Health Care Commission. In that case, permanent, entire jobs must become the standard of health care. Abortion is a serious issue that requires serious political treatment. Unlike the previous government, today's government wants to look at the abortion law in a proper way in full transparency. It's serious, and it's worth it. The Right Party and the Christian People's Party have already announced a struggle – believe what they want, but that's politics. The Labour Party has a clear policy where we put the woman first. I look forward to discussing it here in Stortinget as well. We have to be constructive and cooperative, because good health means freedom, and we all have a health. Most of us have to have help at some point either as patients or relatives. We must then be able to rely on the community to set up, regardless of where you live and the size of your wallet.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10747	Last week, Erna Solberg handed over the key card to a country in good condition. Employment is increasing, unemployment is falling, and 5,000 more are completing school every year. The basis has been laid for further growth in the future. The new government takes over a Norway that is going well in many areas, and it is in the back of the Right that, after our guard, we are going to deliver the country into a better constitution than when we took over. The last thing right did in government was to provide a government budget that facilitates safe and good life throughout the country, by laying the foundations for more jobs in the private sector, by giving people and businesses the skills they need, by speeding up the transition towards a greener and more digitised society and by seeing the weakest. The new government writes that it must implement a trust reform. However, in the same platform, it shows zero confidence that local politicians can decide for themselves how they want to meet their skills needs or to acquire services for their citizens. The government clearly demonstrates that the system is more important than a single person — throughout the government statement. Allergy The Workers' Party – and now also the Center Party – has against the needs of the children. The most important thing for a child that needs to be taken care of by child protection is good care and a good framework, but this obviously comes in a different row for the government, which seems to be the most important who delivers the services. In the government platform there are many paradoxes. One of them is that the districts are becoming the most vulnerable, as it is initially those with the least access to skilled professionals, while at the same time ending the use of competitive outsourcing. This happens at the same time as municipalities are given increased responsibility in the reform of child protection. Another is that the government will terminate the use of competitive outsourcing while ensuring non-profit institutions serving households long-term contracts with the public. How is this possible, and why is it better to have a monopoly of ideals than a wide diversity? And what about all the areas where the ideals don't offer services today? Was it really the best of children that was at the heart of Hurdal and agreed on these specific points? A third area is that the Workers' Party and the Centre write that it is a priority task to ensure good competence. How credible is this? Until today, the Labour Party has not wanted to talk about anything other than designating jobs and the number of employees in this field. It has been the Right who has talked about and allocated money to increase the competence of child protection. The message was clear when the KS met for consultation in Stortinget relating to a proposal for an examination of child protection. They said that we «know enough about what is not good enough». Furthermore, they argued for the need for professional development of the service. For me and for the right, that means that the answer to the challenges identified in child protection is something other than the designation of more jobs, because more people are not necessarily the same as increased competence or better quality. With the Right in Government, the competence of child-restraint workers was one of the most important efforts to meet the challenges facing child-restraint. A new reform of child protection competences has been consulted, and the development of a master's degree in child protection is now under way. Master's degree will provide a higher level of legal competence in the service, and this is absolutely necessary, because the legal certainty of children is still insufficient, according to reports from, among others. The National Auditor's Office. Therefore, the government proposed 77 million. In order to introduce the skills needs of child-restraint workers in the State budget for 2022, we will also set up 300 new child-rescue masters' places of study. Finally, I will present a challenge, and then in the field of equality. When equality under Erna Solberg was moved to the Ministry of Culture, the current Minister for Culture and Gender Equality stated that it was hair-tracing, embarrassing and drooling, and that: ‘The equality policy has nothing to do with the Ministry of Culture’. The challenge and question of this is that the new government is now planning to restore equality to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, as the Trettebergstuen clearly believed that the Minister for Culture should not be responsible for this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10767	I come from a part of the country with some major living conditions challenges. Agder has challenges related to low levels of employment, a high proportion of disabled people in working age, and we have a lower level of education, which in turn leads to lower average income. This is information that we've had for many decades, actually throughout my lifetime, and yet we haven't been able to do anything about it. Anything else we know, is that closer to 39 pst. of those with primary education as the highest level of education completed, outside the labour force. The corresponding figures for those who have completed upper secondary education are 16 pst. That's a pretty significant difference-- 39 pst. versus 16 pst. It shows that one of the most important things we can do to address the challenges of low participation and other living conditions challenges is to ensure that more people complete secondary education. Every year there are 5,000 students who lose their right to secondary education. Many of these students could have completed if they had a new chance and a little bit better time. Through an inclusive school with opportunities for even more completion, we can reduce the risk of living conditions challenges being inherited. During the time of the Left in government, the actual completion rate has increased to 80 pst. That's why I insisted that not the completion reform or other offensive policy to prevent drop-out from higher education is mentioned in the new government platform. The left will continue to fight for the completion reform over the next four years because we want a participating community, with little differences, where people have the freedom to live the life they want. If more people complete higher education in the coming years, we also need even more jobs. For Agder and for other industrialised regions, market access to Europe is the very lifeblood of many local communities. In 2020, enterprises in Agder exported 17.4 billion. kr to EU country, and just below 2000 000 jobs are indirectly or directly linked to exports. Not least, there are many companies that depend on labour and competences that we get to the country through free movement and the EEA Agreement. The agreement is simply very important for many jobs in the districts. From my own region I can mention important businesses like Nøsted Kjetting in Mandal, Elkem in Kristiansand, Aludyne in Farsund and Morrow in Arendal. Therefore, I am concerned when the government’s new platform states that the EEA Agreement action space should be actively explored and used, and that it should be targeted to defend Norwegian interests towards the EU. The government risks dismantling the EEA Agreement step by step by step by constantly challenging a regulatory framework that links us closer to Europe. The last Norwegian business life needs now, is more uncertainty, after a long time with the corona. The EEA Agreement serves us well, and the road ahead should be a stronger European cooperation where Norway has more influence and no less. The only real option to the EEA Agreement is full EU membership. The left is at the forefront of the EEA Agreement, and it is also about the fact that the climate crisis requires international cooperation. When we talk about climate change, we often talk about it as if there's something happening far away or far ahead of time, but the consequences actually happen here and are now noticed, and that's how it is for all coastal cities in my region. According to NVE estimates, the increasing extreme weather of my municipality of growth Mandal means that while a 200-year-old flood was thought to mean 1.8 metres higher water levels at our city bridge, it is now estimated to be 2.7 metres – and that is the difference of only 17 years. The time for derogation from climate policy is over and, fortunately, although the direction is fixed also with a grey government, I see with great concern the wording that tax reductions should be developed for specifically affected groups and industries. It is a weakening of one of the most important climate measures we have, namely the CO 2 tax. The government also states that climate policy should not be moralising, but what is actually more immoral than not doing what is necessary to stop the catastrophic climate change we are facing? We know that we need to implement climate action, including climate action that can be a little unpleasant, but we cannot promote as many exceptions as measures. Climate policy must primarily cut emissions, while we can use the rest of the tax policy to balance the differences, and then we can pursue an effective climate policy alongside. Norway has all the opportunities to become a winner in the transition to a greener society. During this ageing period, we need a green knowledge and industry party that looks ahead, not a grey government that reverses climate taxes, forgets the school and weakens the nutrient base in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10787	The voters have sent a clear political signal. With 100 mandates at Stortinget, there are few choices in Norwegian modern history that have given a better result on the left-hand side. Moreover, it is the socialist left and the most progressive environmental parties that have grown most on the red-green side. There is a powerful message and an expectation of change from the course that Erna Solberg has been heading the country after the last eight years, with increasing differences in power and wealth, with broken climate targets and with the degradation of nature. That is why we are pleased that a new government has been set up. SV has been clear all the way. Our goal has been a red-green government with SV's participation, a government that represents a change in course, for fair distribution and the environment. But we've also been very clear that we're only in a government that actually gives that change of course. It is the policy that has to decide, not the positions. If it doesn't get powerful enough to bring down the differences and the climate emissions, then we're in opposition. That's what happened. The Hurdal platform is too weak to cope with the increasing disparities and with the climate and nature crisis. We see it, for example. in two of the important issues of well-being and fair distribution. The first: Among the children in 1–4. four out of ten do not go into the SFO, and one third of the families say that the price is a reason for that. Many children leave school alone because of their parents' finances, while the other kids continue to play and learn. That's not strange, because there are many people who can't afford to pay up to NOK 30,000 a year just for one child with a full-time job. This gives a class distinction in school with which something needs to be done, especially when, during Erna Solberg's reign, there has been a record in child poverty. The Hurdal platform does not exactly reflect the urgent need for those kids who cannot join the SFO now. There we can read that it is to be gradually introduced free of charge for first-class ratings. Well and good, but not for the whole 1.-4. not how much of the SFO offer is going to be free of charge or when during the period. It's too weak. But it's not surprising given that the Workers' Party and the Centre have a lack of willingness to redistribute enough from the wealth of the economic elite to the well-being of the many. The government's tax promises stand in the way of their welfare promises. The second example is profit from our well-being. Under Erna Solberg, the crane has been open to large commercial groups, often with bank accounts in tax havens. There are welfare professionals who have been enriched by tax and parental payments, who should have made a better offer for our kids in kindergartens, for example. Yes, 1 billion. kr the Hagen committee disappears out of our well-being into private profit in just a year. The return has increased in kindergartens than on the stock exchange. And if development continues as it is now, half of the private kindergartens will be owned by five large groups by 2029. Then it's urgent to come up with strong enough grips to stop this business getting busted, to keep the diversity of small and parental ideal kindergartens. But the government platform does not give the grips needed to take this settlement with profit. What is really needed is a ban on taking profits out of kindergartens, but the platform does not even support all that has already been identified by good tools in the Storberget Committee. The platform is too gray. Now it's up to the government how it's going to deal with the Storting. Does it choose to be a grey center government, or will it listen to the strong message from the ballot boxes that have put together this historic red-green Storting? In any case, SV is ready to use its key role in constructively filling policy over the next four years with a more reddish and greener content than what we see in this platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10804	The election this fall was about what kind of society we want. The result gave a historically strong majority for a new and fairer course for our country. Ordinary people throughout the country want their lives, challenges and interests again to be at the top of the agenda. And in school and knowledge, the ambitions are very big. For the Workers' Party, the main task of the school is to ensure that all children are taught well. The school must be suitable for everyone – it is not for the children to adapt to the school. We will provide children and young people with more active, practical and adapted education, where all students meet qualified teachers with time for good follow-up and varied teaching. We want a school where children and young people meet qualified teachers and professionals who have time for them – time and confidence to give follow-up or help right away. Children and young people have to feel good about learning well. We want a school that takes learning and well-being seriously, and that is very clear on this statement. We will provide students with more varied education, better follow-up and more qualified teachers with better time. We will do that because it provides better learning for students – and more trust and less over-management of those who work at school. Good kindergartens give children a good start in life. Good growth lasts for the rest of your life. Good kindergartens are an important contribution to providing all children with safe, well-growth and equal opportunities. In kindergarten, children shall experience inclusion, community and friendship. Here they will meet adults with the right skills and enough staff who have time to use their expertise with the children. From having a civil majority and a right-wing government that has increased the prices of kindergartens for eight years, we have now finally received a government that will reduce the prices of families with children and increase staffing with qualified employees for the youngest. We'll give more teachers priority. The most important thing for children and young people’s learning, mastering and well-being is that they meet qualified teachers who have time to see each individual student. The government will meet the notified teaching shortage with a broad commitment to recruiting, training and retaining several qualified teachers. Efforts to develop skills shall continue at the current level. The provision of continuing training shall be extended by a number of subjects and key areas such as class management, digital learning materials, adapted training and special pedagogics. This is what we're going to bet on. It is clear, and it provides a school with more competence adapted to the varied needs of the students. We want to strengthen the primary school. That children and young people with different backgrounds learn together at school is important for the community — it builds up differences and confidence in each other. It's clear, and it gives a school with more competence, which is important in the future. The government will continue to renew the trade union, but will also introduce a trust reform in the school in dialogue with the parties. It's an important part of the quality work. We want more practical learning in school. Children and young people shall experience that practical skills and skills are emphasised and valuable to society. I am pleased that the government will strengthen practical learning and start with a reform of secondary school, which will provide more practical learning and prepare the rivers for both professional and preparatory courses of study. In this context, it is necessary to provide schools with the necessary skills, equipment and learning venues to implement practical learning methods in all disciplines. Since Norwegian business and social life needs more skilled workers, I am pleased that the government will carry out a powerful profession for the professions, starting with strengthening practical learning in primary school, improving vocational training in school and apprenticeship, and increasing efforts for serious working conditions. Students have to feel good about learning well, as I have said before. Schools where students learn well are also characterised by high levels of well-being. Children and young people must have a safe and good school environment. Bullying at school and other arenas shall be prevented and promptly addressed. We want to strengthen higher vocational education. Professional schools shall provide a higher quality vocational education and be an equivalent professional alternative to university and higher education. I am pleased that the government will give vocational education a more important role in lifelong learning and work for close cooperation between the vocational schools and the social partners. The government will also give priority to developing quality and offering to meet future skills needs. Summary: The best thing about Norway is the high trust we have in each other, and the strong community that binds us together. Small differences between people and a living government have made Norway one of the world’s best countries to live in. That is why good welfare services are very central to people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10836	First, I wish Jonas Gahr Gøre luck as Prime Minister and all the best for the government's important work for all of us. The Solberg government has provided more police and a professionalized preparedness. The Norwegian justice sector has never been stronger than now after eight years of right-wing government. Norwegian police and preparedness were for many decades underprioritised by various, both blue and red-green, governments. In the period after 22 July, the Norwegian police were analysed, and the conclusion was brutal. Norwegian preparedness stood by the smears. But a lot has happened since 2011. After the government change in 2013, the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left Party and the Workers' Party started to reform the Norwegian police force. Unfortunately, the Labour Party has recently chosen to withdraw its support for the reform. The right, on the other hand, has stood up to the police reform, both in ups and downs, and when the result is now available, we cannot help but be proud. Under the leadership of the Right, Norwegian police have been strengthened with astounding 2 500 more operative police officers. These are people who stand by day and night to keep us safe. We have increased their operating budget by about 4.2 billion. NOK and allocated a further 5 billion. kr for major investments. We have been committed to prevention, strengthening research, stepping up the fight against online abuse and professionalising preparedness across the country. The National Emergency Response Centre of the police has assembled key emergency services in one place, so that they can train and work together in a more efficient way. The emergency team has turned 60 pst. greater. We've got three splits of new police helicopters. We have reached the target of two police officers per 1 000 inhabitants and have the police comply with national response time requirements in all three agglomerations. When Erna surrenders the Prime Minister's chair to Gahr Støre and former Minister of Justice Monica Mæland has left the police to Emilie Mehl, there is little doubt that they inherit a safer Norway than what we acquired in 2013. The most important thing for the right is that the police should be where crime takes place, reinforced care for the victims, and prevent radicalisation and extremism. The government indicates that it wants a police force for yesterday's crime scene, not the challenges of the future. The main effort is to shift the resources of the police to maintain more police offices rather than equip the police to deal with a modern crime scene. This is a reversal of the current policy that is not wanted by the police themselves, and the government's reversalives go hard on the justice sector. The reversal of the judicial reform, a reform strongly supported by the judges, the jurors and the lawyers, is a star example of this government's expensive ideas and poor solutions. Through the election campaign, the Workers' Party in particular promised a force against extremism, and especially right-wing extremism. These promises have become a single point in the declaration: the Government will establish a Commission. The need for such a Commission one year after our government action plan against radicalisation and violent extremism testifies to a government that is empty of ideas and has low ambitions. The government parties were good through the election campaign to use big words, but after all, it turns out that the ability to act is limited to small adjustments. Right went to the elections at a separate subchapter with concrete measures against extremism and radicalisation. I can recommend the new Minister of Justice to take a look at the Right Programme if she wants to reflect on how to meet these challenges, as her own party leader and head of government seems to be empty of ideas and without ambitions. The great promises from the red-greens in the election campaign became little adjustments to the demonstrably sensible policy Right has led in the last eight years, and well it is. On behalf of the Right, I would like to congratulate Minister of Justice Mehl on very important and demanding tasks. We promise to be constructive, but we're going to meet the government with expectations of making up the bets we've started, and will warn against simple symbol politics in line with what we heard in the election campaign. 94 pst. the population indicates that they feel safe. That's good, but we're not going to take the security for granted. I hope that the government will continue to look forward and continue the efforts rather than waste billions of money on the reversal of measures either by the police or by sorcerers or courts. But they are not usually enough people for Gahr Støre and his crew to hear their voice.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10859	First, I would like to congratulate the new government and say that I am pleased that we have now received a government that will take Norway in a different and new direction – a government that will prevent and combat crime throughout the country and ensure that the police are present in people's everyday lives, both physically and online. Now there is actually to be a strengthening of the overall police force, so that people – wherever they live – can feel secure. We must have a close and visible police force with a strong civil character. Crime must primarily be prevented. A police officer who is close and has good local knowledge is a prerequisite for this. We want to fight crime, but also the causes of crime. The aim must be to implement policies that prevent better, clarify more, respond more quickly and rehabilitate better. We all have a responsibility to follow the law, but our community also has a responsibility to enable people to follow the law. That means that as a community we must be present in people's lives. We have to follow up on the kids that fall outside, we have to follow up on the kids who don't master the school, and we have to be there before people fall into a criminal racetrack. This requires a lot of us. Our Community, for example, has. not been strong enough when we see children and young people becoming serious criminals in connection with gangs. I am pleased that we have a government that sees this, which will be preventive and smart about crime and not just about on crime. An effective chain of criminal proceedings is essential for effective crime control and good legal certainty for citizens. In order for victims of crime not to be in unworthy queues leading to criminal penalties for those who have violated the law, capacity must be improved throughout the criminal justice chain, as stated by the government in the Hurdal platform. We need modern, decentralised and accessible courts. The handling by the courts of both civil and criminal matters shall be effective and secure. That is why we want a decentralised court structure. The courts shall be able to carry out their tasks of high quality and within a reasonable period of time. The Labour Party believes that the independent role of the courts as a third state power must be protected. Criminal services must be repatriated with a primary focus on rehabilitation and repatriation. Our goal for prison and free custody is that people who are sentenced to acquittal should carry out a punishment with content that can provide a crime-free life after acquittal. This increases social security for all of us. A good content in the atonement and a punishment that works are important to the person involved, and it is also important for all of us who are outside the walls. As far as possible, reconciliation shall take place in the vicinity of the social, family and work-related networks of convictions. I'm glad the government clearly says that children should not be in ordinary prisons. The fact that children are currently deliberately placed in high-security prisons for adult men is among the most serious violations of children’s need for special protection and children’s rights. This was introduced on Solberg’s watch – now it is to be changed during Gahr Støre. Ensuring safety of life and health is the most important task of the Community and of the country. We believe that the overall threat facing Norway, with a more unstable security policy situation, increasing inequality in Norway and internationally, climate change and challenges especially related to digitisation, creates an increased need to see threats and preparedness in the context. A broad overall preparedness review is needed. That is why we are pleased that the government will put down a total preparedness commission to look at the whole, weaknesses and strengths of total defence and preparedness. Local preparedness needs to be strengthened. The rule is that the next crisis does not equal this crisis. We need a stronger cooperative, clearer management and better exercises throughout the emergency chain. There is a need for broader digital interaction tools between emergency and voluntary rescue services. All the parties want security for the inhabitants. There is a lot of agreement in the field of justice, but there is also a lot of disagreement. We're looking for broad solutions in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10884	Today we are debating a government statement with a clear ambition that we will develop all of Norway. The government is going to rust this country up for the big problems that are now ahead of us. I stand here today as Minister of Agriculture and Food, a job I take very seriously. As one who has grown up on the farm and been on the chair since before I could walk, I am aware of the challenges, but also the enormous expectations a whole industry is now facing. That is why I am proud that the government prioritises agriculture high in this government statement. It is important, because there is no doubt that the agricultural industry is facing major challenges and has felt, not least, a great degree of insecurity in recent years. This government wants a new course for Norwegian agricultural policy, a policy to contribute to more Norwegian food production, and a policy to take Norwegian food producers seriously. We have set an ambitious goal of improving the incomes of agriculture. Our platform says that farmers should have the same income opportunities as other groups. It is important both for our food production and for the continuation of agriculture throughout the country. But it also requires that we take account of market developments, competitiveness against imports, a good framework for investment funds and not least that the increase in income should be realised in practice. Arrangements for good income opportunities and the actual income measurement are complicated. An important basis for the plan of revenue escalation must be based on the work of the expert committee on income measurement. An investigation to be submitted by the summer of 2022 shall now be carried out and shall assess the basis and conditions for the comparison of agricultural entrepreneurial income with wages and salaries for employees. So I just want to make it clear that waiting for the expert committee's investigation does not prevent a good agricultural settlement for spring, but it is important that a thorough investigation is carried out as a basis for this escalation plan. Agriculture plays a major role in employment, local value creation and development throughout Norway. There is no doubt that this government wants a new course in Norwegian agricultural policy, and that is why we have prioritised a specific point on this in the Hurdal platform. The government will ensure agriculture throughout the country and help to follow up the social mission of agriculture, which is to secure the population enough and safe food produced on Norwegian natural resources. The strengthening of investment funds in agriculture is also important, in particular in view of the conversion to unutilised farming and the possibility of carrying on both small and medium-sized dairy farming. Import protection is the cornerstone of Norwegian agricultural policy and a prerequisite for an active agricultural policy across the country. For this reason, the government must take care of Norwegian agricultural interests in trade negotiations and not least take advantage of the scope of action we have in customs protection. Agriculture is also an important part of the solution for achieving Norway’s climate commitments. The climate agreement between the country and the organisations shall form the basis for the contribution of agriculture to climate action. We will continue to work to reduce emissions, increase carbon uptake and adapt agriculture in close cooperation with the whole industry. There are many exciting fields in agriculture and food. Purification as an industry, culture and way of life is unique in both national and international contexts. It represents good use of resources in marginal mountain and outland areas. It contributes to nutritional diversity and is a central bearer of Sami culture. The government will also continue to pursue a restrictive soil protection policy. Soil protection may not be the most sexy thing to talk about, but it's important, because food soil is a scarce resource. We have therefore set an ambitious goal of ensuring that soil protection becomes an overall consideration in land management. There is no doubt that this government has a bit of a clean-up job to do after the previous government. That job has now started. I am pleased to take on board the work done by this government, and not least have a good cooperation with the Stortinget to really now change the course of Norwegian agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10909	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10914	First, I would like to congratulate the Council of State on the appointment. It's good for people from the north of the government. The right has been an important driver in recognising snowmobiles as an important means of developing outdoor and business activities, including: reindeer and agriculture, for which the Council of State is responsible. The right has changed the distance requirement and started to review the Motor Traffic Act with a view to increasing local self-government. In the election campaign, the Central Party and the Council of State were clear in their demand that snowmobile policy should be included in the government statement. The result is that it is not mentioned at all. With this, snowmobile policy is paused, and SV, as the main partner, has to define snowmobile policy. My question to the Council of State is: Is the Council of State disappointed by the central party and its own lack of impact in the government statement on snowmobile policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10923	I notice that when the Minister of Agriculture and Food is in the Chamber, the Right Time spends asking about completely different things. There is evidence that agricultural policy may not be so important to the Right, but I can see it. But since I am a little above the average busy with the scooter, I can tell the representative Svardal Boe that it was probably not the previous government that changed the scooter policy, they were rather pressured by, among other things. The centre batch of this hall to make changes to the motorcycling law. I had hoped that the Right was a little more concerned with discussing agricultural policy today, but I note that there is not so much interest in it in the Right, and that seems regrettable to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10930	It would have been tempting to talk about wolves, but I won't. I must be allowed to congratulate Borch on a new and important job, and I am very pleased to have good cooperation in the field. We've cooperated well in the four years that have been, so I think it's going to be good in the future as well. Before today I asked a question to the centre party that I did not get a response to, so I thought I would try again. In the nation yesterday we could read about the sudden cut in the distribution grant. This means, for example: that the little Rørosmeieriet must pay 33 million. kr in various fees to Tine Raw materials and the PU scheme. There is less competition and more monopoly in food and agricultural policy, which, as far as the Senter party wants, but I think it is a little surprising that the government does not see that increased monopoly will hit the districts hard when the business there is centralised. We've seen more examples of just today, that the workplaces are moving to central strokes. I think this is worrying for us who are so happy throughout Norway, and therefore I wonder if the Council of State will join in and get a more predictable solution and not crack through this cut in the distribution grant in just a few days.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10938	I thank you for the congratulations, and I would also like to thank you for the good cooperation we had in the previous period at Stortinget. I hope we can still have a good cooperation. With regard to the matter to which the representative refers, I think the representative understands that I cannot today talk about an administrative matter that is being dealt with in the department. What I can say is that the tool that the industry has, and that has been very important for the industry, is to ring around just to have activity in agriculture throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10945	Congratulations! It's nice to see one from my region and my county standing here in such an important Council post. Sandra Borch comes from Troms, a state where new SSB figures show that a quarter of agriculture has disappeared in ten years – a quarter of agriculture. In municipalities like Klepp and Hå, there are as many farmers as in the whole of Troms and Finnmark. This is a consequence of a colossal centralisation that has taken place in Norwegian agriculture, which has gone beyond rural agriculture – a colossal one. There are many reasons for this, and I read the Hurdal platform with the desire to see that there is a change in agricultural policy, that is, that instead of concentrating agriculture on some areas, one spreads it and uses the amazing grazing basis one has, among other things. in counties like Troms. Can the Council explain how one can understand the Hurdal platform as a new direction?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10952	What the government has launched in the government platform is a new course in Norwegian agricultural policy, a course I hope SV will also be involved in and will cooperate on. It is crystal clear that we want to present a binding and temporal plan to close the income gap between agriculture and other groups. Then I share the concern of the representative of Troms about Arctic agriculture. We see a great decline in North Norway. Now we have to say that we have an instrument that helps secure agriculture throughout the country. We also need to increase the investment grant, so that young farmers and farmers who consider taking over farm operations get the financial support and the economic security they need to actually operate with what is the world's best food production.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10959	First, I would like to congratulate the Council of State on the appointment and wish you every success in the important work. The peasants and Tine have long and very clearly stated that they wish to remove the competitive subsidies under the PU scheme. In the Hurdal platform, they have succeeded in getting it in. However, there is nothing on how to do it, whether to investigate the impact, or what is the attitude to competition in the future. I would believe that it is very demanding for the dairy industry and creates great uncertainty about district work and investment in the future. I hope the Council of State will make contact as soon as possible to establish dialogue with the actors involved. The competitive subsidy is granted to all Tine’s competitors to challenge Tine’s market dominance. Can the Council of States explain how she intends to phase out the competitive instruments of the PU scheme, and will the Council of States engage in dialogue with the actors concerned, in order to highlight the consequences of the removal of the subsidy?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10966	As I said, this council has only been at work for five days. However, this is an important measure in the government platform, precisely to help farmers across the country, including in the districts – in northern Norway, in the west, in the south, in the east. Important measures are precisely designed to stimulate agriculture throughout the wonderful country. You can also ask the industry if things were much better when the representative sat down and ran, if there was great optimism in the industry then. My main job and the government's main job will now be to have a close and good dialogue with the industry on how to actually contribute to a new course in Norwegian agricultural policy – a course that cleans up after the previous government massive root.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10971	I can draw out one actor: the Q-Meierien. They are the net contributor to the PU scheme today, with about 100 million. kr. If changes to the competitive incentives are made without a comprehensive and predictable evaluation, they are highly distortive. It breaks with political promises, assumptions – and predictability of Q-Meierien’s investment of nearly 1 billion. kr on the Jären. Yeah, we're going to have farmers all over the country, but aren't we going to have dairy food all over the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10976	We need an agricultural industry throughout the country, and we need a strong agricultural cooperation. What has made Norway and the farmers in Norway as strong as you can see now is cooperation in Norwegian Agricultural Cooperation. The fact that the farmers themselves own these organisations is incredibly important, precisely because you should be able to have dairy – a Tine-meieri – in Finnmark, and in order to have slaughterhouses around the country. And then it is very important now to contribute to a new course in Norwegian agricultural policy, to close the huge income gap between farmers and other groups and to increase the investment grant, so that farmers really want to invest in the industry and not least feel the security they deserve to produce safe, Norwegian, clean food for the Norwegian population.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10981	First, I would like to congratulate Sandra Borch on the post of the Council of State. I am very happy that we have brought it home to North Norway, and I look forward to a good cooperation in the nutrition committee, which I belong to. The Council of State for Food and Agriculture is the Council of State for perhaps the most climate-friendly meat production we have in Europe and in the world, the Sami reindeer. We also know that the Sami reindeer has lost ground year after year. At the same time as processes of slaughtering and reduction of the reindeer number have been carried out, the reindeer operators must find out that the area they have used in the past is spent on wind turbines, on mines and on cabin cities. My question is, what will the Council of State do to ensure the production areas of reindeer farming?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e10990	Thank you for a good question. Is that what I'm looking forward to, it's getting better acquainted with the reindeer. There is no doubt that reindeer farming is important for the preservation of Sami culture, social life and language, but also for food production. The industry also exploits important foreign resources and has an even greater potential for increased value creation. The government platform provides clear leadership and has clear points for what we want with the reindeer industry. We wish, among other things: to carry out a comprehensive revision of the Act on reindeer management. We want to recognise reindeer management as an important cultural industry that is family-based and based on a unique way of life. It is also important to talk about the reindeer industry, because often when we talk about food policy, we talk about agriculture, but the reindeer industry is also an important part of that responsibility and not least that policy. I am now happy to visit the reindeer industry and become better acquainted with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11001	First: Congratulations to the Council of State, and good luck with exciting and demanding tasks! I have to say that when I read the Hurdal platform, it's from the animals' perspective quite sad reading. The previous government was headed by one of the most animal-friendly governments in Norway. Now we see that the Workers' Party and the Centre have in no way the same level of ambition on behalf of animal welfare and rights. Animal welfare policy is not even mentioned in the platform for animals other than so-called farmed animals, and also for farmed animals it is the status quo. Today’s animal welfare requirements in agriculture are not strict enough, and this does not help with enhanced food supervision and veterinary services. We must have less intensive operations, we must phase out fast-growing breeds, and we must have a more varied and flexible living environment for example. pig, pig, pig, pig, pig, pig, pig, pig, pig, pig, pig, pig, pig, pig, pig, pig, pig, pig, pig, pig, pig, pig, pig, pig, pig, pig, pig, pig, pig, pig, pig, pig, pig, pig, pig, pig, pig, pig, pig, pig, pig, pig, pig, pig, pig, pig, pig, pig, pig, I would therefore like to ask the Council of State: what ambitions does the Minister of Agriculture have in order to ensure stricter animal welfare rules so that animals do not suffer from agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11010	Is there something I know from the industry, that the whole industry is concerned about delivering on good animal welfare. The platform also delivers policies on animal welfare. It's a whole section of the platform on animal welfare. The representative was within some of the measures, but it is essential to strengthen the Food Authority. Strengthening veterinary services is also essential. And it is essential to provide for a new course in Norwegian agricultural policy, so that farmers get income to live on. If there's something we know, it's that Norwegian farmers are happy in their animals. There is none of those who are operating today who are not happy in their animals. It is also not a good economy to have poor animal welfare. Of course, we still have to work to be the world leader in animal welfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11022	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11027	It's a new day in Norway. The Norwegian people have chosen a historically left-wing magnificence. Such an election result obligates. The Labour Party and the Centre Party now have a big commitment in the time that comes when what has happened is going to be more than Norway having a new government. Norway also needs a new policy course. We in Red will help the government with this – sometimes as a critical but most often as a constructive partner. In the Hurdal Declaration, the Workers' Party and the Zenterpartiet announce a major cleaning in Norwegian working life. It's incredibly joyful, and in this field, Red puts up with both food and fines to contribute as a laundry service – or a cleaning consultant, as it might be called in our days. In recent years, the explosive growth of employment agencies has turned back on a lot of Norwegian labour. Once again, we see that workers are in a position to work without basic security for income and work. It is therefore gratifying that the government is now warning that it should tighten the law for the manning industry. We're happy about that. But we are also very concerned, because some of the clearest choices in this area have unfortunately been reduced to investigations and assessments. Not least, we are concerned that the government has not from the outset committed itself to an immediate ban on recruitment agencies in the Oslo area, as both the construction trade unions and Red have demanded, and as the Workers' Party and the Centre have repeatedly proposed in this Chamber. Such a ban does not require extensive legal work. It is fully possible within today's law. At least that was what the Workers' Party and the Centre felt as late as December 2020, when they promoted this proposal last. To be honest, I've had a hard time seeing what's going to have changed now. For too many years, the Norwegian State has punished sick, insured and disadvantaged people, both with petty cuts in benefits and with control hysteria and mistrust in the Nav system. The so-called line of work has not primarily been about working, but about punishing oneself to be ill. The result of this is, in my view, an institutionalized bullying of sick, insured and disabled people in our society. This persecution of sick, disabled and insured people must end. The government's first opportunity to prove that it was putting out a new course in this field is already coming in these days. Now hundreds of people fall out of the redundancy scheme every week because of the small cut of the Solberg government in the field. These track gauges must be included in the scheme again. Red and I expect it to happen in the near future, in line with what the government has fortunately signaled both in the Hurdal Declaration and elsewhere. I opened by saying that it is a new day in Norway, and we are delighted to take on the major cleaning after the government of Solberg. But it has to be more than a cat wash. Here you need a stronger lye, and Red is ready to help with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11048	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11053	In the election campaign, Red said that they wanted to be able to submit requirements in development contracts that a proportion of the dwellings being built should have a permanent price that is below market price. Historical experience shows that regulated housing prices create two different housing markets, where those living in dwellings purchased below market prices will not be able to choose freely the house they have found and will purchase as their next dwelling. A new housing sector, as described by Red, will lead to residents being locked into an owner-occupied housing model. How does Red understand that a purchaser of a dwelling below the market price at the next change of dwelling should be able to purchase a dwelling in the ordinary housing market? How does Red think that this housing model will last for a while?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11060	Thanks for the line. It is true that Red wants a so-called third housing sector. Norway has one of the least regulated housing markets in the world, and the reality today is that very many people have no opportunity to enter the housing market. Not least, there are very many common jobs and ordinary wages living in and around the big cities. A third residential sector with regulated prices will give people the opportunity to enter the housing market. They will not be able to use their home as a speculation object, but they will have the opportunity to have a safe, proper and proper place to live. I think a lot of people will like that, compared to today's rental market.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11065	When there's a good rogalending on the speaker's chair, it's worth using the possibility, especially when it's a little bit unclear when one is on important issues to secure the employment of the county that we represent. The representative Kristjánsson has been clear as a defender of the oil and gas industry, which is important to Rogaland, but when Red arrives at the Stortinget, he sees that on the first day they are proposing to stop the search for oil and gas. It's a decision that, if she had got multiples, would have something to say for thousands of jobs in our county. Has the representative Kristjánsson lost this fight in Red, or was there something that others did not understand in the election campaign?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11072	There must have been either something that Pollestad did not understand, or it must have been that the representative Pollestad did not listen to, because in all the debates in the election campaign in which we were both involved in Rogaland, I have stood crystal clear on what is Red's policy. It is not opening new areas for oil and gas exploration. What Red has done is to go away from an end date for the oil and gas industry in 2030, but we are still not trailers – I have never been a follower of it – to open new areas for oil and gas exploration, which will mean that we will not be able to operate until many decades, and that will mean that there will be a further decade's lifetime in these fields, so that we are at risk of maintaining dependence on oil and gas industry. Although it is the greatest joy in our state, it is also the greatest threat to our county's future that we are not getting away from the addiction we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11077	I would like to follow it up a little further: if this proposal to put a stop to the search had got multiples in Stortinget – something that doesn't – what does the representative think it would have had consequences for the employment in our county?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11082	That's a good and timely question. Whatever has to be adopted in this room, no more hydrocarbons appear in the North Sea, the Barents Sea or the Norwegian Sea than it is there. No matter what you might think of it in this room, the extraction of Norwegian oil and gas on the base will fall sharply over the next decades. Then we believe in Red that it makes more sense to start the planned conversion now, in a proper way, rather than continuing to search and open up new fields until we arrive at a market-driven crash landing, which will mean a huge employment crisis for our county if we haven't got more bones to stand on.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11087	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11093	Often we say that we are as lucky as we live in Norway. That each of us was born right here is because of luck, but that Norway has become the country it is, everything else is because of happiness and happiness. It's because of the sum of all the political choices we've made as a country – where the difference between people is small and great, where it's a value to all of us that people live all over the country, where the welfare is going to be public, so we all get the same opportunity no matter what kind of family we grow up in, and that we have a working life that makes no one stand by the hand. All of this has gone in the wrong direction in the last eight years under the leadership of the Progress Party and the Right. We have had a government that has centralised and privatized, a government that has backed up on the unorganized working life. You may not have the hat in your hand, but too many people have put the phone in their hands and waited for the next job. The differences between people have increased, and under Erna Solberg's leadership, we have had a record both in the number of millionaires and in the number of poor children. The wealthiest of the country has been given the trellis of tax cuts, while those sitting at the bottom of the table have had petty cuts. That's what Norway said no to September 13 by giving a historic majority to our side of politics. With a new government, it will be a new course for Norway, for now it is finally a common people's journey. Now we're going to strengthen the well-being in the vicinity of where people live, because the big problems we do best together. We are going to remove the right to temporary employment and double the union deduction, for a safe job to go to is the most important thing for your own safety. We're going to lower the tax on ordinary people and increase it for the country's millionaires. We're going to have a more active industrial policy, where the state is both making demands and making demands. Of course, the Hurdal Declaration does not have all the answers, but it points out a direction and shows the way to where we should be like countries in the 2020s. It gives a new course for Norway, a course that sets life for ordinary people first. Martin Tranmæl said in a speech that we should stand with our legs well planted on Norwegian soil, but with our eyes facing the world. The same can be said about this government. This is an internationally oriented government that understands that there is no difference between foreign and domestic policy. It's more and more interconnected. A few years ago, someone was talking about social democracy being in crisis. Today we have Social Democratic Prime Minister in Norway, Sweden, Denmark and Finland and probably also soon Federal Chancellor in Germany. We are part of a world that will have more community and more cooperation. I also think that this situation makes it possible for us to have more international initiatives. It is not day and night in foreign policy, and it is positive in Norway that we are to recognise through the different governments. But there are some important differences. We've got a government that will do more, that dares more, and that will take new initiatives for a safer, fairer and greener world. It is in Norway’s interest to be a country that contributes more, because in a polarised world, we need countries that do more — for the climate, for international law, for disarmament, for dialogue and reconciliation. It needs the world. While there is much going in the right direction, we also experience more anxiety and more unforeseeableness. Several countries are about to break up, the conflicts between the major powers are increasing, and in our own neighbourhood we see that many countries are going in an authoritarian direction, and that rights we have taken for granted are now in danger. This is where we need Norway – both because it is in our own interest, and because we are a country to stand up for solidarity. In development policy, we say that we should give more priority. We can't be everything for everyone, but we can do more and look for opportunities where Norway can make a big difference. Under the previous government, we were cut off climate finance and cut off support for women to control their own bodies. The time for it is definitely over. Just as climate, inequality, equality and food are the most important priorities for the government at home, so they should be out there in the world. Norway shall be a peace nation. We're going to be a good ally, a cooperative nation and a country that stands up for our basic values. We're going to be a country that puts community first, both here at home and out in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11114	Let me also join in the congratulations to the new government, and good luck with new positions and important tasks for the co-representatives. Last week the new government platform was presented, and there was great tension in the visions of the years ahead. The Labour Party and the Centre have had eight years in opposition to find out what they want with Norway. The platform shows, at least for the time being, that they are not clear. SV has stamped the platform as gray. I'd rather say it's more wool, because in several areas it's actually hard to understand what the government wants. What we got was a government statement that didn't answer the challenges of the future. The government is going to implement a trust reform. In practice, it shows no more than distrust of the country’s inhabitants and its municipalities. It does not show confidence that students can choose which high school they think is best for them. It also does not show confidence that patients, especially those who are struggling with drug abuse and mental illness, can choose a treatment offer that is appropriate for them. The government does not trust the courts which do not want the judicial reform to be reversed. Nor does it show confidence in the police, who are now going to get Länsmann's offices they don't want. Even the KS, where the municipal minister himself was the head of until a few days ago, was out in the Municipal Report and worried that the municipalities would not have enough autonomy for the reform to work. This does not sound like a reform of trust. It sounds most like a mistrust reform. Since 2013, the free income of municipalities has increased by 35 billion. kr. Free income means more trust in local self-government. We have implemented reforms that we now see providing better services, while improving the efficiency of Community funds. The right is occupied with the best possible use of resources. Therefore, the Right will continue to prioritise the modernisation and digitisation of the public sector. It will be a different direction than what we can read on the platform, where we actually aim to have a performance project to create more public sector, create more municipalities, more county municipalities, more county administrations. The more public sector is not the answer to the challenges facing Norwegian society. Our welfare must be created before it can be shared. It is therefore necessary to facilitate the creation of private jobs throughout the country, both urban and rural. The cities of the future are not built with district measures, and before all the centre partisans now jump in the chair, I will keep adding that just as fully we cannot build high-growth districts with the city glasses on. The land is built locally, and we build it together. Cooperation between large cities and the surrounding districts is important for the development of the different parts of the country, both for business, jobs, infrastructure and housing development. Norway is a diverse country. Good regional and district policies provide more diversity and thus also more growth and value added across the country. The most important thing to ensure growth-intensive regions is a creative and innovative business, which has the right framework to create the new jobs. With larger and stronger municipalities, a stronger strategy can be developed to address the common challenges facing regions. The central party's no to local and regional reform and the eagerness of the new government to create more bureaucracy are therefore also a refusal to the solutions of the future. The right in the government has worked for a safe and sustainable Norway with opportunities for everyone. We also have to do that in the opposition in a constructive and good way. In the future, we will continue to work to create more jobs, to include more people in the workplace, to bring down health cows, to ensure that more people complete the school, and to cut emissions faster. We're going to make sure that children and young people get good growth conditions, and that the weakest of us never stay alone. I look forward to catching up on a new four-year period. I look forward to good cooperation with the representatives at Stortinget, and then we will see what the future brings when the government platform is gradually filled with a little more concrete content.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11137	The centre party and the Labour Party will make Norway safer and strengthen trust and proximity between people. The Hurdal platform clearly points out the course. We in Stortinget have a great responsibility to contribute constructively. The tone of today's debate basically promises well, and it also looks like Kapur has taken the opposition role so clearly. The centre party will work for strong communities and smaller differences between people and parts of the country. Regardless of age, situation and place of residence, there should be equal opportunities. You're supposed to have services close by across the country. In order for the values of trust, security and proximity to work, all three have to be strengthened. A continuous trust reform has been working for a long time, and now the government is going to put it to work. It's about professionals in the first line, reduced bureaucracy, digitisation where it's food-efficient, and enhanced party cooperation. It gives both a benefit to people and to the economy. The Upland Center Party made a historically good choice this year. Our conclusion suggests that we have a strengthened mandate and great trust in managing it. The government is responding to many of the expectations in the platform. That Uppland County Municipality can resurface, we rejoice and want the county council to be happy with the work. We're not going back in time. We're going to go forward, where smaller units ensure proximity and shorter ways of influencing people. It gives increased trust and less difference between people, fewer consultants and directors and more hands in the first line. And when the Right Kapur points to admission to high school, it's just gone from government that's exercising distrust when they're going to run this nationally rather than letting the states do it, where the students and the student organization clearly said that the way to influence was shorter. We have to make sure of that. We have both small and large communities. We have both towns and cities to be committed to through dedicated development agreements with local adaptations. In addition to coercion and overmanagement, both counties and municipalities should now notice that they will receive a government to contribute to jobs, value creation and industrial development on local premises. Infrastructure and high-speed broadband should be a right in our modern society. Business is diverse. Everything from travel and small businesses and individual enterprises to industrial locomotives with the world as a market gives community values and jobs. The centre party has to show what active business policy means, where entrepreneurs and businesses notice that we want them to succeed. Agriculture will also have a new spring. Revenue should be raised, welfare schemes strengthened and our limited resources valued better. Renewable energy and renewable value chains are essential for achieving the greenhouse gas cut targets and for bringing us to the transition. Norwegian food for Norwegian resources with Norwegian labour will be important. The statements by the Minister of Agriculture were just very clear. Climate policy is more than protection and an electric car. The choice of municipalities and people in everyday life is crucial. Globally, cooking is a mess. Consumption and people's opportunities in their communities throughout the country are becoming crucial. The municipalities must be allowed to share in the climate promise we as a country must take. Services near people should provide better quality of life and limit unnecessary shuttle transport. Whether there is a nursery near you with several kindergarten educators, primary schools that are now to receive basic funding and more qualified teachers, or the provision of skills at the local secondary school and educational centre – people will have the opportunity to develop their skills and individual growth throughout their lives. Higher education at both colleges, colleges and universities is becoming important for taking us as a society into the future. More useful research with the leading research institute becomes important for knowledge-based development. The parties also believe that both regional research funds and development funds need to be strengthened. The Solberg government hasn't hesitated to cut here, but it's now history. The Hurdal platform is on its way. We can also take pleasure in the strengthened commitment to psychiatry, local preparedness must be ensured, police and ambulances should be there when an accident occurs, not just the local fire department. It is about security, trust and proximity — values that the Hurdal Platform and the new government of Norway take well into account. I'm looking forward to the continuation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11160	In a country such as Norway, which produces so much oil and gas — only in September — there was 79 billion. kr in income – and, as a country producing a lot of electricity, ordinary people are going to have to pay sky-high fuel prices and sky-high electricity prices. It's also common people's turn to have to pay for symbol politics by electrifying the socket to over 50 billion. kr. The gas cannot be used in Norway, it must be sent to Europe, because it can be used there – but not in Norway. And then we're going to send the power from Norway out on the socket. It's common people's turn to pay for such symbol politics, now when we see that power prices in South and Middle Norway are reaching the heights of time. It's normal people's turn to pay both one, two, three and four times the power price – and the fuel price – that they normally do. There are common people who have between NOK 5000 and NOK 10000 in extra expenses per month, who have problems paying for themselves now in this country. Today, I have been listening to Minister of Finance Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, who has been very busy with previous government, the Progress Party and everyone else who has made mistakes. I can also look up the 2012 notice from Minister of Oil and Energy Borten Moe, who is cheering over power cables to Germany and that it would not cost anything. But let's get down to it -- we'll put it behind us, and so should the Minister of Finance: put it behind him, look ahead and do the job as Minister of Finance and actually solve the problems of ordinary people. There is a serious situation in Norway today. We're forced to do something to bring down the costs of ordinary people. It's good for the government to signal that someone should do something about the bus pay, but who's gonna hit it? Do ordinary people hit? No, it doesn't – it hits the weakest, which has the smallest income. But when it comes to ordinary people, who are in regular jobs in all of Norway, it's not like the Caffè latte gang in the Environmental Party Dei Green claims that there are only rich people who have to drive in Norway. That's not how it's said, that there are only people in Trysil cabins who need to use power. There are ordinary people who have to warm up their houses, and there are very common people in all of Norway who have to use the car, because there is no other alternative. Then fuel prices can't be as high as they are now, and then we can't have power prices at the current level. The Progress Party can help the Minister of Finance. We have made two suggestions to cut the electricity charge and cut the VAT on electricity. It's going to give you approx. Three thousand to four thousand kroner in direct cuts for each household in November and December together. It gives armstrokes to ordinary people in all of Norway, and then we'll do something that actually matters, as well as the bus pay. I sincerely hope that the Minister of Finance will listen to what I am saying now, listen to that Progress Party in fact beggars. It could bring down the price of ordinary people so people wouldn't freeze – or have to leave the car standing and couldn't run their kids for sports or whatever it might be. We can't have it like that in Norway. So I'm a little worried. We have a minority government, and one has a lot of views of everything possible. Agriculture shall, for example: host so much better. But agriculture is an industry that really hassles with high electricity costs, that uses a lot of fuel, and taxes and taxes also have a framework for that industry. What will happen, then, when this minority government has gone to the elections to remove the bourgeois government and the Progress Party – and they managed with a good choice, congratulations on it – and they must cooperate with the Communists in Red and with the Environmental Party of the Greens and the SV, who will cut oil and gas search in the future? Only in 2022, a base of 277 billion was added. kr in the oil and gas sector. One shall remove the revenue and replace it with expenditure. How to deal with this country and with, for example: the agricultural industry if you have a situation where today's government is going to cooperate on the red-green side – which they're going to do, of course? I think it's going to be hard.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11175	The President will inform the representative Sve that using the term ‘caffè latte-gut’ if a party in the Storting is not right. The President expects other parties and representatives to be referred to with respect, and expects this to be taken into account. If you don't take it into account, this club is used much more often – just so it's informed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11180	We want a new course for our society. It is well described in the Hurdal platform. Small differences, security and trust contribute to more value creation. The OECD has analysed the link between inequality and economic growth, and the conclusion is that increasing inequality contributes to lower economic growth. So we can create more to share by pursuing a policy that leads to less differences, more inclusion, trust and community. The SSB report of the last year shows that differences in Norway have increased considerably. Covid-19 only reinforces the challenges further. The eight-year budget of the right has rewarded the rich and limited or privatised welfare services and our Community solutions. Leader pay has increased, while pensioners and ordinary workers have both lost purchasing power and received reduced welfare services and allowances such as commuting allowances, trade union deductions and holiday pay on leave, to mention some of them. Confidence and security are weakened, and the level of conflict is higher in several areas of our society. The proportion of young people in Norway is now 10.2 p.m. of them between 18 and 67 years of age, and it is increasing. Seven out of ten of the Joint Organisation of Disabilities want an adapted job. They also need security and a worthwhile life, because it is not only the creation of value that is weakened by increasing differences – human dignity, equality and quality of life are also weakened. People have to be listened to, and we all need to. The new government's tasks are huge. The most important resource we have is workers, and we need a lot more of them. I've met a lot of desperate workers in the election campaign. There are railway employees, contractors, truck drivers, taxi drivers, contractors, cleaners, road planners, sensors and inspectors who have all lived closely on the policies of the previous government. Many of them have quit their jobs, others have had to pay down or lose their pension rights as a result of the policies of the Solberg government. We want to use the transport budget for something more than building the necessary infrastructure to build the country together. It shall be used to build competence, innovation, Norwegian solid and serious enterprises and solid jobs throughout the country. It is not done by market forces and competition, with price as the only requirement, but by e.g. developing the tendering system in close dialogue with contractors, trade unions and workers. People need security for and in work. We do not need more agencies or more leaders with high wages, we need more professionals and better predictability, and we need to reduce climate emissions in the transport sector. Therefore, we will fight social dumping in the transport sector and ensure that transport investment strengthens Norwegian companies with Norwegian wage and working conditions, and we will set climate and innovation requirements in our tenders. Unfortunately, it has become that the national transport plan is no longer a tool that gives predictability to them around us. The aftermath is large and now it's 27 billion. kr. In addition, all exceedances occur, e.g. on intercity, which must also be resolved. The Solberg government has used the next government action room for large OPS projects, down-priority state roads and our coast. The operating costs on the road have now increased by 72 pst, and the expectations out there are great for the next government. These tasks are considerable, but there will finally be a new course for Norway and for our transport sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11195	By laying the foundation for more jobs in the private sector, we also facilitate safe and good life in cities, in the countryside and along our coast. Businesses need the industry. Yes, our entire business needs the right skills. Several companies now report that labour shortages with the right skills prevent further growth and value creation. I can promise the government that the Right will make proposals on a proposal that people and businesses will have access to the skills they need. Here we promise to help the government make a strong commitment. The pace of transition towards a greener and more digitised Norway depends to a large extent on our politicians giving our businesses the opportunity to invest in innovation, R & D and innovation. It's our business that's the spearhead of the green shift. It's the jobs in the private sector that are supposed to fund the welfare of our kids and our grandchildren. Then it is gratifying that although we have been standing in the middle of a pandemic, Norway now has a business boom. We have a high-recorded number of startups. At the same time, we see that there is a great deal of interest in establishing new industries in Norway. The competitiveness of industry towards the rest of the world has improved significantly. This is very good. I've read the business platform. What strikes me is that there's a lot of state here, there's a lot of government government -- the answer to most of it is that the state will have more government. The representative of Aasland said earlier in the debate today that everyone received the platform in a fantastic way, and that there was no criticism to trace anywhere. But that's not so strange, because the platform doesn't exist in concrete terms. It's a lot of words, but you don't build the country using words. It is built by action, which is why there is little cause for concern when we see that action is the state that will stand for when it comes to business policy. But now it is so vague, and there are so many electoral campaign formulations so far that the Central Party and the Labour Party have agreed, that we are going to give the government a chance and an opportunity to put forward concrete measures on how to create the new green jobs. Greenhouse gas emissions are falling. The green shift in business is going on for too much. SMEs around the country innovate and invest in the green shift. But from now on, the state has to take over. I understand that it is an intrusive idea for many to let the state take more control. It sounds ok, especially in a country that has such high confidence in the public sector, but it has never been a success that the country is turning into a private business. We might have examples that it hasn't worked so well. In the Right, we believe that the state should be an active supporter of the companies. The government seems to think that the state knows best, and that the state should go ahead and squander private initiative and entrepreneurial spirit. We have seen horror examples from the past at government taxpayers' parties in business, and there has been no nice sight. It is therefore surprising that the government, after so many examples of adverse consequences of state-making of industrial policy, again wants a radical reversal of Norwegian industrial policy, and that we are going back to the 1970s' industrial policy. It is, as the Manifesto claims, a radical shift. It makes it harder to start, own and run businesses. This in turn will lead to fewer profitable companies paying taxes and creating jobs. We all agree that we want more green jobs. We want a greener industry. Then it's the wrong medicine to charge our business increased taxes and not let them go ahead and be the spearhead that they want to be in the green shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11212	I am disappointed, disappointed that we did not get a new red-green government. Instead, we've got a new government that I don't know what to call – the Hurdal thread, maybe? In any case, the name is not mistaken as long as you don't get ashamed of yourself. The new government now has the choice of being called the grey centre government and seeking red-green cooperation. We in SV have to get up every morning to deliver results for our voters. What was our two most important issues in this election campaign was Difference Norway and the environment. If the government doesn't deliver powerful change on these two, I think a lot of red-green voters, including in the Working Party and the Center Party, will be disappointed. This platform is too weak in terms of both power and wealth and climate and nature. The Minister of Transport is in the Chamber. I would like to say that in the field of transport, at least we in SV must be constructive in order to achieve good red-green solutions – for rail and roads, not climate-friendly motorways and prestigious national road projects. For transport, so much more is involved – about soft road users, bicycle paths, charging stations and ferries and trains on electricity and hydrogen. It is much better to build far and safe than wide and expensive. In addition, Norway has very good conditions to sit at the levers and be at the forefront of aviation electrification. I would like to remind the government that the Hurdal Declaration is clear. It says that we need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector and contribute to achieving our international climate commitments. But how we're going to achieve these goals is unfortunately impossible to find answers to on the platform from the new government, and if we just continue to do and run in the transport sector, one won't go far. Unfortunately, I do not see any clear signals as to which grip to take as monks. The transport sector accounts for about one third of all greenhouse gas emissions in Norway, which are to be halved by 2030. We don't have much time, folks! We in SV believe that we need changes in the transport sector in the future. It is necessary to give priority to environmentally friendly transport, to introduce high environmental taxes and to cut environmentally hostile motorway projects. I had hoped that a new government would be more clear about this. That is why, since the Minister of Transport is sitting in the Chamber, I have three concrete challenges I hope to get answers from the government. Firstly, it is necessary to rotate the large sums from climate-resilient motorways and high-precision national road projects to railway and other collective solutions and to pedestrian and cycle routes. Succeeded in the maintenance of county roads a large, and NTP shows too little commitment to this. It is clear that we need about 70 billion. kr to cover the drain. New motorways create more private cars and increased greenhouse gas emissions and are land-intensive and expensive. We therefore need to scale down unnecessary motorway projects, repair existing roads and have road safety of national and county roads in the districts and prioritize public transport throughout the country. Secondly, today’s NTP suggests that motorways should be built before modern, two-track rail in important corridors. At best, they have to be built at the same time. There is a safe grip to hit the legs under the foundation of the railway. Is this government's policy? If not – what sections of the route are priorities for the government? Thirdly, electrically driven ferries are on full-time service in Norway, as are zero-emission trucks and plant machinery. Rules, charging policies and support measures may speed up the transition of the whole transport sector towards zero emissions. Will the government, for example, compensating county councils for the increased costs of a transition to zero-emission ferries? These were more questions than I expect answers to in the debate, so I hesitate to say 'to be continued'.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11233	The labour policy shall be based on respect for the honest work of ordinary people and shall ensure good pay, regular employment and full employment and a safe pension for all, said Prime Minister Gahr Støre in the Declaration of Accession on Monday. For us in Oslo, which has the lowest proportion of government employees of all the counties in this country, and where 75 pst. by employees working in the private sector, this is essential. 51,000 of them work in the grocery store here in Oslo. And even though Norwegian working life for most people is safe and well organized, we often hear too often about a working life that is not the way we want it to be. In trade in goods, a women's field, part-time fractions flourish, and employees must constantly hunt for several hours. Thousands of women have a job they can't live off. HK leader Christopher Beckham drew up in his opening speech to the national meeting last Friday – a 25-year-old woman who works in a 30 p.m. position. Hanne decided to say no to a trip with grandmother because she might get a guard. She had to be ready all the time in hopes of getting more work. To always be on and never be completely free in a 30 pst position is unworthy. The right of preference for increased employment and the right to full-time must be strengthened, and we can do so by requiring employers to document the need for part-time employment. The low tariff level of private service and service industries is alarming. Even more alarming are the announcements of activities that pressure employees to remain in an unorganised working life, at the latest on yesterday’s E24 survey on employees in the TESS, Norway’s largest supplier of industrial hoses, where the company reports that employees in collective bargaining departments are not allowed to participate in bonus schemes, occupational clothing grants, dental expenses, car compensation in addition to the national rates or health insurance or accident insurance offered to other employees. TESS is one of many companies that act anti-organisational, and where stories only appear when people give up and choose to quit. Aleksander Jensen, one of the employees of the TESS, says that management's warnings about the removal of goods appear to be threatening, and that systematic counter-work of trade union organisation has helped him to quit the job. Previously, we've heard about Elkopen, Power, XXL and many more. It's unsustainable. Through Norway's membership of the ILO, we have an obligation to promote and hedge the right to organise and facilitate collective bargaining rights for workers. Therefore, Prime Minister Gahr Støre’s bids in the Organisational Declaration on high levels of organisation and strong professional organisations as the core of the Norwegian working life model are also so important. This is what gives Norway great ability to adapt and productivity. The model represents a unique competitive advantage for Norway – so correct. It needs to be made easier to organise. A doubling of the trade-union deduction and the reintroduction of collective redress will be important contributions to success. The government's desire for closer and more committed tripartite cooperation and strengthened local party cooperation will help to make the important work of the labour market more visible and strengthen the position of collective agreements and contribute to the important work of raising low pay, which, according to a recent Fafo report, now counts over 600 000 workers, mainly in the private sector: cleaners, shopkeepers, nursery assistants and unskilled in the municipalities with over 16 years of pay. Low pay is well below the average wage for industrial workers in Norway. One of the key findings of the Fafo report is that it pays to have a collective agreement. We'll have more of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11248	It is with both great relief and optimism that I stand here today and keep my very first post in this pouring period. I am relieved because the matter that got me involved in national policy initially, namely, the violent and misleading centralisation of services, power, resources and jobs that the government of Solberg has managed in all its constellations, is now to stop. A number of new regional policy measures are now coming under government — absolutely necessary, because we need more geographical cohesion in society. People have to feel safe, have education, have jobs and access to public services near them across our country. The second feeling I know here is optimism. It comes from the fact that the new government is going to smooth out the growing differences in society, and it will strengthen the efforts in many of the other fields for which I am particularly committed – such as culture and volunteering. The government has said that the cultural budget will come up to 1 pst. The share of the state budget, which is a much larger share than under the government before us, as before the pandemic they would rather reduce that share. Now it's going up, and first of all it's about our new cultural promise, a regional and local cultural promise. There will be an extra focus on getting more cultural jobs and competences around the country. We are going to set up regional cultural funds and strengthen the film industry, not least regionally. We're going to give municipalities more money to go with, which will benefit the culture, while building up the cultural base wall, like the libraries, the cultural school, the decentralised cultural houses, and the cultural school bag and the walking stick. And we're going to make an extra effort to ensure the diversity of local media in the future, which can tell about all the art and culture to be lifted around. Finally, we must also have a read-only strategy and a library promise, which the previous government, for totally incomprehensible reasons of death and life, would not have when we repeatedly suggested it – yet the proportion that reads falls dramatically here to land, especially among children and young people. Something else the previous government repeatedly said no when the Central Party made proposals during the previous period, is now also being honoured by the new government, namely full VAT compensation for volunteering, sport and voluntary culture. This has been the struggle of volunteering since the 2000s, and even though other parties have agreed through it that it is too wrong for voluntary teams and associations to pay taxes on their dues, no one has fulfilled the claim until now. It has been a celebration to experience how happy teams and associations around the country have been for this news – not least since it is of particular importance for the volunteering of the very challenging pandemic. Rebuilding volunteering, sport and culture after covid-19 together with other industries that have been hard hit by the pandemic will also be one of the most important tasks ahead, for both the government and us on the Stortinget. The same is true of getting more jobs and of being able to cut greenhouse gas emissions in line with our commitments while at the same time getting new green jobs across the country – not least in industry, which is important in my dear Telemark, because it is possible with the potential Norway has as world leader in renewable energy and technology. The Government Declaration contains a number of measures to facilitate this. Of course, we need to make more and better use of our natural resources and ensure national control over them and provide enough electricity. However, it is not least that it is important for the State to set up venture capital and incentives in the first place – such as establishing a green state investment fund, strengthening existing instruments and committing us to long-term investment in several industrial areas. In conclusion, among all the good policies in the Hurdal platform, I would like to point out another of the most important areas for which we are finally going to have a completely necessary boost, namely mental health protection. Until 2009, we had a stepping-up plan for mental health protection that really built up the service. The opposite has happened in recent years. Just at the District Psychiatric Center on Notodden, where I come from, there are now hardly any psychiatrists left in contrast to what it was like just ten years ago. It makes it challenging for individuals who are being affected, but also for society as a whole, because it's not exactly the case that under the bourgeois population there has been fewer mental disorders and plagues. Fortunately, we now have a new escalation plan in this area. It's time! But it had to be a change of government for it, and that change of government was definitely also in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11267	I get enough orders on trips to pay the loan on the house. It was one of the taxi drivers that I put on this summer, who told me. For many, the optimism was about to come back to Norway after a long shutdown, but the taxi driver was still concerned. He grunted at the consequences of the uncontrolled taxi policy of the Right-Registration: fewer trips, less payment. Sometimes in politics, it's easy to see who wins on a case, and who loses on it. But here both the drivers, who are the workers, and the passengers, whether it's young people, older people or patients who need a safe offer, predictable, all day long, throughout the country. Maybe you ask anyway: can't everyone lose? Does anyone have to win because it's been pushed through? That's right. The big money that is going in and thus humiliating the flow of drivers' honest work are the ones that win. Now, when it's going to be the turn of ordinary people, it's not just a very good message. It is the working form of the Workers' Party-Centre-Registration, and it is possible for many individuals to gain security for both the economy and the family. The taxi drivers are therefore those who have received less work and less paid. If you can imagine that someone is implementing a change in the law that makes real estate agents get so few jobs and so little income that they are struggling to pay off the mortgage on their own home, then I know that the Right comes up here and responds. That's why we are reacting to what's happened to our taxi drivers, because now we're going to build justice, optimism, faith in the future and stability in this city as well. When the economy weakens, it also goes beyond the growing conditions of many kids, and we know that there are different and many urban areas in Oslo extra hard. So if the uncontrolled release in the taxi industry had continued, there would be a torpedo for increasing differences in Oslo. Not only are we going to use transport policy deliberately in the future to balance differences. We also need to create a modern way of thinking, so that we can achieve more societal goals at the same time as we invest in infrastructure. When taxpayers' money is invested in large projects, we need to build up under a forward-looking, environmentally friendly and employee-friendly construction industry, which gives us both higher value creation and lower emissions. And not least, we're going to demand that those who receive such assignments on behalf of all of us, of course, bring young people and apprentices to work so that we build confidence and skills for tomorrow's trade unionists. We believe that this is fair and reasonable, because this is the case here at Stortinget, we are not under-utilisation of narrow interests. We are ordinary people's most important tool for security and justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11285	The new government is taking over at a time when we can see that the economic crisis is behind us. There will still be some aftereffects that need to be addressed also in the coming years: long-term unemployment, children and young people who have lost valuable time in school and have learning gaps, and those who are struggling with mental health challenges. But there's now high activity in the economy. The arrows point in the right direction, and we're most likely on the way into a moderate economic recovery to next year. Norway has a good starting point for further migration. Norway is now less oil dependent and more competitive. When we were hit by the oil price drop in 2014, Norway lost about 80 000 jobs related to petroleum-oriented industries. Over a few years, more than 120 000 new jobs were created in other sectors of the private sector. It says something about how adaptable the Norwegian economy is, especially with close and good cooperation between employees and employers and many who invest and create new jobs. A few weeks after Norway was closed down in March 2020, we had over 400,000 unemployed and left out in Norway. Now the number of totally unemployed people is lower than it was before the crisis. Employment among residents in Norway is highest since 2012. There are still new messages from companies that lack labour. The common feature of major economic crises is increased exclusion and, more often, lower employment over time. Now we have the highest employment rate among residents in Norway since 2012. It gives us a very unique starting point to succeed in raising employment and getting more people to work. It's important for the individual, but it's also important for us as a society, because it's the workforce that creates values and is also the basis for future well-being. However, if we are to succeed in this, competence policy must be pursued and strengthened in the coming years. We've been getting a lot of work done over the last few years, with the possibility of combining daily money and education, professional letters at work, modular education, industry programmes in cooperation between the social partners. This provides a basis for those who are licensed or unemployed and those who are in employment to increase their skills and help companies to acquire the skills they need to continue and to make new investments. In the longer term, education policy is our most important tool. Over the past eight years, the number and proportion of high school graduates have increased from about 72 pst. for about 80 pst. It may be one of the most important results, especially in the field of education, from recent years. The fact that young people receive a diploma or further study is also the entrance ticket to the labour market. But there is also my concern, because when I read the Hurdal platform, there are no goals or ambitions for even more people to complete high school. On the other hand, the platform is very clear on what to reverse. You have to reverse what we know works: well-qualified teachers with professional depression. It is necessary to eliminate four-time requirements for access to teacher training, which has been an important tool for more people to complete their teacher training. It is also necessary to reverse the requirement for teachers to have depression in Norwegian, English and math, at least for those trained before 2014. We need a strong commitment to competence policy in the future. I can promise the new government that we will be constructive in the opposition, but we will also be clear in the areas where we see that the policy fails in practice. I'm concerned about the willingness to bet on what works in school, namely knowledge, quality and good teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11304	Finally, the common people's turn. Congratulations on that. For the Progress Party, it is important that people decide whether they are ordinary or not, but that people have more control over their lives, and that politicians and bureaucrats have less power. We believe that well-being is best enhanced by making people decide more about their own income. Lower taxes include increased room for action and better well-being for families most across the country. The government statement tells us that the total tax burden should not be increased. However, we have already confirmed that the tax bill for most people is increasing. Fuzzy program formulations about fuel prices have been cleared up by our new climate minister, who has said that fuel prices will increase. So now sky-high fuel prices have to be made even higher, with tax increases that hit the hardest those who have the least, and that depend on the car in their everyday life. Many of them are families with children who are not closest to either kindergarten or school. If the government really believes that it is the turn of ordinary people, it should contribute to lower fuel prices and not vice versa. But I do not expect SV to agree with this in particular. There is a record level of electricity prices in many places in the country. This is done at the same time as the public receives extra large revenues from power exports and taxes. If the government is really concerned with the everyday lives of ordinary people, it must give priority to lower taxes rather than making it even richer at high electricity prices. Changes in housing support are too narrow, and therefore the Progress Party has made proposals to eliminate electricity taxes and VAT on electricity to Norwegian households out of the year. It will mean a lot to those who are struggling with high electricity costs. Ordinary people don't necessarily afford a new electric car, and battery operation is not a practical solution for everyone. The government will introduce partial electricity cars but will at the same time maintain the competitive advantage of the electric car. Then I fear that this will mean an even higher one-time charge on conventional cars. It will again hit most of those who have the lowest incomes, and restrict people's choices. Also, the government platform is not entirely free of a bit of worn-out ideological jaw paws that are to be whipped to blood. The government's announced fight against private initiatives and service providers just shows this, especially in the welfare field. Should the service no longer be assessed on the basis of objective criteria such as quality, price and satisfaction of users? As long as the form of the company gets its place in the shop, it's secondary to whether the service gets both more expensive and worse. The most important thing is that it happens in public. Accompanied by a business and industrial policy Norway has not seen the case since the 1960s, private initiatives should now increasingly have to give way to a more active state. Individuals should be deliberately deprived of their creativity and creativity by reducing the profitability of creating new products and developing new services in the private sector. Now it may seem that it is the turn of ordinary politicians to adopt the economic development of this country, not ordinary people and the market. It will challenge the welfare of the future. Let me, for example. refer to the nursery sector. If, over the last 18 years, there is one sector that has proved beneficial to the public's inability to provide alone a good and diverse range of services in the welfare field, it is precisely the nursery sector. We must pay homage to that and not smurf. Private offers as a complement to the public are a good and not a problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11319	In the election of the year, the voters showed clearly that they wanted a political change. They no longer wanted the bourgeois unfair policy we have had for eight years. They wanted a policy for ordinary people all over the country. Our policy is clear. We will create security in and for work, ensure a fair climate policy, strengthen welfare services, reduce differences and give children and families with poor advice more to walk with. Digitalisation, climate change and political conflicts characterise large parts of the world today. Many people experience insecurity and unforeseeability. Climate, political instability and persecution lead to people making out of flight, and children starve. The pandemic has shown that people exposed to serious illness need stronger communities in and between countries. And the pandemic is like a magnifying glass of the differences that exist, here at home and in the world too. This government will do something about it. At national and international level, we will work to get more people in work, a fair economic policy, good and well-functioning welfare services and a climate policy that many people are ending up with. There is a need for a policy that brings together and builds bridges. In Norway and other countries, we experience divisions between people and groups, that false news and conspiracy theories have taken place in political parties and governments. Ultranationalism and anti-globalism have been rooted. Often this policy is linked to a different policy of separation and exclusion, namely a policy that excludes Muslims, Jews, women, LHBTIs, refugees and disabled people. Norway shall be a clear vote against such a policy. Our foreign policy is based on justice, democracy and equality. Let me start at home, in the north. Nordic cooperation and Northern Region policy shall be re-examined. People-to-people cooperation through Barents cooperation and Arctic cooperation will be strengthened. It is to safeguard Norway’s interests in the north and is both forward-looking and absolutely necessary. The situation of women has become worse in several places in the world both because of an emerging conservative policy in many countries and as a result of the pandemic. Conservative policies threaten women's independence. They are made vulnerable by unfair, discriminatory and oppressive policies. Decisions on women's lives and situation are restricted. The right to abortion, to be responsible for family planning and prevention itself, and the right to become financially autonomous are threatened. Women are particularly affected by adverse consequences due to closures and movement restrictions. Violence against women has increased, and their financial autonomy has been set back many years. It's scary. Women in all countries are fully capable of making decisions about and in their own lives. I am pleased that the Hurdal platform is so clear that women's rights must be strengthened, not only at home, but also in foreign policy. The Hurdal Platform also states that our development policy should be anchored in the UN Sustainable Development Goals. We want to use 1 pst. of gross national income to achieve the objectives of social, economic and environmental sustainability. Tripartite cooperation underpins our international trade policy. We want to secure basic standards in trade agreements and base them on the ILO core conventions. The representative Erna Solberg expresses disappointment at our commitment to the marine environment. I think she has forgotten our current Prime Minister's statement at the National Labour Party meeting: ‘The next major international initiative to be taken by Norway is on the sea.’ Now the oatmeal is on the international agenda. Among other things, it was the theme of the meeting of the G7 Group, a meeting where Erna Solberg attended. We must build trust and democracy and show solidarity in our international policies. I invite Erna Solberg and the rest of Stortinget to broad solutions on our foreign and defence policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11343	We only have one planet, and it's not just an inheritance from our ancestors, but also a loan from our children. In this there is a commitment and a responsibility. This is when we have to reduce emissions and slow down dangerous climate change. It is now possible to contribute to social, economic and environmental sustainability in the world. That's when we have to act. Norway has a good starting point. Emissions are on their way down. We have world-leading technology environments, maybe the world's best skilled workers, adaptive and innovative enterprises, high trust and relatively small differences, and we have capital. It'll be all right. We're going through an enormous transformation as a society towards 2030 and 2050. If we play our cards right, it won't be the end of anything good, it'll be the start of something better. Norway needs to take advantage of the natural benefits we have, expand more renewable energy at sea, facilitate the upgrading of existing hydroelectric power plants and the gentle expansion of protected watercourses where it is compatible with the protection values, and we need to continue the development of the transmission network in Norway, so that the power to reach those who need it is at an acceptable price for both ordinary people, industry and business. We need to use the expertise we have in the offshore and shipping industries, actively in the green shift and contribute to the development of cost-effective solutions that can also be used by the rest of the world. We have industrial competence and natural conditions to deal with major new investments, and a lot is already happening: there are five large battery plants under planning in Norway. The world's largest floating offshore wind farm is under construction. Northern Europe’s largest biogas plant is located in Forest. In re-use, re-use and recycling, there is a high potential for new solutions, businesses and workplaces, and hydrogen is another strategic field of investment that has gained co-wind under the Solberg Government and where the basis is for a blue and green future. If we are to succeed in converting green technologies into profitable jobs, the state must take an active but not activistic role. Enova, Innovation Norway and Nysnø are important instruments. But we also need to pursue an industrial policy that makes it attractive to bet in and from Norway. What we don't need now is more taxes and a state that picks tomorrow's winners. The OECD has estimated that 4 200 billion must be invested by 2030. dollars in developing countries alone if the world is to meet the sustainability targets and the 2030 agenda. It says something about the enormous opportunities Norway and Norwegian companies have to develop technologies and environmental measures that not only reduce our own footprint in the world but that contribute to global development and emission reductions, and that must be the goal. We're going to cut emissions, not evolution, both here at home and globally. If we are to succeed, we must use the market in the service of the environment. The market is known as a wretched gentleman, but perhaps the most efficient server we have. We have to make sure that it pays to be environmentally friendly and that it costs to pollute, and it has to apply to all industries and to both ordinary and unusual people. When the green option gives black numbers on the bottom line, a snowball starts rolling that doesn't stop. A good and inspiring example is from the proud coal state of Kentucky. There they have a coal museum, and that museum gets energy from solar cells. When the head of the museum was asked if this was not a paradox, he replied affirmatively and added: but that was the cheapest thing. It will not be easy to achieve climate targets globally, nor will it be easy to achieve them in Norway. I am pleased that the government is following up the ambitious climate change target of the previous government by 2030 and that cooperation with the EU and annual emissions budgets by 2030 is firm. However, there is reason to worry that the Hurdal platform is clearer about the exemptions from climate action to be introduced, such as: in the CO 2 tax, than the new measures to be introduced to achieve the objectives. If there is one thing that is absolutely certain, it is that all the actors to implement the green shift in the next few years need predictability, predictability of what framework conditions will apply. It is only nine years until 2030, and it takes time to introduce new climate action. It takes, for example: for many years to realise full scale sea wind production, but the future refuses to wait. Therefore, it is urgent for the government to promote its new, alerted climate plan. Right-wing calls for proposals today that the government should come back with the plan by the end of February, and hopes for broad support in the UK. In just two weeks, the world’s country will meet at its 26th climate summit in Glasgow. It is referred to as the most important meeting since Paris in 2015. Norway should and must be a driver of global climate change work. The Solberg Government promoted a number of Norwegian positions in its draft State budget for 2022, among others. a doubling of Norway’s climate aid by 2025, a sharp escalation of climate adaptation funds and an climate investment fund of 10 billion. kr contributing to investments in renewable energy in developing countries. It is completely unclear whether the government is continuing the positions of the Solberg government. I assume that the Minister for Climate and Environment is anchoring the positions the government has been planning to promote in Glasgow, in a suitable way in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11365	The Hurdal platform shows a clear, new direction for the country. A main issue for the Labour Party-Center Party government that one hears in the debate today is to suppress increasing inequality in society – giving people back power over their own everyday lives. It's a reality and a problem that the state has retreated in the last eight years under the rule of the Right. It is a fact that the outgoing government has led a policy that increases the differences between people, both economically and geographically. There is no doubt: district policy must be strengthened and renewed. The policy of government, which so many people are talking about today, will lead to optimism and a threat to the future throughout the country. Our country is both large and long, and we have to exploit the possibilities that are in Norway. For example, in North Norway: We need a stronger policy to turn the population down to growth. The government has great ambitions for new programmes where a new approach to rural policy will be particularly important for the northern part of the country. We need a powerful rural policy that points forward, and we see that in the Hurdal Declaration. It is a terrible old-fashioned thing that one today has to sit in the car and run for hours to arrange simple things, services that one should either be able to solve digitally, or that one should be able to arrange through the local nearby service centre and service square, which the government has in its statement. The Labour Party is a party for both the city and the country. That's what we see from the platform. Here, it is also important to highlight the need to strengthen the territorial effort in the major cities and to smooth out the living conditions challenges. There are great ambitions for the local government sector. The Labour Party-Center Party policy should contribute to better quality of welfare, care and education – for teachers, nurses, health professionals and all those working in the municipal sector, which is a first line in our welfare services. At the same time, they have a very important role to play in the transition to the low-carbon society and in social housing. We will need to strengthen the Municipalities' toolbox and create new solutions, as the platform clearly points out. Mudassar Kapur from the Right, with whom I will probably discuss a lot in the future, may not have read the platform with the most positive glasses on, because one of the most important projects of this government is trust reform. During the entire previous ageing period, we worked in the Labour Party – quite nine-time, over several years – to pave the way for the reform of trust. Now we are going to implement it together with the social partners. The reform shall restore confidence, time and power to those who make up the first line and who are backboned in the welfare state, such as the teachers, the nurses, the police officers and the staff. We need to eliminate unnecessary, detailed and rigid requirements and target management that take time away from the societal mission that they actually have in the first line. Many added to our welfare services spend more time on paperwork, control procedures and reporting on the same information several times. Many are measured by so-called indicators that do not capture what really counts for service quality. For example, adding children’s and adolescents’ psychiatry tells them that they use as much as a quarter of the time to code and record and not to treat. It cannot continue, and there is a clear direction for the Workers' Party and the Centre's Party in the platform. The work on trust reform must now be under way, and it will be one of the most important projects for the renewal of the public sector and for better services for people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11380	Norway is a slightly different country. Most countries may say this about themselves, but what's a little special about our country is that we've taken the whole country into use. It's bustet and value creation and activity in cities, towns and villages all over our country. A basic premise for this, and one reason for that, is that we have a fine masked transport network across the country, a service for the transport of cars, ferries, speedboat routes, rails, air traffic, trams and buses, and an increasingly digital communications network. We have developed efficient transport systems in the largest cities, but we also have an offer for those who live outside, both because people in the whole country are going to be connected to and be part of our community, and also because the value creation doesn't necessarily reflect the population. Many cities in our country have great value creation despite low population numbers. The transport system binds the country together. It is an indispensable part of everyday life for people and businesses, and for the Central Party, further development of this infrastructure is an important priority. The transport system in the future shall be more secure, more efficient and more environmentally friendly. The new government statement marks a shift in several areas of transport policy. The changes mean something to people's and businesses' everyday lives. Reduced flight prices on the short-haul network are important for the company owner on Helgelandskysten and for the student in Volda. Reduced ferry prices mean something to business along the coast of the Mediterranean and commuters in the fjords. Free ferry to those communities that have no alternative, ensures a chance to both bow and create values on the islands and in communities along our entire coast. A commitment to collective projects in and around our big cities takes advantage of the daily lives of the big cities. It is a transport policy for the whole country. The government also announces that access to high-speed Internet will be a straight line with stream, and that all households where there are people will have high-speed broadband by 2025. This point is incredibly important. Everyone should be able to participate in digital development. It opens up opportunities for people to choose more freely in our country, for more jobs to spread across the country, for new jobs to be created and existing jobs to be secured throughout our country. If the opposition doesn't get excited, at least I think a lot of the inhabitants and businesses around our country are getting excited. An election campaign gives many opportunities to meet with people. One that set the track was when I met young children's parents in Oldedalen who sent their kids along a raspy school road. They said, "Worst is it when we as parents look out of the window and ask each other if we dare send the kids on the school bus today." The work on ensuring the route is very important. I am very pleased that the government has announced an implementation plan to ensure the most tailored roads. Last, but not least: our transport system must also become more climate-friendly. Several charging points, more shore-side electricity in ports, bioenergy investment in transport, climate-friendly heavy traffic infrastructure, development of hydrogen solutions for maritime transport – there are important measures to reduce emissions from our transport sector. It is claimed from the opposition that the government statement does not create enthusiasm. Yes, I get to say as we sometimes say up in Nordfjord: Shall we bet?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11399	Since this is the first time I have spoken as a newly elected climate and environment minister, I would like to start by saying that I am looking forward to good cooperation with the Stortinget on what we in the Hurdal platform say is the most important challenge of our time. It's a huge task, it's a demanding task, and it's an exciting task, because it's going to be combined with creating good, fine life in the whole country, where everyone's going to go, in a way that makes us get out of the transition we're about to undergo, in a way that we can be proud of. That means that climate policy must deliver the cuts that are to be made in both the quota and non-quota sectors, and so we have very clear targets for that in the declaration. This means that climate policy must create new green jobs across the country, and that means that it is an imperative, even for climate policy itself, that it appears to be fair both geographically and socially, because if we do not have people with us, we will not succeed in this great generation challenge to which it has fallen upon us in our time to respond. Then I'm very proud that we're very clear that we're not just going to set targets, but we're also going to plan on how to achieve them, sector by sector, year by year, with clear climate emissions budgets. Yes, we have said nothing less than that the climate emissions budget, or the carbon budget, should be as governing the economy as the money budget, so that future budgetary conferences will be simply future carbon budget conferences, where we have the emissions we have left. We're going to do this in a way that builds new industries. I look forward very much to broad cooperation across the entire government and all sectors of society, with industry, with transport, with fish and agriculture, with energy supply – at all levels of society – to building climate partnerships, solid agreements between the state and the different industries and the different sectors of society on how to achieve these objectives, what the sector can contribute to itself, what the state must contribute, and what the overall leadership is, and how we achieve them. The representative Astrup asked about the coming climate summit in Glasgow. I would like to come back with more details about it, but I would like to say briefly that we are going to support the ambitious ambitions of the British Presidency, supported by the EU, the United States and a number of other leading countries, namely to keep the 1.5 degree target within reach. It's more than just words, and it's more than a number, because in recent years we've learned about the huge difference in outcomes if we land at 1.5 degrees or close to it, versus that we go over 2 degrees of heating. There's a huge difference, and it's important to keep up with the possibility of reaching the 1.5 degree point, that's to stop the heating within 1.5 degrees. There will be an important delivery from this meeting: to grab hold of it to succeed in it. Then we need to contribute to strengthening climate finance and to helping those countries that need help, both to prevent the climate crisis and to adapt to the climate change that is coming in any case. Thirdly, there is a shortage of important issues that deal with completing the rules books, the norms and principles that will govern climate policy from now on, in an even more important phase than the one we've had until now. It's really going to be a very important meeting. Then I want to remind you that we not only have a climate crisis, we also have a natural crisis. The natural crisis and the climate crisis are closely linked, they affect each other negatively, but they also have to be understood as two different things. In addition to bringing emissions down and moving to a more renewable economy, we need to make sure that we move into a more circular economy, that we end up with use-and-throwing and learn how to use resources again. It's also job cutting. It's actually so that there's a lot of good economy in making the economy more circular, more sustainable. Not only will it last longer, but it creates jobs throughout the country. This is an incredibly large and important agenda, and I hope for a very good cooperation on this. There's going to be different views on how much the market solves alone, how much the state will contribute, and how that interaction will appear, but I hope we can agree that the question is no longer whether we're going to achieve the climate goals, but how we're going to get there most quickly, most efficiently and in the most fair way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11418	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11423	First, let me congratulate the Council of State on a new job. This is going to be a demanding and important task, and I hope you get your fellow state councillors with you on the big shift that we as society are now really going through by 2030. I asked in my post a question to the Council of State if the Council of State was going to maintain the positions promoted by the Solberg government against Glasgow, namely to double the climate aid towards 2025, to set up a climate investment fund of 10 billion. kr and increase the means of climate adaptation, to mention something. The Council of State represents a minority government, and he's going to go to Glasgow before the additional proposition from the government comes, so it's important that we in the Grand Council know what positions the Council of State is going to take to Glasgow, completely concretely.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11430	I thank you for the question. I would also like to say that I look forward to good cooperation on these issues in the years to come. As I mentioned in my article, contributions to climate finance are a very central part of Glasgow and will of course also be important to us. It can be done, among other things: in support of meeting climate change, e.g. start-up of more renewable energy. There, the Hurdal Platform has put particular emphasis on the main thrust of development policy, as well as in other support schemes, and similarly in relation to climate adaptation. So in terms of the exact positions, we've been sitting in the chair for five days. We're working with them, and I'm taking the challenge of getting back to Stortinget with details around it. But the questions that the representative Astrup mentions are just some of the most central questions for this meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11438	Thanks for the answer. I look forward to further follow-up by the Council of State and wish him luck, of course, in Glasgow. So the Hurdal platform is clear on what goals apply to how much we're going to cut the emissions, and that's positive. At the same time, the platform is very clear on which exemptions from climate action should also be granted, but less clear on which new measures to be introduced to achieve the objectives that we agree on are ambitious and good. So the question is: what concrete measures does the Council of States see for itself to be put in place to strengthen the climate plan and to help us achieve the objectives by 2030? Can he mention two-three good examples that contribute to significant emission reductions?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11445	I can name a lot of people. An important principle is that the polluter should pay and that it must be more expensive to emit CO 2. That's why we want to increase the CO 2 price by 2030 up to NOK 2 000, like the climate plan we're dealing with, and that was a broad debate about here in ours. But then we also say that it should not only be more expensive to pollute, it should also be easier to let go, and the big community must contribute significantly more than the previous government provided, and make those choices really possible. For example, a forced development of low infrastructure across the country will make it easier for people to make the green choices that in practice contribute to the reduction of emissions. In the work we are now going to do with climate partnerships for different industries, we will, for example: look at how we can enforce the decarbonisation of the industry we already have. Here are the very exciting plans in the Norwegian process industry that we want to support, and then we're talking about emission cuts that are equivalent to quite a thousand years of meat-free Monday at the hospital, i.e. emission cuts as real monks.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11456	Let me then ask you a question about another important climate action: the ban on ant cultivation – it is a measure that can save us almost half a million tonnes by 2030. Is there a relevant measure to be assessed in the new, reinforced climate plan, with which the government will hopefully come forward by the end of February 2022?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11461	We stress that it is very important to also exploit nature's own ability to store carbon, and ants, wetlands, forests, etc. is a very central part of it. It makes little sense to build carbon capture plants if, at the same time, you undermine nature's own ability to win carbon. That's why I'm very happy that we got a majority here in this spring that made it clear that you can't give a series of exceptions without it being part of a whole plan that takes into account, among other things. both natural and carbon-binding values. So we're going to use nature's natural capacity for carbon storage, and we're going to set our own targets for how it can increase, as well as the targets we set for carbon conservation. Because we have to cut both greenhouse gas emissions and strengthen nature's ability to bind carbon itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11466	I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity to congratulate Barth Eide on the post of the Council of State. We will cooperate closely in the matter. We have a big challenge in Norway. We want a living community and agriculture throughout the country, but it's not consistent with the problem we have especially when it comes to the wolf and predatory problem in grazing priority areas. I myself have seats in predatory game subjects, and that's a big problem. The question is simply: does the new government intend to ensure that predators are able to deal with the predatory question, so that there are neither wolves nor other predators in the grazing priority areas of the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11473	The answer to that is yes. It is at least our ambition that we should ensure that we have a very clear management of the looting agreement that the Storting has entered into, and that there should be rapid and effective processes when the population exceeds it, but of course within the framework of the Nature Diversity Act and the Berne Convention. We think there's room for that. We will contribute to this through both administrative decisions and by other means, with that very purpose, in the case of particularly grazing priority areas. I believe that for many years this could have been handled with a more nominal hand in terms of reducing the level of conflict. Although it is a profitable hope, I hope to be able to contribute to a lower level of conflict around this, and then it is important that there is also respect for what the Storting has actually decided on, for example. target population and that they should be followed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11478	I also need to take advantage of the opportunity to congratulate myself on a very important task. ‘Minister for Climate and Environment’ — finally, the word ‘protection’ appears in the title. Because there is no doubt that protection is also important in our time, not least when sea space is to be used. In recent times, I have met a number of representatives of the fishing industry and marine scientists who are seriously concerned that the last hotspots for oil and gas pipelines, TFO areas, have been added to areas that the Marine Research Institute now says are particularly valuable and vulnerable areas – in the middle of the most traditional and most important fishing fields west of the Moravian Banks, Activitieset and Egga Edge. Will the Council of State, as Minister for Climate and Environment, allow these fields to be allocated now in this 2021 round, with the knowledge that lies there? What kind of precautionary principle and knowledge will he require one to make the decisions?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11485	I believe that in Norwegian administration we have a high standard for good environmental assessments, and that this is something that is being practised and to be practised. I am not going here and now to go into the forthcoming individual decisions, but that this is important, there should be no doubt about it. Then I want to say – as a little general comment – that it is not always that protection, in the sense of ‘no use’, is the best way to take care of nature. Sometimes certain forms of sustainable use make such a difference. We're going to focus on managing nature in a sustainable way. Sometimes it means protecting special areas, but first and foremost it is that the administration itself is going to be sustainable. That is what I intend to contribute to, so that we take care of nature and help to maintain nature's ability to provide natural services to all of us. But we will also reap from it, exploit it and create jobs related to the long-term management of nature in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11492	I would also like to begin by congratulating the position of the Minister for Climate and Environment, who is responsible for the main and greatest task we are facing: a natural and climate crisis. I do not doubt the understanding of the seriousness of the situation in which we are, but when we read the platform, there are overall ambitions in the climate field, while many of the measures that Stortinget has already adopted are weakening: The requirement to sell only a zero-emission vehicle in 2025 has become a ‘fossil-free vehicle’. The previous mention of vans and heavy goods transport has been lost. For the target of 50 pst. reduction in transport is now only expected to reduce emissions within transport. And I can go on: within the nature field, it is such that forest protection is weakened, the stock targets for predators are weakened. Then my question becomes: do we now risk that even if the Council of State sees the big picture, you come to the Stortinget with matters that weaken policies already adopted?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11511	As I said in a previous answer, in terms of stock targets, they are to be investigated, and we come back to what that means. But with regard to the management of the stock targets that we already have, I say that it should be a clear and firm management, in line with exactly the agreement reached by the Stortinget, which limits the number of predators in Norway. I'm just repeating it here as well. In this context, I would also like to say that the answer is not always the word ‘protection’. It's actually important that we also look at how we manage. Sustainable governance is possible, and it's going to be a guiding principle in what we do. We're going to strengthen nature's ability to provide natural services to us, but we're going to do that in maybe other ways than what's been done in the past, and we're going to see what the whole thing is going to be. I believe that we not only have clear ambitions, but we have also said that we should have both a natural budget and an estimate of natural risk, which we also suggested when we were in opposition, and which include. The left voted against. That I think will help us to appreciate nature, price in terms of cost.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11520	At the same time, we need an international agreement on nature. The previous government placed Norway in the high ambition coalition, which talks about 30 pst. protection by 2030. There must be real protection in this. However, when we look at the situation in Norway: both in 2013, in the agreement that was concluded at the time, and in the two previous government platforms of the previous government, it is quite clear that the nature diversity law should remain in place. It's not mentioned in the platform right now. Then my question will be: will the Council of State insist that the Law on Nature Diversity is established and that we should follow the Berne Convention, or are we now at risk that proposals will be made that weaken the Law on Nature Diversity?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11530	I just have to repeat myself: the Natural Diversity Act is there and should of course be respected. We have international agreements, like the Berne Convention, and then we also have a robberies deal. We had a separate process on this in the last period to ensure that the objectives of the Nature Diversity Act are coordinated and reconciled with the objectives of the agreement. They think I'm going to be firm, but it's going to be clearly and clearly practised when we come to administrative issues that have to challenge this. There, I think, there's a big room to bring down the level of conflict and get the sense of what we call the two-part goal, both in those who are primarily concerned with predators, and in those who are concerned with grazing in pasture-priority areas. I think that's possible. I know it's demanding – I think the former State Council has tried Elvesuen on its own – but I think it should work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11535	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11542	Let me start by congratulating all of us that we finally got a government that will put the whole country into operation, a government that has faith in the northernmost part of the country, and that, with its north-eastern policy, will focus on education and research, resource management, industry and transport. We have no time to lose for Finnmark and North Norway. Negative population trends must be reversed. One of the biggest foreign policy challenges is people moving from the north. This is a great paradox. In the north, we have the resources that the world needs and wants, such as seafood, energy, minerals and experiences. In the Declaration of Government we find several points that recognise the importance of the region for the nation of Norway, but if we are to take advantage of the enormous opportunities in the region, people have to live here. To succeed in making the northern regions the center of green conversion, we need to have more thoughts in our heads at the same time. The Government statement is clear that we are going to develop the petroleum industry and not wind it up. The petroleum industry is currently contributing to high incomes, value creation and jobs throughout the country. The competence and revenue of oil and gas will be crucial when we are to convert and move to a transition to the renewable society. Finally, we have received a government that makes demands on the nutritionists who harvest our natural resources, a government that will demand that oil companies return more of the value creation locally, and demand ringing effects on land, not least in the north. In order to ensure Finnmark the same prerequisite for the development of societies as in the rest of the country, investments in value-creating infrastructure and access to skilled labour will be crucial. 420 kV lines from Skaidi to Varangerbotn and from Skaidi to Hammerfest are a necessity. Our highways and highways are to be maintained, and the routes E45 Gorge from Kautokeino to Alta and Rv. 94, which is the entryway of Hammerfest, is overripe for refurbishment. The extraordinary measures we have taken far north to make people move to Finnmark and Nord-Troms need to be evaluated and improved. The Government Declaration promises more decentralised education services near where people live. The northernmost part of the country is important to us who live in the north, but it is also crucial for the security of the nation and for our income to the state budget. Never before have we had a government statement that so clearly facilitates the establishment of North Norway as the centre of national policy [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11559	And time must last!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11564	I notice that several representatives from both the Workers' Party and the Centre are talking about active industrial policy as if it were something new. It's not. In the last eight years, a very active industrial policy has been pursued, and there has been a dramatic increase in the focus on industrial research, development and innovation. It has been crucial to support the transformation of large parts of our business community and to develop new technologies that can both contribute to lower emissions and facilitate increased competitiveness for Norwegian business. Active enterprise policy is about supporting the industry in which we have specific prerequisites for success, such as: in the maritime sector, where our businesses are completely at the top of the world. Green Maritime Programme and requirements for low- and zero-emission solutions for ferries and high-speed craft are examples of how public-private cooperation can contribute to forward-looking solutions that have a high export potential and contribute to profitable jobs. Active enterprise policy was also when the government of Solberg put in place a hydrogen strategy and a clear commitment to technology development and infrastructure. Offshore sea wind deployment and support for key carbon capture and storage projects are also areas where it is possible to create new industry and export revenues for Norway and which contribute to reduced emissions. Active enterprise policy is about ensuring that our businesses meet as few obstacles as possible to carrying out their activities. Digitisation and simplification of many functions will contribute to lower costs and increased competitiveness. The digital coverage in Norway has never been better, and the 5G network is now being rolled out too. Digital coverage across the country is one of our major competitive advantages and crucial for the introduction of new technologies in many areas. Active enterprise policy is when, over the past eight years, we have doubled the transport budget and built infrastructure throughout the country. Active industrial policy is also about stability and predictability in the export market. There is no point in doubting the EEA Agreement, such as: The center part and SV do. Active enterprise policy requires a good tax policy. When the corporation tax is reduced to 22 pst. and the tax on working capital has been significantly reduced in recent years, which means that investing in Norwegian jobs and Norwegian enterprises has become more attractive. It seems that the Workers' Party and the Centre believe that active industrial policy is equal to increased state ownership. At the same time, the same parties will increase the taxation of Norwegian ownership in Norwegian companies. It's the wrong medicine. Active industrial policy is primarily about facilitating attractive investment in Norwegian enterprises and jobs and that these enterprises can develop in a good way. Then we create profitable jobs and facilitate innovation and development.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11583	First, I would like to congratulate the country on a new big deal. When we started this election campaign in Red, we said two things: we're going to give the country a new big deal and a new government and we're going to establish ourselves well above the barrier. We're both clear. This is good news for the country, and it is particularly good news for the coast. In the Hurdals platform, there is a chapter on fisheries and aquaculture. We in Red are very pleased that the new government is taking the initiative for a new quota notification. We who have joined the fisheries policy inside and outside this room remember what happened to the previous one. An allowance notification was attempted just before the National Audit Office was to publish its report on the relationship between Norwegian fisheries policy and practice with legislation and social objectives. A popular uprising – and the batch here was able to postpone the processing of this message, but nevertheless it was pressed through an allowance message that we could not accept. We're happy about that in Red. Then, together with people along the coast, we're going to be involved in and influence what this message is going to contain. So I'll say a little bit about the marine part of the Hurdal platform. So it's added to growth in an industry that hasn't been able to deal with the problems they're creating, even with today's volumes. In Red we have made a very good choice on the coast. It's an election result that's come because people feel they're getting less and less to say about their own future at the place they live. It is a one-sided effort in one industry, the aquaculture industry – which has displaced our coastal fishermen from its traditional places – that we know has major problems with pollution, disease, lice and that kind of thing. We cannot accept immediately that this industry should be able to grow with today's technology. So we in Red are going to lift these things into the Storting along with the great movement of people that is now rising along the whole coast, and that requires a different technology and policy towards this industry. We're going to make sure that there's going to be ordinary coastal people, not the usual crowd of farm billionaires' trip.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11592	New government gives new hope and faith in the future throughout the country. After six years of being a rapporteur in a God-Fire Valley municipality with a government that has deprived the districts, we have now received a government that will take Norway in a new and fairer direction. It is a government for ordinary people – a government that puts work, better well-being and a fairer climate policy at the top, and that will have a policy for more justice and less differences between people and between cities and towns. The concept of ‘town and country hand-in-hand’ is well known in this room. Less well-known is that this stuff of thought was hatched on a cabin in the middle of the Gudbrand valley. Towns, townspeople and cottage owners Einar Gerhardsen spent a lot of time on policy development on the cabin. Gerhardsen understood his time and his people, just like our new prime minister, Jonas Gahr Støre. As a representative of the districts, I am particularly pleased that we have received a government statement that says so clearly that district policy needs to be strengthened and renewed. The Hurdal Platform has a number of powerful and concrete actions that people and businesses across the country will notice. Good work, better well-being and good life throughout the country is the most important thing. Therefore, the platform has clear bets on kindergarten, school, health, housing, road and not least that broadband should be a similar rights to electricity. Then we have to have a state and municipalities that will contribute to a more active industrial policy and new jobs where resources are and where business is in the driver's seat. The resources are there, business is clear, and we've got a government going on. Norway has been given a new government with great ambitions for the whole country, with a historic commitment in the districts, in the cities, in important industries and not least in the municipalities – where people live. The Hurdal platform is solid and offensive. It is a clear policy and a clear direction in response to today’s challenges – for people throughout Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11611	Right will have a society with little differences, trust and opportunities for everyone. When we then know that the greatest social difference is between those who have a job and those who are outside, our most important task must be to get more people to work. First, the new jobs must be created. We have to make it easier to start, operate and work in start-up companies. That's why I'm a little surprised when the Arbeiderparti platform is quite so ribbed for entrepreneurial policy. In the State budget, the right has proposed changes to the option tax in order to make it easier for start-ups to attract skilled employees and to strengthen competitiveness. The government's response in the platform is that they want to "look at" it. “Look at” – we don’t have time for that. That's not the star game we need right now. We need action. This will be my first challenge to the new Minister of Industry, and the Right is ready to be involved and take responsibility for implementing a more competitive entrepreneurial policy in Norway in the years to come. In addition to creating more, we need to include more in the jobs we have. On the Right Guard, we took Norway safely through the greatest economic crisis since the war. We got speed on Norway, so that more and more people now come to work. But there are still too many outside, and behind each unemployed is the competence of the Norwegian society. Everybody can, so let's give people the chance to flower! We need to ensure a safe, decent and flexible working life where everyone who wants to work gets a job. Then there are several things we have to do. First of all, we have to continue the bet on the inclusion duege, where at least 5 pst. of all new employees in the state are people with holes in the CV. We need to give priority to several long-term job placements, some 3,000 more of which were on the Right Guard, so that those who are not ready for ordinary work can still get a good job to do. Then we have to make sure that no one goes out to date, and we have to have more decentralised education provision, so that it becomes easier to combine work and education. On the Right Guard, it was created more and included several more. We look forward to constructive cooperation in Stortinget to take care of what Norway we are all so happy about – with little differences, trust and opportunities for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11626	In the last eight years, major structural changes have occurred in a number of areas of society. The centralisation forces have been provided, with the mantra larger, stronger and more robust. How are we going to change this now, if we want development across Norway, after the government change? Well, we're going to bet on what we're strong on, and trigger more of the nutritional potential that lies in our natural base, whether it's agriculture, forestry, fisheries, aquaculture, minerals, energy, food or travel. Natural resources are located outside the country and cannot be centralised. Therefore, we will use the regional policy instruments as a tool for important initiatives. The toolbox has to be sufficient, otherwise we won't have to do the job. The recent government has for several years focused its efforts on industrial development on national schemes and made major cuts in the regional development funds of the county municipalities. It is very unfortunate for the organisation of the work on innovation, value creation and existing business and for the establishment of new business activities in the districts. Since 2013, regional development funds have been available for, for example: The government budget has been reduced by approx. 40 pst. In addition, the funds have been given national commitments which give the county little or no freedom to make regional adjustments. Our government will strengthen the county councils as a community developer. Regional development funds also contribute to the realisation of important national initiatives. Enhancing competitiveness and employment and improving the framework conditions for business are among the objectives. Because the funds are allocated to the counties, who are well aware of the challenges in the different regions, resources can also be adapted to specific assumptions and challenges. Priority shall be given to innovation, start-ups and measures geared to business and business. For county municipalities, Innovation Norway is an important tool, and the operational funds are delegated there. We also see that Innovation Norway is weakening in the government's proposal for a State budget. Development of regional growth agreements becomes an important interaction tool and becomes a systematisation of the close contact between national authorities and the states under the pandemic. District policy must be strengthened and renewed. Work and well-being are the most important. People will live and live their lives in all parts of the country. Important welfare services must then be in the vicinity. Broadband and good communication and transport solutions are essential. ‘It is far from this country. Most of it is north.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11641	Our country has for decades been characterized by strong communities, small differences and high trust – a Norway as we know it, and so we know the world around us. This has changed in the last eight years. For the last eight years, our country has become a country of increasing diversity. Differences between people in cities and countries and between parts of the country have increased. Many have known about outreach and insecurity for work and that our good welfare state has changed. For the government, a strong state of public well-being is the pillar, a welfare state built up to create a bedrock of ability and, if necessary, obtain. This is at the heart of government policy. Having a health care service that is available no matter who you are, where you live, or what your wallet contains is important. A healthcare service with well-qualified added settings in its entirety, which sees the patient, is crucial. This way we get a world-class healthcare. The government will strengthen the economy of both municipalities and hospitals. Annual cuts have weakened our common health care system. It is now time to include an input data with this. We need a strengthened community economy and a strengthened economy for hospitals and health professionals, for example. to increase basic staffing in order to provide the elderly and the sick with safe care and better care. Government policy will give us back security. A good public health service for everyone, no matter what thoughts you have and what your wallet contains, will give us a new course and security in everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11653	First of all, congratulations to all of us with a new government and a new majority. In recent years, from North Cape in the north to Lindesnes in the south, there has been a regional uprising, a district uprising against hospital closures and functions, against the centralisation of jobs, and not least against the coercion of both municipalities and counties, also known as the municipal and regional reform. Now is the turn of ordinary people, we've heard throughout the campaign, and many of the country's common people live in the districts. It was therefore very gratifying to hear Prime Minister Jonas Gahr Støre now on Monday at the presentation of the government statement saying: ‘The time limit for overrun of community is over.’ This obliges and must be followed up, not only in words, but also in action. The Hurdal Platform states that coercive municipalities and county councils should be dissolved, which send applications by decision of the local government or county council by 1 July 2022. The problem is that there is not necessarily a political majority in the merged counties or local authorities to submit such an application, even though the resistance of the people is great. For example, in an opinion poll conducted by InFact in Sogn and Fjordane in April, a total of 63.5 pp. of them asked that they want to dissolve the new big county. Only 22,5 pst. would retain Westland if it were a referendum. Another example of a municipality that was also the victim of the Hurdal platform formulation is the old Søgne municipality. The requested municipalities were shown as an example when Minister of Finance Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum promised in the last party leader debate that coercive municipalities could break free as soon as the Senterpartie came to power. Red thinks it's time to listen to people who have not been listened to for too long. That is why we propose that there be an advisory referendum in the West, the Inland and Westfold and Telemark on whether or not to go back to the structure that existed before. In addition, we propose that referendums be held within the framework of the old municipal boundaries of the former Søgne, Haram, Verran, Flora and Vågsøy on whether to go back to the old municipal structure or not. As Prime Minister Gahr Støre also said on Monday: ‘The government shall transfer power to ordinary people.’ This obligates. So to everyone who agrees with us, we invite the parties to support our proposals to ensure that people in District Norway are finally listened to. Let me also take hold of one of the very last things. Prime Minister Gahr Støre said correctly: ‘The fight against Difference Norway is a struggle to preserve our model of society.’ Therefore, Red expects the new government to focus fully on bringing down the number of children growing up in poverty, now a total of 115,000. Doing something about poverty requires many structural measures. One of them is to legislate that child welfare should benefit all children and not be curtailed for families in social welfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11681	Norway and the world are going in a new direction. Norway should cut 55 pst. by 2030. The climate crisis is the greatest challenge of our time, and together with the loss of nature, we face major global crises. Therefore, it is decisive that measures to resolve one crisis do not go at the expense of the other. Climate mitigation measures must be taken through actions that we know will affect our everyday lives. People experience and feel responsibility, a collective responsibility that the individual cannot take alone. I have spoken to people who say that they feel this is burdensome, and that they want to take responsibility by choosing goods and services that are reusable and climate-friendly. It is now demanding to be informed in this market, it is perceived as difficult when much of the industry in the world and in Norway continues to produce environmentally harmful products. Many people are aware of a solution to power when it comes to what individuals can contribute to the great climate struggle. Ordinary people, and especially our young people, say that they have not experienced security in policies designed to slow down global warming. The newsprint shows a world of change, with race, flooding, drought and extreme weather, and this is a daunting picture. We, as politicians, need to take action and take the challenges seriously. This government will implement the largest climate action in Norway's history to cut emissions. Climate and nature must be a framework of all policies. Norway's ambitious climate targets require the entire government and all parts of society, and the goal will be achieved. Policies shall contribute to the emergence of resilient industries based on the competence of world-leading industry professionals. Climate policy should not be moralising, and it must be fair. Making climate-friendly choices should be easy for the individual. The government should cut climate emissions, secure a society of small differences and mobilise to a broad and popular support for climate policy through a steady and safe course in the major climate challenges. It is the big community that has to take responsibility for making climate-friendly choices in Norway and in the world, through economics, social systems and work. This is our responsibility as elected representatives to carry out, and that responsibility is to be taken by this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11692	After eight wonderful years of bourgeois government, we have a better starting point for conversion than ever. The future looks bright for Norway. We stand up in the morning to an economy that has become greener and less oil dependent, competitiveness is strengthened, and we have become more digitised. We're going to work in a Norway that's become greener and stronger. Unemployment has fallen again strongly — much faster than in, for example, comparisons. the financial crisis – and unemployment will continue to fall in 2022. In April last year, there were 430 000 job seekers. Now the number is at the base of 130,000, and we're soon back on the level before the pandemic. We're waking up in one of the countries that's dealt with the coronary crisis at its best. In addition to low unemployment and safe control through a pandemic, the Right in Government has led a policy to create more and include more. We've spent the big money investing in well-being, in the welfare of ordinary people. Nine out of ten dollars of the increased space for action in the State budget has been used to strengthen health and care, education, local economy and transport. The money is spent on ordinary people. After eight years of right-wing government, we wake up to a cleaner Norway, a country that has cut emissions five years in a row, and has the lowest level of emissions in almost 30 years. Over the past eight years, we have pursued a policy that has made it more expensive to pollute and easier for ordinary people to make green choices. The new government claims that it will cut greenhouse gas emissions, but does not, at least for the time being, follow up with measures. The Hurdal platform is undirectional and alarmingly weak in climate, almost as if someone inside is sitting and holding a little bit of the handcuff. The CO 2 tax, which is the most effective reduction tool, is eroded by a number of exceptions. With the Right in government, the grant to Enova was doubled, we put lead-heavy on carbon capture and storage, sea wind and hydrogen – just to mention something. The list is very much longer. With the Støre government platform, it is expected that the investment in Norway as a modern and nutritious climate nation, which was part of the blue-green government's climate plan, will be weakened rather than escalated. It means fewer bones to be on in the future for Norway, fewer jobs in sectors that cut emissions without cutting development. I hope the Støre government has greater ambitions both for Norwegian business and for the future than it shows in this platform. I must admit that I am optimistic, so I am cheering on the green voices of the Workers' Party. The last thing to do was to present a green, nutritious state budget that facilitates good and safe lives for everyone, both in the cities, on the countryside and along the coast. We did so, among other things. by laying the foundation for more jobs in the private sector, because what we need in the next few years is to create more, not more taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11712	I want to use my first post on Stortinget to tell a story about someone I like, and I care a lot about. I want to tell you about Olav and Elena working at the Thon Hotel in Jölster in Sogn and Fjordane Valkrins, where I come from. Elena was born in Russia and grew up in Bulgaria. When she moved to Norway, she didn't know what organized work was all about. When she worked so hard that she not only kept going to the ground, but actually went to the ground and had to go to the doctor, she would not say so, for that was not the way it came from. But even though she had no knowledge of the organized working life when she came to the country, she learned it, because in 2012 she organized herself in the Joint Union. It wasn't anyone who was elected to the hotel there – it was actually her husband, Olav. And it wasn't just her that organized, because the jam went and organized the whole crowd, from zero to beyond all. When you look at them and see how proud they are of their workplace, how much they are doing and how happy they are to see what they are doing, you know it. Not only do it with those who add it, but it also does something about the operations and possibilities of those who run it, and those who run the company. That understanding also makes me happy that we now have a Minister of Industry who has expressed, who owns himself, that it is good for all parties that we have a strong and organized working life. It is equally important that we have a Minister of Labour and Inclusion who, from the start, says something about our level of ambition – about the trade union deduction, which we are going to double, and that we should reintroduce the collective court of justice, which is to strengthen the momentum of our movement and take the fight against illegal living and working life crime. Not least I am with and support for a government that is working with workers. I record them constantly trying to throw down on ordinary people, but they're the ones I'm working with, and I'm incredibly proud of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11721	Our welfare state is in the world class. We've all really noticed that under the corona pandemic when the big community stands up for us all. But this doesn't come of itself. Our welfare state consists of all the competent people who are at work every day for the community. Now it's the community's turn to set them up. As a nurse, I have seen this work from the inside. Health professionals, maintenance workers and assistants are among those who have stood in the front line and who have set up for our common security. The challenge is that too many workers do not have the opportunity to work in their entire fixed settings, which means that they do not have their lives planned. One doesn't know what salary comes in at the end of the month, and one doesn't have the ability to own their own housing. A new direction for workers is high, and it is, because the government statement is clear and clear about what kind of working life we are going to have in Norway. We're going to have a serious work life, where people have a safe job and a payroll to live on. Fixed and whole settings shall be the general rule of Norwegian working life, and the right to full-time shall be strengthened in the law. A full-time commitment is to be made, and municipalities will have a better economy so that they can add more. With a Labour Party-led government, there will be a new direction for the country, a new direction for workers, and not least a new direction for equality, because full-time is also a gender equality struggle. Part-time work is particularly common in women's dominated professions, which makes this an important issue for raising equality. If we are to become more like-minded as a society, there needs to be another work to create all the time, because we know that equality does not come of itself, equality happens through action. If we're going to go further with gender equality in Norway, we also have to make sure that everyone is able to work in whole and firm settings. With a Labour Party-led government and this platform, there will be a new direction for workers and for equality. It's going to be a new direction for the country, and I'm slipping.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11732	Right now, we're experiencing some kind of power crisis. I say “hit” for the power producers are the high prices dear to us. But for people with a tight economy, sky-high bills can be an economic disaster. The debt collection agencies say that the debt requirements will come on a continuous basis. Persistently high prices in the coming years have been notified by Norway’s Watercourse and Energy Directorate – NVE. By connecting us more and more closely to the European energy market, with several foreign tables and increased exports, prices will rise in South Norway. Exports continue, even if the NVE has informed about tight warehouses. Not since 2006 has the filling level been as low as it was last week. What is profitable for power companies is not automatically profitable for Norwegian households or in the long term for the industry in Norway. The increased market governance strengthens Difference Norway, a development for which a broad political majority is responsible. In the last 20 to 30 years, a market-liberal revolution has taken place, where heating of houses and water has gone from being regarded as a fundamental need to be seen as a commodity in the first place. The right government with blessing from among others The Workers' Party has reinforced market constraints through the construction of even more foreign tables. Now, when the new government says no to several foreign tables, it's good, but hardly enough. Red will have immediate measures to help those who are now struggling to pay the bills. But we have to have more than just a patch on the wound. We have to limit the export of power and the market alignment of energy policy in general, because the power belongs to the people regardless of postal code or what is in the account.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11741	The Coronapandemic has given us many new experiences. However, although the use of home offices has increased too many, it is – and will be – important to continue to facilitate good collective services across the country. There's always a train going, it's called. Unfortunately, it's not like that. A presumptuous crow set up the railway network throughout the south of Westfold and Grenland for several weeks. Large parts of the line south of Tønsberg are from the countenance period. It is therefore necessary that the ambitions for full intercity development are clear, as the new government platform also states. But of course it will take time, and that is why it also says that it must be ‘worked with significant improvements in the offer of internal and external InterCity’. I am pleased that we have now received a government that is considerably more ambitious on the railway's behalf than what we have seen in recent years. Several of the experiences in the pandemic have been painful and tiring. But we also bring with us some good experiences. I will mention three examples: Point 1: Young people will and young people can work in agriculture. Marthe Hillestad on the Søndre Grevle farm at Stavern is a medium-sized strawberry producer who got to pick their strawberries by means of hardworking, competent Norwegian youth. I want more young people to have this opportunity. At the same time, I am pleased that the government will work for decent terms and conditions of pay and work in agriculture. Point 2: The Nordics want to leave in Norway. Never before have so many Nordics holidayed in their own country, and many say that in the future they will use their own country more. As a representative of the only municipality in the country with its own municipality plan for camping, I look forward to a new national plan for a sustainable tourism industry that will also ensure local value creation throughout the year. Point 3: The Norwegian public health system works and saves lives. A huge effort by fantastic employees has resulted in Norway getting well out of the crisis we've been in. We must continue to strengthen the public health system and ensure that we do not receive a two-part healthcare service. At the same time, the last half of the year has reinforced some developments that are dangerous. The solitude that many live in has become more widespread. This applies in particular to young people under 35 years of age. And among the unemployed, according to the SSB, they report 28 pst. that they are plagued by solitude. It shows the importance of having the social network that people experience at work, and that standing on the outside of work has consequences beyond economics. The government will create a strategy to combat solitude. That's good, and it's necessary. At the same time, getting more people to work is crucial. It provides tax revenue to society and contributes to increasing productivity. But not least, it's very good public health.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11758	After eight years with a right-wing government that has put equality in reverse and increased the differences between people and between city and country, it is a great pleasure that we now have a government that sets a new course, a new course for working life, a new course for business and a new course for ordinary people. The election results in the north clearly showed that people would have a new direction, a new direction where everyone should be able to live a good life, have good welfare services, regardless of where you live, or the size of the moneybook, have safe and good jobs to go to, whether you live in the village or in the city. The new government has two clear and very ambitious goals for business: cut emissions by 55 pst. and increase Norwegian exports, excluding oil and gas, by at least 50 pst. by 2030. Nordland has a fantastic power-processing industry that will help to achieve both of these goals. In a few years, Norway’s first battery cell factory will be located in Nordland. In addition, there are a number of very exciting hydrogen and data centre projects on the stairs in several parts of the county. When we add the big space adventure on Andøya, we're facing a very exciting decade in the north. Sometimes politics can be poetic. The Hurdal platform says: ‘The new Northern Region policy aims to reverse negative population trends, exploit local values to generate growth, make the northern regions the centre of green conversion’. It's beautiful. Isn't that beautiful? What the government is doing is developing the northern regions through a new social contract, a contract between natural resources and communities. Those who harvest the Community's resources in the north must leave behind more locally, whether it be forest, fisheries, aquaculture, wind, minerals or oil and gas. Finally, I am very pleased that this government will strengthen the local economy. Too many municipalities experience cuts and a state that has left. In the government platform, there is a clear direction that allows municipalities and county councils to provide good services, operate development and not liquidation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11776	The labour market is in dire need of competence. The government's statement on Monday set out a new direction for society, for a fairer and greener society where Norway cuts its greenhouse gas emissions and creates more green jobs. Several jobs across the country mean an increased need for good skills. And president, did you know that Norway has some of the world's best trade union workers? We're going to keep going into the future. The challenge is to train enough. One possible measure is to ensure that all qualified professionals are provided with an apprenticeship after completion of Vg2. That is why I am very pleased that the government platform is so clear that this is something the government wants to prioritise in the future, in cooperation with the county councils and the working life. Because there is one queue in this country that is completely meaningless, there is no rush into Oslo on a Monday morning – no, it is all the professional lives that are waiting for, and not getting, a place to learn. In my former life, until Thursday, I was elected to the municipality of Trysil and to the county of Inland. In 2016, the City Council of Trysil, the first in the country, decided to introduce an apprenticeship guarantee. Today we see the result: in four years we have had 100 pst. Communication, we have several recognized apprenticeships, and several of the young people in Trysil are applying to the professions. In the interior, you work with a similar model, in Rogaland you have the Bergeland model, in Nordland you have the Steigen model – all the different solutions that take students seriously and ensure learning on the ground. The labour market is in dire need of competence, which the government platform takes seriously. My impression after talking to companies in the country in recent years is that they are ready. They are ready to take greater responsibility to ensure that Norway can maintain its competitive advantage over the rest of the world, namely the skilled worker. It's Synnove Finden in Alvdal with his three apprentices, it's Tepas in Trysil with his six apprentices, and it's Nammo on Raufoss with his 27 apprentices. Many companies will contribute and ensure that young people can complete secondary education, but unfortunately many still end up in the senseless queue. Many people have expectations and optimism about the government platform, so I want the new government to be happy with the important work – for the labour market has a burning and screaming need for competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11789	Mr. Bjørn Moxnes has previously said from this pulpit that the only surplus you should talk about in kindergarten is the profits that employees have to spend with their children. The situation in the country's kindergartens today is that there is often no surplus but a deficit of employees. Sick leave in my home municipality of Trondheim is increasing, and it is especially in the field of growth and education it is increasing. But this situation is not unique to the municipality of Trondheim. Some may claim that it is strange that sick leave rises when the pandemic is slowly diminishing in Norway. Others might say that we weren't sick enough last year, that it's kind of a double edged sword to keep distance and wash hands, and that therefore we're getting more sick now than before. But for school and kindergarten employees, it was never about keeping a meter away. We were still exposed to both infection and close contact. According to the Trondheim municipality report, corona-related sick leave is also not a sufficient explanation of the negative development. It says that only 1 pst. of sick leave in schools and 1.6 pst. of sick leave in kindergartens was corona-related. The reason for the increase in sick leave must be different. Trustees in adulthood are clear that the reason for the increase in sick leave is the pressure on staff. The manning before the pandemic was already too low, and it was common in the growing-up sector to take two Paracets and go to work when you were ill. I want to say that kindergarten workers and teachers may have a high morale, but during the pandemic, it was no longer a possible strategy. If you have symptoms, you should be tested and at home until you are healthy, or at least until you have received a negative test answer. The total burden was high on the employees. Both the kindergarten and school sectors have shown that there is too little staffing and that it has been so long before the coronary apathy. Employees describe a daily life when you are under pressure and often too few people. Such a working day leads to the knowledge that time and resources do not extend, and that there was always something you should have done. Over time, this becomes a strain, which in turn can lead to stress and poor health. Continuing to have low staffing in the growing-up sector is a poor investment in the future. Children and young people deserve a working day with enough staff to be seen and heard. Employees in the growing-up sector have for a long time announced that today’s situation is not good, that it leads to emotional stress and a sense of not stretching to, and they should be heard.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11802	The quality of research and higher education is crucial for the success of Norway in addressing societal challenges both nationally and globally. The self-esteem of knowledge, the integrity of research and academic freedom are fundamental. I am pleased that the Huddal Declaration, as they would say themselves, emphasises the importance of an ambitious and offensive knowledge policy throughout the country. This is not about weakening existing structures with established colleges and universities, but about facilitating such institutions to provide decentralised services in cooperation with county, business and other actors. Some regional training centres in this form are already established, but we need to build a firmer framework and increase predictability of such services. ‘It is now the time to get tired of the sea’, which someone has sung once. Decentralised education is primarily about meeting the needs of municipalities and local businesses. In the districts, there is a shortage of both nurses and teachers and other skilled workers. At the same time, there are considerable differences in the level of education between different parts of the country and within each country. A decentralised offer will help to correct regional imbalances and create a culture of education in areas where statistics are poor. The Hurdal platform also offers a different perspective on research – a desire to establish an international top-class research environment related to clusters. In this, there are great opportunities to meet the needs of business at a time marked by transformation on many fronts. At the same time, it is important to clarify that research and education must always be seen in the context. Of course, decentralised education must be research-based, in line with the education of the established institutions, and it is precisely in cooperation with the university and higher education sectors that such provision needs to be developed. Through the knowledge policy, we have to educate the peoples that our whole country needs. At the same time, we should continue to stimulate excellent research at international level and not forget that knowledge is more than a short-term utility. I look forward to cooperation in the Stortinget where we will build up knowledge policy, because there is the future – local, national and international.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11820	We have now been told what the policy for Norway will look like in the next four years. After an election campaign in which the Center Party went high on the track to strengthen the districts, we were of course very excited about how this would turn out in the platform that was to be put forward. Apart from some broken promises to some communities, there are surprisingly few powerful actions the Hurdal Platform has to point to. The reversal of various measures is on the table, but we do not fully understand how this should provide better services to the individual citizen. Furthermore, regional policy impact assessments should be carried out for all reforms. Is that right? Of course, we have a expectation that all reforms that are being undertaken will be done to improve the lives of all in Norway, as has been the case with the reforms undertaken by the Solberg Government. We now understand that it is not necessarily the purpose of the reform work of the new government. We also find positive measures for the districts of the new platform, such as lower ferry fares and cheaper air routes. The question arises as to whether these measures will be achieved when one has to give priority to all the priorities of both the economic balance and the ambitious climate objectives. We have argued that the pre-trafficking measures come as additions and not re-priorities, because good infrastructure is a means of good rural policy, and that means that the ambitions of the national transport plan must be fulfilled. Nevertheless, the question is whether this is the answer to getting speed in the districts. The Solberg government leaves to new government a business that goes very well. What the business people in the districts now need are wise heads and competent hands. We were on track to meet flexible and decentralised training, tax deductions for young people, the strengthening of differentiated pay for employers, good tax arrangements for entrepreneurs and the introduction of catapults and cluster programmes that are important inputs to the green shift. We note that the new government has an intention to continue much of the good policy we have put in place. We need to ensure that no important framework conditions are put into play now. The continuation of policy on green shipping, offshore wind power, aquaculture, hydrogen bets and battery plants is important. We will therefore follow closely what lies in the green tax reform. We are totally dependent on young people finding the districts attractive. It comes with good jobs, flexible education systems and freedom of choice in everyday life. We don't see this as a clear quadruple in the Hurdal platform, but we hope it's there between the lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11837	The petroleum industry on the Norwegian continental shelf is Norway's largest industry measured in value creation, measured in the income of the country, measured in investments and not least measured in export value. Prime Minister Støre repeated in his statement of accession Monday here from this chair that the new government should not wind up the oil and gas industry but rather develop it. He didn't mean in a single word how to develop. But in the Hurdal platform we find some formulations. They can cause Grobotn to worry. The Solberg government has in Meld. St. 36 for 2020-2021 presented a holistic policy for a future-oriented oil and gas industry. The main objective of the petroleum policy is to facilitate the profitable production of oil and gas from a long-term perspective. To achieve this, Right believes that the new government among other things. must maintain a stable and viable framework, allocate attractive search areas and actively contribute to research and development. Oil and gas industries contribute to economic activity throughout the country and stimulate economic, technological and social development. The industry is in continuous development, and for the next decade, we also have to expect that it will be very different from the decades we've spent behind us. The cash flow is naturally influenced by the energy prices on the world market. In the last few months, we have seen a large increase in the price growth of energy, whether it be electricity, oil or gas. Only the gas prices alone have increased to a level that increases the petroleum revenues per Norwegian by approx. $100,000 a year. And through the Kollsnes plant in my home municipality, the export value is now about 1 billion. kr per day. It says a little bit about what this industry has to say to the Norwegian community. Norway covers 25 pst. of the EU’s gas needs and strongly contribute to a shift towards low-carbon and gas emissions communities. The new gas pipeline from Russia to Germany will also come in time. Greater demand for more gas is expected. On a world-wide basis, the biggest challenge is the growth in the consumption of coal, not oil and absolutely natural gas. Right-hand means that the management of petroleum resources should take place within a defensive framework when it comes to health, environment and safety, and that the Norwegian petroleum industry should continue to be a leader in these areas, then it must facilitate good co-existence at sea, where both oil and gas industries and other marine industries are developed. An active leadership policy is important, and I become somewhat uncertain when I read all the limitations found in the Hurdal platform. Regular concession rounds on Norwegian pedestals are important and correct, which will provide the industry with access to new, good and attractive search areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11855	Norway, together with the rest of the world, has been in a pandemic for the last two and a half years. It's put us all to the test. For most people, it's all right. You've come through the difficult times and you're looking forward to it. But many of those who were vulnerable before the pandemic have also become more vulnerable during and after the pandemic. We can see that, for example. in Bergen, where we saw in the first stages of reopening that especially families, children and young people sought help in the low-threshold provision of the municipality. With coronants from the state, the municipality established among others: offer as Lavterskel evening. There you could come without an appointment and get help from professionals. I am glad that the new government sees that even if the pandemic is over, there is a crisis for many as regards mental health. The Government Declaration states that special efforts are needed for the mental health of children and young people and that funds are to be allocated to low-threshold mental health care in municipalities. I am pleased that the government has listened to children, young people, professionals and local authorities demanding that mental health be given priority. The government will also eliminate the excess for them up to and including 25 years for treatment in public mental health protection. This means that early in adult life young people can be helped to deal with challenges before they develop into insurmountable problems. I look forward to being allowed to work for a strong public health service, which is managed by the community and funded by the tax slip. That's how we fight social inequality and inequality and give everyone the opportunity to live a good, health-promoting life.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11868	Everyone here in the hall has a long campaign behind him. The undersigned was allowed to visit all municipalities in Troms and had many good meetings with organisations, businesses and residents. In meeting people, some issues were raised more often than others. In Troms, most of us live along or at the end of a country road. We have 300 miles of highway and about 118 miles of highway. Good, whole country roads are a prerequisite for further development of societies and industries such as industry. aquaculture, agriculture and tourism. Good highways are also an important prerequisite for the citizens to experience their sense of well-being and security. It's not just about paved road, it's about tunnels, race protection, breakage, meeting places on narrow roads and not least ferries. It's about the preparedness and security of those who travel on the road, and those who live and work there. The maintenance seat suspension on the county road network is between 6 and 9 billion. kr only in Troms. It's an impossible task for the county to take on its own. It is therefore very gratifying that the Hurdal platform is clear that the government will take this into account in cooperation with the county municipalities. In meetings with business operators and industry, development plans were presented for tens of millions – actors who had a strong desire to create new jobs, new growth and new jobs in District Norway. But – and here it is a big but – they cannot start with planning and construction because there is not enough capacity in the mains power supply. Both in Lyngen and at Senja, we received this feedback, but our platform is now ready for the state to take responsibility and to strengthen the power grid capacity across the country. The same economic actors also struggle with labour, labour which in many cases exists, but which is not available because housing shortages are the challenge. Building a new housing in District Norway for 4 million. kr, the value of the dwelling will be halved by placing the key in the lock, and then it will be a challenge to get the housing financed, and there will be no settlement there. Here the new government takes responsibility and will strengthen the Husbank, district-oriented work, including stimulating different types of housing in municipalities with an uncertain housing market. Then there's one thing that most people are still waiting for in the north, and that's the opportunity to take the train. Now the work starts with KVU. The Government shall implement a KVU with the aim of realising the development of the North Norway Railway. The KVU shall be completed and processed in the context of the next rolling of the national transport plan. The election result was clear: ordinary people wanted a shift. We have received a new Workers' Party-Center Party government that has presented a statement that addresses the feedback that we met many of them in the election campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11883	Twenty-year-old Hamse Hashi Adan was shot outside of the praise-red school at Mortensrud in Oslo less than two weeks ago. He died of the damage the next day. It's sad, it's tragic, but we also have to learn from this. Policies must be tough on crime, but really tough on the causes of crime. Children and young people shall experience meaningful and safe lives. Then it's our job to make sure that the municipalities and districts have the tools and not least the money they need. I could stand here and talk about Oslo all day. I could talk about the City Council's summer job project, which has produced results here in the city. But even though the police can report record-breaking summers since the summer job project was introduced, and because activity offers have a significant role, we must not forget the whole chain of penalties: police, court and criminal justice. We're all worthy of the Justice Service's high trust in society. It's about presence, whether it's police or legal aid, permanent units that the Workers' Party is burning for. It's just this: building trust between authorities and the population over time. If – apologies, when – minority youth in Oslo East does not trust the police, it must mean something to the policy we are pursuing. That is why I am pleased that the Hurdal platform considers the culture and leadership of the police to be crucial in this field. The incident at Mortensrud makes a strong impression. Where, on the one hand, you have a young man who has been killed, on the other hand, you have an entire local environment that stands together in grief and that wants to use this tragedy for something valuable. Because that's actually possible. The Hurdal platform has a clear direction. We need to prevent and investigate better. Everyone's going to get the chance to be good fellow citizens. We're going to help those who've become part of negative environments, through different exit programs for recriminals, because it's a good investment for the people involved, and their relatives, the neighbourhoods and the community. We will pursue a policy that gives children and young people the opportunity to live a good life and realize both small and big dreams, which prevent anyone from falling outside, building bridges and trust, giving people a new chance when you're trotting wrong. Twenty-year-old Hamse Hashi Adan is no longer here. We can't set the clock back, but we can learn from this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11896	When Bent Höie became Minister of Health eight years ago, Arild Knutsen cried out that Bent had to remember that he was also his Minister of Health. Arild is the head of the association for a more humane drug policy. In 2013, most national politicians believed that we should continue to punish addicts. Over the course of eight years, we have cut most of the waiting time for just addicts who need help, and the waiting time was almost halved. Through free treatment choices, several of those who had almost given up have taken their lives back. We have given freedom of choice and confidence to people instead of putting the system first. Earlier this year, the Russian reform came. We suggested giving help, not punishment, and recognising addiction as it is, a addiction. Bent also became a health minister for addicts. In 2020, he just told Arild Knutsen about decriminalizing that "this is what we've been discussing for 20 years, and we've been in disagreement. You were right, I was wrong.» Still, we have to wait another four years. When the Workers' Party went against the Right Russ Reform, they said they wanted heavy addicts to be punished. We already have such exceptions in the law, they said – for children under 15 years of age and for those who are unencumbered by criminal law. One of the objectives of the drug reform is also to remove the stigma and gain understanding. It does something about our attitudes to people when what they do is criminal and illegal, instead of something they need health care to deal with. I think I would have felt quite so small if I realized that members of the new government were equal to a child or an unpredictable person because I had a addiction. The rhetoric and the way to talk about people leads to more stigma, less understanding, and it makes people feel small, insignificant and unauthorized. Russ addiction can affect most of us, but some of us are more vulnerable than others. It's in many ways twice as unfair, because it's often those who haven't had it so easily before, who end up with addiction. In addition, punishment has a very distinct social impact. Young people on the east side of Oslo are punished three times as much as young people on the west side, even though the youth on the west side smokes twice as much hashish. If your parents have low or no education, you are seven times as likely to be punished for drug offences as if your parents have high education. We are many who had hoped that a party talking about social differences would have given it a meaning for their drug policy. The right will use the next four years well, because the fight for a more humane drug policy is not over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11915	We're going to make sure people experience security in their everyday lives. They'll know that help comes when they need it, and we'll be prepared for the unmistakable. Hence, a central task of a government is ready. The Norwegian community, with its high trust, living communities and a strong public sector, has a good starting point for improving preparedness. The most important thing for a society is good prevention. We will, to the greatest extent possible, prevent crime and other undesirable events from happening. But when they do happen, it is important that society has the resources it needs, as quickly as possible. In a critical event, all experience shows that it is the first step that is important when it comes to saving lives and limiting the damage most effectively. It applies to the police when it comes to power. It applies to the fire service of a fire. This applies to the ambulances when some are affected by acute, critical disease — and not least to the whole rescue unit when some of them are drawn by race. What communities can do with resources in the initial phase of a critical event will largely determine outcomes and extent of damage. This is about proximity and being present. Good preparedness requires clear lines of responsibility and local anchoring. It is easy to underestimate the value of local knowledge, but it can be important and in many cases decisive for a successful first effort. Therefore, it is important that the government in its platform is clear that resources to deal with crises must be available throughout the country. In the police, there has been a great deal of effort on national resources with responsibility for preparedness and assistance to police districts. This contributes to a high level of competence in various required operations. However, the main response resource is and will be the local police in cooperation with municipalities, health, fire and rescue. The Government’s Platform outlines important measures to strengthen work on preparedness. Together with several other measures, a comprehensive preparedness Commission will be set up to assess how society’s overall resources should be set up as best possible to ensure satisfactory preparedness. And one will strengthen the coordination of the government's work on security and preparedness. As I said at the beginning of my post, we're a society with high trust. That trust is our common social capital. That capital must be managed wisely. The citizens have great faith in the authorities and therefore also great expectations – and that is what they have reason to do. They have reason to expect resources to come as quickly as possible when the crisis is a fact. They have reason to expect that the effort will be carried out as well as possible by competent personnel with good equipment and materials. So in a critical event, it's the first step that can often be decisive for how the outcome is. Therefore, it is good that the government will now introduce a mandatory response time for all the nudetaates.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11932	It's with an incredible pride I stand here today and get to talk about the Hurdal platform. This steady platform will provide a more equitable Norway with enhanced common well-being, more people working and cutting emissions. One common denominator to achieve this is to pursue an active, forward-looking industrial policy. Over the past eight years, we have seen an increasing deficit in trade with the rest of the world, corrected for petroleum exports. We aim to increase Norwegian exports excluding oil and gas by at least 50 pst. by 2030. We're going to make sure that businesses get a way into our toolkit. In order to achieve this, we need to set up a rapid, party-based sample to ensure that enterprises and people in Norway get the most out of the state instruments. I come from Halden in Eastfold myself. Norway's industrial revolution, as we often think of it, started here in 1813 when we got the first textile machines to a cotton factory. The energy was taken from the local natural resource, Tistedalsfossen. Since then, Eastfold has been an industrial group. Some industries have come and gone, but there are also many who have passed because they have shown an incredible ability to change. I am proud that the government is folding up the sleeves and putting up to get people and businesses safe through the big shifts that not only Eastfold, but the whole of Norway is now facing. Industrial environments in Eastfold and Norway have skills that are crucial in the transition to low- and zero-emission solutions, new technological solutions, digitisation and automation. The Hurdal platform supports the development and establishment of future-oriented industry in Norway. We will do this by ensuring better framework conditions and that Norwegian natural resources, such as reasonable renewable energy, remain a competitive advantage for Norwegian industry. After having had eight years with a right-wing government that has led a far too passive industrial policy, I am proud that we have now received a government that is both involved and demanding for business, so that our natural resources provide jobs here at home. It's more effective than tax cuts for those who have the most of them. Through the policy presented by the government in the Hurdal platform, we will create jobs for the future. We are to ensure value creation that will finance our strong welfare systems, and not least we are to facilitate business support to implement the emission cuts needed to achieve the climate objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11947	The election campaign and the change of government have given rise to a huge slogan festival, and in this connection I will make my small contribution, a slogan that has been allowed to dust down: sheep and parts in the last eight years. It had its heyday under the previous red-green government. This slogan sums up in many ways why I'm part of the Workers' Party. It won't be well-being if we haven't created something that can be shared, but it won't be good, stable societies with little differences and opportunities for everyone if we don't share in a fairly fair way. But slogans must be translated into politics if they are to matter. That's what the Hurdal platform does. We have received a government that announces a more active industrial policy, ensuring as far as possible the further processing of our natural resources in Norway, ensuring that Norwegian renewable energy remains a competitive advantage for Norwegian industry, and not least facilitating large-scale battery cell production in Norway. It is difficult for the Storting to adopt profitable jobs, but it is fully possible to facilitate the success of these new green jobs. In Mo in Rana and in Arendal there are notices of the establishment of huge battery plants, where each of them will be able to create several thousand jobs. Skellefteå in Sweden is a bit ahead of us. Skellefteå is hardly the hub of Sweden, but they are experiencing enormous growth at the moment. Seen from Oslo, Mo in Rana and Arendal will also be able to experience a little territory. In other words, there are opportunities for growth around the country. But we have to have the state on the team. In Arendal, enough capacity is needed on the mains power grid, port development and a new road. In return, we can have over 2,000 new jobs and a good contribution to the green shift. Therefore the joy was great when local candidates from the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left one week before the election stood on the battery floor in Arendal and promised, quote Agderposten: ‘The Battery receives money from the State budget.’ They just couldn't say how much. A month later, the government budget came, and what got that way? Zero – NOK 0 – but a sentence that you should look at it again in the spring. In the meantime, then, a company in Agder is immediately ready to put the spade in the ground to build a factory, but without road. Not even planning funds were delivered by the previous government. It can hardly be called an active enterprise policy. Those who haven't lived that long may wonder if a man can be prime minister. I have faith. So, Mr. Prime Minister, even if you should have gone home and gone to bed, on Agder we are now waiting on the way to the jobs of the future. It is needed, for profitable, sustainable jobs also provide the basis for us to have something to share. The welfare state still has major unsolved challenges, whether for people who are struggling with poor mental health and are not receiving help, or for those who feel that there is no money in the wallet for necessary dental treatment. Investing in Arendal and Agder today will therefore be a loving contribution to enable us to pay for our common well-being tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11963	We live longer and get older in Norway. Over the next 30 years, the number of people over 70 will double. It tells us first of all that we have good health in our country, but it also tells us that we need to build a good, high-quality care for the elderly, prepare health care for getting older, and create a more age-friendly society, where older people are recognised as valuable contributors in society. In the government, the Right has implemented and launched several important initiatives for the care of the elderly: We have presented the quality reform Life throughout our lives, which the municipalities are doing well, and which addresses the most basic things that are likely to fail when we talk about elderly care, such as nutrition, activity and community, quality of health care and the coherence of services. We have provided grants for the construction and modernisation of some 20 000 happy day care facilities in nursing homes and nursing homes. We have introduced several competence requirements in municipalities and implemented a proper level of competence, so that over 146 000 health care staff have received basic, continuing and recurrent training in the last four years. We have put in place safety standards in hospitals, in order to avoid too many differences in quality between municipalities, and we have put in place an authorisation system for free user choice, so that municipalities can give older people more power to decide about their own situation and their own everyday lives. These are just some of the bets that the Right has made in government. But there's one thing that worries me. The Hurdal Platform of the Workers' Party and the Centre do not follow up these efforts for older people and is little concrete on which initiatives the government itself will start to build up care for the elderly, strengthen health care and create a more age-friendly society. I don't understand how it's possible to be so little concrete in such an important area for so many people. The most concrete thing in the platform is that different bets are to be reversed and not followed up. The right will provide older people with a safe, active and dignified old age that is tailored to the individual’s needs. As a municipal politician in Tromsø for several years, I have met many older people. One of them is Einar Johansen in 90 years. In 2019, he lost his right to decide for himself who would come home, when the Workers' Party and the Center Party in Tromsø removed free user choice in the home service. Now the Workers' Party and the Central Party of the Government are to remove the same right for all the older people of the country. It's a cold policy. Right will give older people more power, not less, and Right agrees with Einar Johansen from Tromsø when he says that older people are old enough to decide for themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11987	Without ferries, there had been a lot of rowing and possibly a little swimming along the coast. Fergene is the lifeblood of people and business from Agder in the south to Finnmark in the north. Unfortunately, it has become very expensive to use this lifeblood for less than eight years with the Right and the Advance Party. In 2014, the prices of national roads increased by 3.5 pst., in 2015 by 4.1 pst., in 2016 by 2.9 pst., in 2017 by 7.8 pst., in 2018 by 2.4 pst., in 2019 by 2.7 pst., in 2020 by 3.2 pst. Yeah, there'll be money from that. On August 19 this year, I and current Prime Minister Gahr met two apprentices from Aukra at Vard Langsten. Every day they have to pay 253 kroner in ferry tickets to get to work, even with the full discount and the reduction that came in the RNB. It's going to be 58 190 kroner a year, and then the apprentices have to keep both the car and the diesel. We might agree that there's a lot of money for a first year apprentice, but now it's as well-known ordinary people's turn. The Labour Party and the Centre Party are in favour of reducing the price of the Vestnes ferry by more than one third from today’s level, while the Aukra ferry will be free of charge. It's probably going to mean a lot, both for the two apprentices on Vard Langsten and hundreds of thousands of other ferry travelers along the coast. It means something to who governs the country, and it means that coasts and districts are finally given priority. That's what we mean in the Workers' Party when we say, "Now the common people are going."
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e11998	In recent years, we have had a more centralised Norway, and it has not come about by itself. It has come because there has been a policy that has systematically led to increased bureaucracy and the centralisation of power and services. Centralisation is not a law of nature; it is largely a result of political decisions and the use of instruments. The results of the autumn elections gave a clear majority for a change in course, and we have presented a government platform that is a very good starting point for implementing the change needed to make the whole country operational. I look forward to the job that will be done here in Stortinget to give us a new and more fair course for the whole country. There have been criticisms that the Hurdal platform points to things we want to reverse. This is about more than reverse. This is about repairing, it's about rebuilding services that make people and business get the services that the public is set to deliver. It's our welfare state it's about. It's the security of people it's all about. It's our districts it's all about. We're going to go from a government that centralizes and builds down the districts, to one that builds up and gives people opportunities for the good life throughout the country. In this work, the digital infrastructure is crucial. The centre party and the Workers' Party will make access to high-capacity internets a right equal to electricity, and I am pleased to secure all the households where they live permanently, that access by 2025. After ten years as rapporteur in a small district municipality in Agder, I know all about how little networks are being built into the districts when the market is available, and I know a lot about how difficult everyday life is for both people and businesses when they do not have solid access to the Internet. Lack of broadband creates class barriers, and lack of broadband creates an outside cabinet. There are increasing numbers of services we need to solve digitally, and more and more services we can get digitally, and for most people it makes everyday life easier – whether we have access to the Internet, well and brand. The truth is, the digital obligations are many for the inhabitants of our country, but the digital rights have been neglected. I'm glad we're now going to give the Norwegian people a digital right, because this is an important grip that will give less social differences and less geographical differences.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e12011	Strengthened defence capabilities have been leveraged by Battle Force Vedum. I don't know if I'm going to take it as an insult, but I've been a soldier in Homeland for over 20 years, and one of the first things that happens when the government has to step up and strengthen my defense is that I get a call – not for practice, but for delivering the equipment. [[Laughter]] So I'll do that tomorrow. I can agree that it in itself strengthens the defence capability, but I had hoped it was not such a simple and visible grip that had to be done. In the government platform, I have seen that it says that one should not buy services from communication agencies. After seeing the Political Quarter on Friday and today and listening to all the answers that have been asked about fuel taxes, I think the government had earned some services from communication agencies, because it has been the clinic impossible to understand what is going to happen with the pump price, and what the government parties have decided for. I saw that NRK Satiriks has made a funny report after Friday's Political Quarter, but the problem is that what is marked as satire on the NRK's pages is almost the same as was said in the broadcast. So far, we have not received a response as to whether the pump price should rise or whether it should fall, or whether it should only increase less than it could have done, before it should possibly fall. I hope we can get a clarification on this during tomorrow, and I would have preferred to see that the hall here had voted in favour of our proposal to cut the fuel and diesel charges by NOK 3. There are two solutions I would like to warn against. That is proposal No. 26, from the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Shortly after the party of progress left the government, the Right-Registration has dealt with a climate issue and reported enhanced emissions targets of 55 pst. by 2030. At the time it was the Left who had a solo party at home and reported enhanced climate targets without any idea of cost or global impact. I would recommend that the parties to the government vote on proposal No. 14, from the Right, which is just enough proof that it is symbolism that is the most important thing in climate policy. There must be thorough work on it, one must not be hasty, and one must know the economic consequences. I would recommend to the government in the cases where the distance from the Advance Party is less than the distance from SV, first to come to us – whether it is the desire for a sensible predatory policy, strict immigration policy, reduced fuel charges, developing the oil industry or other climate policies. Our door is open.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e12024	I'm glad that with this year's elections we have managed to replace a majority at Stortinget. I am pleased that we have gone from a government that has lived on grace from the Progress Party, but that has aged its budgets by cutting public welfare, to a new government that has ambitions to bet on community and public welfare. I'm unfortunately a little impressed with this government platform. It does not say anything about manning standards in the health and care sector. Until I was elected to Stortinget, I have worked in the first line service. I know too many people who don't have whole and regular jobs to go to. I know too many women who are waiting for a phone call from the job or a text message from the employer about extra guards. One of my strongest memories is when I was on the leisure offer to my son. I was free and standing with another mother, who was called from work, and she was happy to be able to watch the following day. She could speculate on the small and uncertain income that she had from a 40 pst. position in the health and care sector. She has known what it is to not be enough people at work. There are enough people here who don't know what it means when there aren't enough people working in the health and care sector, but I can tell you that means that those who are going to do the job have to go over more tasks than there is time for. Anyone in need of help is given less time and care than is needed. That means that things that have to be done, don't be done, that patients stay lying for a long time without getting help, because there's not enough time, not enough people, not enough resources to give the time that's needed. This means trying to turn the time and resources that are not there out of overtime employees, and they work in small part-time jobs and are not in a position to protest or premise for their own jobs. They get the burden of all the missing resources and blame for everything that goes wrong. They don't get paid well enough for the time being on the job either. We know enough about what it's like to be in involuntary part-time. We know what it's like to have too few people working in the health and care sector. We need to do something about it. We need to set aside resources for proper manning, rather than making harmful use of women working in the health and care sector. Therefore, I am disappointed that this government does not say anything about the standard of manning. I expect our new government to offer a promise to solve the manning and stress crisis in the health and care sector. The time for fine party speeches must be up. We must implement the policy required by both the trade union movement and the women's movement. And I look forward to constructive cooperation with the Hurdals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e12035	The Government Platform offers a new direction. It offers new and better times. It gives a good direction where the whole country is going to be used, where the differences among people are going to be smaller, geographical differences are going to be reduced, and services near people are going to be in focus. The Government Declaration states that no community should be overrun, no municipalities or counties should experience coercion or pressure to merge. Local communities must be able to decide more for themselves. People should be able to have greater influence over their own lives and shape their own future. On several occasions we have learned how important it is with local folklore and not least with leadership when crises occur. Therefore, it is important to trust those who, in most cases, are very close to the population, precisely the municipalities. I am also pleased to read in the government statement that a binding and timely plan is to be presented to close the income gap between agriculture and other groups in society. Small and medium-sized applications shall be strengthened by a targeted investment scheme so that they can also meet the unbundling requirement. The government has ambitions to launch it already in the next state budget. Let me also mention some specific issues from the government platform that will affect my own part of the country. The government will establish building-growth agreements. There shall be a new regional policy instrument for development and growth, and with a long-term framework, aimed at strengthening business and housing in District Norway. Building growth agreements shall be long-term agreements between the country and the districts with a particular need for support for industrial development. One of the first pilots is going to be Inner Namdal. The northern part of Trondelag, as in the rest of the country, has a decentralised hospital structure. It shall ensure preparedness and provide all our citizens with sound and safe treatment. But at the Namsos hospital, it is not possible to land with the new rescue helicopters. It is pointed out in the acquisition as a critical and major challenge that weakens the ability to provide good prehospital services at the hospital. The government will ensure the establishment of landing sites for the new rescue helicopters, the SAR Queen. It's a good signal to send to all the mermaids who go to our hospital in Namsos. The government has resigned from the Workers' Party and the Center Party has made a platform that suits the country, and that suits my constituency, the Nord-Trøndelag, well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-20.ana.ud207e12050	Then the clock has turned 22, and Stortinget takes a break in the negotiations. Those who are still on the list of speakers will receive posts tomorrow, and you don't have to redraw. Tomorrow, the meeting will begin at 9 p.m. 10th@item: inlistbox The first speaker is Prime Minister Jonas Gahr Støre, and then we continue with the list of speakers. - The meeting's been cancelled.
