ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e78	For the sake of infection, the President would suggest that the audience gallery be held closed even during the meeting today, and see it as agreed. From the Workers' Party's Group, there is a request that the approved leave of the representative Øystein Langholm Hansen be changed from 23 to 25 February to apply until further notice. The President recommends that this application be dealt with immediately and approves – and sees it as agreed. The President will recommend that other alternates of Rogaland, Tom Kalsås, be called to meet during the leave period from 8 March – and also see it as agreed. The representative, Emilie Enger Mehl, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e97	On behalf of the representatives Siv Mossleth, Sigbjørn Gülsvik and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal to investigate how Norway is affected by secrecy and lack of democracy in the EU. Then I will put forward a proposal on behalf of the representatives of Geir Pollestad, Sandra Borch, Per Olaf Lundteigen, Siv Mossleth, Liv Signe Navarsette, Jenny Klinge and myself to secure the future of the goats in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e104	The representative, Gisle Meininger Saudland, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e109	On behalf of the big business representatives Erlend Wiborg, Silje Hemdal, Terje Halleland and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal to simplify the electricity market for the benefit of the consumer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e114	The representative, Siv Mossleth, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e119	On behalf of Bengt Fasteraune and myself, I would like to make a proposal to remove taxes on free cards and staff discounts. Then I would like to promote a representative proposal from Bengt Fasteraune, Heidi Greni, Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen, Liv Signe Navarsete and myself on a strong expansion of mobile coverage across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e126	The representative, Mr Aasrud, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e131	On behalf of Lise Christoffersen, Arild Grande, Fredric Holen Bjørdal, Eva Kristin Hansen, Tuva Moflag, Elise Bjørnebeck-Waaagen and myself, I will present a proposal for a strengthened hub.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e137	The representative, Seher Aydar, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e142	Red promotes proposals for a new global vaccine and pharmaceutical regime based on self-sufficiency, solidarity and cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e147	The proposal will be managed in accordance with the rules of procedure. Before the items in the meeting card are taken up for processing, the President will inform you that the meeting is continuing beyond noon today. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e167	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes per party group and 5 minutes per government member. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e174	As the rapporteur, I would first like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation on the position, which concludes with three unanimous proposals for decisions. So I want to use the rest of the article to present the Workers' Party's position and suggestions. The challenges of student mobility are great, and they have become even greater during the coronary apathy. Too few Norwegian students leave. The ratio has been stable for a long time around 16 pst. So it's well below 20 pst. Norway has committed itself via the Bologna process, and it is far from the national long-term objective. The pandemic has created problems for international students, and there is widespread expectation that it will also put mobility back in the future. The working party has repeatedly called for active measures from the government. This Communication has a good estimate, but it is far from adequate in meeting the challenges. In addition, we think it is problematic that the government places the responsibility so unilaterally on the apprenticeships, for the cultural change of students and colleges cannot be the whole answer here. Practical challenges, little support and assistance and high costs have prevented students from leaving before the pandemic. Norwegian universities and colleges are now in several heavy processes of change, with reduced space for action as a result of repeated annual budget cuts. We will need a common national commitment and more active action if we are to achieve the national targets. In addition, the Workers' Party supports the core lines of the message with active unsubscribe, exchange as part of study programmes, topic packages and mobility windows. But we're skeptical that shorter study stays generally give the same counting as longer. In summary, we want a more offensive policy that ensures equal access to international education, regardless of geographical or economic background, study programme or level of function. We will make it easier to use foreign competences and believe that a more comprehensive approach to internationalisation is needed, which includes higher education, colleges and research. We are promoting 14 proposals and hope that most of them will receive support today. Let me just mention some of them: it's a pleasure that the committee is behind proposals that are intended to make it easier to get accepted education from abroad, and to lower the barriers for students with planning needs. Support for the joint proposal with the Centre Party and the Progress Party that Norwegian students abroad should be able to work without losing membership in the public interest is also important. The Labour Party proposes that the free principle should not be waived. The Right Party and the Advance Party will introduce school money for international students. It will exclude, create inequalities and weaken internationalisation. The Workers' Party also proposes to adjust the Panorama strategy. We will facilitate equal opportunities for going out and in to study and believe that the necessary diversity is weakened by further investment in a handful of countries with which Norway has an economic interest in cooperating. The working party is skeptical that short stays abroad should count as much as longer – I mentioned it instead. The goal of longer stay should be maintained, and it should be possible to allow for exceptions for students who, for various reasons, need more short-term exchanges, such as: professional training. We are therefore proposing to consider degrading economic counts according to their duration and to distinguish between short and longer stays in the statistics. Exchanges should be possible, irrespective of economic background. Therefore, we believe that the student economy should have been more addressed in the message than it is. The Workers' Party proposes that the government ensure equal access through good funding mechanisms, including to the highly ranked universities. The Labour Party has always been at the forefront of more internationalisation and international cooperation in higher education. Already in 2016, we agreed that exchange would be the norm. Knowledge is the key to Norway’s further development. Knowledge is global, and education and research must be developed in interaction with a good professional environment abroad. Therefore, internationalisation is important not only for the quality of education and research, but also for Norway’s capacity for necessary conversion, innovation, value creation and societal development. Equally important, I would add, is that internationalization builds bridges between people and promotes cultural understanding. I am promoting the proposals of which the Workers' Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e197	The representative Nina Sandberg has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e202	International cooperation and dialogue across borders are prerequisites for addressing the major global societal challenges we face. Today’s students and students will meet an increasingly international working life and challenges that require international cooperation. We must ensure that they are equipped with the skills they need to be able to stand in the working life of the future. I would therefore like to stress the importance of the government's student mobility message. It is important that more students leave for a shorter or longer period, because there is little doubt that both students and work and business can benefit from international perspectives and intercultural competence in addition to professional knowledge. The yield of a foreign residence for linguistic and cultural competence is likely to increase with increasing duration of residence and therefore more extensive for full-time students, but the students themselves believe that both exchange and short-term study stays abroad provide good learning outcomes and motivation for further studies, according to studies conducted by Diku. Those with shorter study stays of up to three months are also more satisfied than those who are out there. Government parties therefore support the government's introduction of pay-outs for stays between one and three months in the funding system and indicate that pay-outs will also have a special impact on professional education and training for short stays. However, we stress that it is important for most exchanges that they are of longer duration, so that students can make full use of the knowledge and experience they gain by studying at an institution abroad. Under the EEA Agreement, Norway participates in the world’s largest education programme, Erasmus+. Since 1992, around 83 000 Norwegian students, students, apprentices, youth workers and teachers have participated in this training programme and received grants to exchange with an EU country. Participation in Erasmus+ contributes to the strengthening and improvement of international cooperation in education at all levels. It is therefore important that Norway continues to participate in Erasmus+. Organisation and inclusion are important aspects of EU education policy. All educational institutions participating in Erasmus+ have undertaken to facilitate disabled persons. Students in need of organisation who go to Erasmus+ residence in Europe may be entitled to additional scholarships. The funds shall cover documented additional costs in the case of disabilities, chronic diseases or other conditions resulting in organisational needs. However, the feedback from the NSO and Young People with Disabilities is that the organisation is not sufficient for students with disabilities and chronic illness to travel abroad. We therefore ask that the government assess whether arrangements and services are sufficient to allow students with needs for organisation to also go to student exchanges abroad. It is in order to ensure a more comprehensive support system that contributes to increasing the mobility of these students. All Nordics shall have the opportunity to take higher education regardless of their social and economic background. Maintaining the free principle for all students studying in Norway, as the government is doing now, is therefore very important. However, the possibility of studying at the best universities abroad must also apply regardless of the social and economic context. The costs of studying at foreign elite universities can be very high. The scheme of additional grants from the Loan Fund is important in this way, but this tool can be even more focused, so that it works more according to purpose, because it will be a strength for Norway if several Norwegian students take all or part of the education at international and elite universities. Norwegian students who go out to take new knowledge, perspectives and networks home provide Norwegian work and business with the required skills and innovation skills. Vice Verse is a very important resource for students entering the labour market in Norway after they have completed their studies. Internationalisation is therefore important not only for the quality of education and research but also for Norway’s ability to adapt, innovation, value creation and societal development.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e218	In this big message we see that the dividing lines go between the Progress Party and the other parties, because although I am glad that we get a majority in favour of the proposal that Norwegian students abroad should be able to work without losing membership in popular terms, the Progress Party alone is saying not to support a target on the number of students on exchange. We are alone not to support the need for a balance between students in and out. It is wrong, what the case rapporteur said that the Right agrees with the Advance Party in introducing a tuition fee for foreign students – we are alone. We are alone in depriving foreign students of priority in student housing, and we are alone in demanding closer and more formalised cooperation between the PST and the Academy. The progress party believes it is positive that students get international experience, and is positive that Norwegian students go out and take shorter and longer study stays abroad. Many students want to benefit and enjoy a stay abroad, but that's 50 pst. shall be a clean desktop design on which the Progress Party will not be involved. Internationalisation is a means, not a goal, and we are not involved in internationalisation for the sake of internationalisation. Today, the Progress Party is proposing a tuition fee for foreign students. Norway is currently using 3.3 billion. kr for foreign students and an increase from 16 pst. to 50 pst. with requirements for balance sheet, will lead to large additional costs for Norwegian taxpayers. The countries with most degree students today are China, Sweden, Germany, Denmark, Syria, Nepal, India and Iran. The councils have said that he thinks it's funny that Nepal is high up. No, it's not funny at all that students from a poor country like Nepal want free education in Norway. Norway has few universities that score high on international rankings. The cost level is high. It's not a particularly friendly climate, and we have a language that is only understood in Scandinavia. So the cost of education is the biggest bait we have, and we're going to simplify the whole bill to the taxpayers. We think that's wrong. Foreign students should first and foremost apply to Norway because of the quality of their education, not because it is free. We still believe that the free principle should apply to Norwegian students, but we think it is reasonable that foreign students have to pay if Norwegian students have to pay to go to a university in their home country. We also propose removing the preference of foreign students for student housing. The number of non-resident students in Norway has more than tripled in 20 years, from approx. 6 000 to 21,000, and they are not only offered free education. The student democracy with all student relations has decided that foreign students should go in front of Norwegian students in the queue for student housing. In 2020 it was approx. 38,000 student housing units, with approx. 6,200 were used by international students. Today, the majority in this room are proposing to increase the number of Norwegian students out of the country at the same time as a balance between the arrival and departure, i.e. equal numbers, and the Central Party and the Workers' Party also have a note asking for even more. Today, there are 21,000 foreign students, 8,700 of whom are exchange students. If we're going to increase the number of exchange students to the same number as those entering, that means about 14,500 more. If we're going to assume that the same proportion of the increase is going to use student homes, that means that we're going to need 4,500 more student homes that will only be set aside for the expected increase in foreign students. With a rate of expansion of 1,650 student homes this year, it means that everything we build over the next three years will go to foreign students that we expect to come, at a cost of about 2 billion. kr. It is a priority the Progress Party cannot participate in. So the progress party says no to the goal of how many students we want in and out of the country. We propose a tuition fee for foreign students. We suggest removing the preference of foreign students in student housing. At the same time, we look with great scepticism at increasing cooperation with countries with which we do not have a security policy cooperation, such as the United States. China and Russia, against which the PST in their annual threat assessment warns, and against which the government in this big business message emerges as priority countries of cooperation. So we want more formalized cooperation between the PST and the academy than what's going on today, but we also get the majority of the population against us.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e235	The President takes the view that the representative will make these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e240	Yes, very much.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e245	Then the representative Roy Steffensen has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e250	The center party thinks student exchange is a sensible thing. Knowledge is global, and education and research must be developed in interaction with a good professional environment abroad. I think that shipping if we haven't achieved the goals we've set ourselves, it's after all a lot of students who look forward to getting a student exchange as part of the degree they're going to take in Norwegian universities. That's good, and then we get to hope that more people can get into it eventually, and there's a common goal from the committee in the configuration. Not only does exchange contribute to new knowledge, I think it also contributes to inter-human understanding, and it broadens the horizon of those who travel out, and those who come here to Norway. At the same time, we are right now in a situation where the pandemic limits quite a lot of student exchange. I think a lot of students are sorry that they're losing this opportunity, or that it's going to be very late and not fit in to the degree they might have wanted. The centre party supports the main lines of the setting, but we will, like others, also point out that we believe that encouraging increased exchange is a shared responsibility between the universities and the authorities. Of course, it is the schools that organize the work of exchange, and as such have a responsibility, but it must not be the responsibility of one to shift all responsibility over to them. Practical challenges, little support or assistance and costs are also things that need to be addressed by the authorities. We in the Center Party want a varied student exchange to different countries. I don't know if it's a fashion phenomenon, but I'm a little bit critical of some of the calls you've had for special countries. I understand that there are some people in this room who are very concerned about Erasmus, and Erasmus is excellent, the Center Party is for us to be in Erasmus. So one has got this Panorama strategy, which is about the emerging economies of the'merging economies', that is, the emerging economies, which the universities also sail, at least the largest, have been very concerned about – i.e. Brazil, India, Japan, China, Russia and South Africa. I think that one should be more varied and avoid being too attached to the kind of priority countries or groups of countries, but be concerned that one looks at where students can get the best possible knowledge exchange when they are out in the study stay. Therefore, the Central Party also believes that the government now needs to further develop the possibilities for mutual cooperation in exchange with the United Kingdom. Once the United Kingdom has left Erasmus, Norwegian authorities will have to work to develop the student exchange between Norway and the United Kingdom in the years to come and take a more active role related to it. There are a few things we agree on in the message that are important to highlight. One is that industry too must wish, appreciate and appreciate the exchange that Norwegian students have had. There, I still think there's a way to go before the companies properly value the skills they acquire through the exchange you're on. Then I think the universities are nice, but it is also necessary to insert the exchange carefully to the degree that the students take. The centre party is not so skeptical as to pay off for short stays. I also see the arguments from the other side, and I think it is important that most exchanges are of longer duration, but especially for professional training, I think shorter study stays of one–three months can also be important. It was also highlighted during the hearing, including: by the educational institutions. The centre party is in agreement with the Workers' Party and SV on a number of proposals that we believe will improve the setting. I would also like to mention that the Central Party will subsidize proposal No. 1 in the settings.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e269	It is good that the government has provided a big message about international student mobility, a world of opportunities, because it really is. Knowledge is global, and education and research must be developed in interaction with good professional environments abroad. Thus, internationalisation is important not only for the quality of education and research, but also for Norway’s ability to adapt, innovation, value creation and societal development. Dissemination of knowledge and cooperation across borders and professional environments is a central task of the Academy. The Communication contains important measures to achieve the ambitious goal of moving half of Norwegian students on an exchange basis. Internationalisation of education is important for society and for cross-border cohesion and cultural exchanges and will contribute to increasing the quality of education. That was today's boast, so until we in SV are not as satisfied with: We believe that from a political point of view, more needs to be done to make it easier for students to leave. One of the reasons why fewer Norwegian students take part of the studies abroad is financially justified. Despite scholarships and school money support schemes, a foreign residence will impose a higher debt burden on many students than if they took up education only in Norway. It is a weakness that the notification does not provide for an overall review of the GSC. SV will strongly warn against removing the free principle of higher education and against introducing school fees or tuition for international students. These are measures that exclude more people, create inequality and weaken internationalisation. For these reasons, the free principle of higher education should be indispensable. Furthermore, the government's closure of the quota programme has resulted in fewer students from the global south. The government’s compensation schemes have not had enough effect, and we are concerned about the future breadth and diversity of the student group coming to Norway. The former allowance scheme had its weaknesses, but also its obvious strengths, as well as promoting student exchange from the global south. Norwegian higher education is getting poorer if we lose students from developing countries. It is very important for SV that student activists who come from developing countries and are denied access to teaching places in their home country because of their activism have an opportunity to complete their education in Norway. Therefore, we in SV are very clear that we need to continue and strengthen the ‘Students at Risk’ programme and in the long term make it permanent. We will emphasise that in the future it will be essential – essential – that the government does not weaken mechanisms that promote exchange, We are very critical of the government's proposal to halve the travel allowance for foreign students in the state budget for 2021. We need to find ways to enable exchange stays for all, regardless of the economy and the family background. Then it emerged during the hearing that students with disabilities and chronic illness are significantly less likely to participate in exchanges than their fellow students. This is due to the fact that this student group meets on a number of barriers that prevent them from taking a foreign stay. Young people with disabilities have missed concrete measures that can help increase mobility among students with disabilities. Therefore, SV now submits a legislative proposal to ensure that students with disabilities and who wish to move to an exchange are entitled to a temporary derogation from the rules that these benefits and services should only be used within the borders of the State. Finally, the government should better facilitate people who have their education from another country and that they can be approved for use in Norway. Persons with foreign education or professional qualifications form an essential part of the Norwegian labour force, and many need to have their skills recognised. And with that, I take up the proposal that SV alone is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e295	The representative of Mona Fagerås has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e300	When I was going to make the choice about which studies I wanted to conduct, there was little talk about the rest of the world and international studies. We heard about some sports talent that received scholarships, especially in the United States, and it was a classmate who chose the medical school abroad. Otherwise, it was a little bit. Fortunately, there are much more topical and good opportunities for taking a foreign education today. Student policy is constantly evolving. In the past, we have been pressing for and receiving 11 months of study support. The left has also worked hard for more student homes, more places to study, higher quality teaching and research in higher education. We've achieved all of this. At the same time, we have strengthened the provision of well-being to the students, especially under the corona. Just recently, a help package came to the students of over 1 billion. kr. for increased support, jobs and improved mental health protection for students. In 2018, the government launched an ambitious long-term plan for research and higher education. In the budget for 2021, money is spent on decentralised and flexible higher education. New educational buildings provide students with good employment. There I can mention that in my own home town, Trondheim, you are now running a one-campus solution that becomes very valuable both for students and for the city. Only in 2021 will we increase the educational capacity of universities and colleges equivalent to about 5,000 new students. That's the way it should be. The left has always worked for the students, and we're going to keep working for them. That is why we are particularly pleased with the ambitions for increased student exchange and enhanced support in the mobility message also in this case. More than possibly ever, it's especially important that our young people see and are part of the whole world. Some politicians want to divide the world into them and us, split and rule and set groups up against each other. Nothing is more undermining to society than pettyly divisive politicians who cultivate contradictions. Therefore, today, the Left is so incredibly pleased that the Stortinge supports the positive and common solutions in society under which this Communication is based: international cooperation, cultural understanding and professional and personal development. The government believes that student mobility is part of strategic efforts to enhance the quality and relevance of higher education. It's a privilege for the Left to be part of the government that gives our young people a piece of the world, a piece of community across language and culture, a piece of professional knowledge and research and education – a world of opportunities. International student mobility in higher education with its many good measures and goals reflects the values we want to harness in society, and provides our young people with many opportunities for the best possible future. At the end of my post I would also mention what it has to say to a city like Trondheim that we have international students. They're quite a lot, I think the goal now is ten pst. And there's a lot of students in Trondheim. First, the students give the city a big life, and in addition, these international students enrich Trondheim in a very good way. They're very busy being in the student community as well as in the urban environment. I hope that Norwegian students in both the long and the short term can experience studying abroad, and not least that we also receive many.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e317	We live in an increasingly globalized society, and our young people today call themselves world citizens. When I was young, study dreams were limited within borders and partly within the country, while the young people today lay the world at their feet when they dream about and plan their study life. In the future, students and students will meet an increasingly international working life and challenges that require international cooperation. It is therefore important that we make sure that we give them the skills they need to be able to stand in the working life of the future. Our mission as politicians is therefore to provide good frameworks and tools to ensure the international student mobility of our students. With this message, the government will give students better opportunities to leave, and we are landing a lot of good measures today. The notification gives clear expectation that the internationalisation work, cooperation agreements and student mobility will be fully integrated into the other tasks of the educational institution. This gives us a completely necessary integration of student mobility into the course of study. But we're still not quite in the goal. It is therefore important in the further work that the focus is on those areas where we see that the student benefit of student mobilisation is extra large. If we look at student imports from the poorest countries in the south, it's one of the areas where we're not in the target. The Christian People's Party believes it is important that Norway contributes by taking an additional responsibility for accepting students from the poorest countries. We believe that the NORPART programme will be an important tool for achieving this objective. We strengthened the programme in the state budget for 2020 by 15 million. Dr to full-time students and looks forward to our success as a host country for even more students from the poorest countries of sub-Saharan Africa. With this government's support for NORPART, we show that we are more successful in building institutions in the south and strengthening institutional cooperation between the north and the south. This has the direct consequence that students from the south will receive increased quality upon arrival in the host country, and that institutions are better rigged for cooperation and student mobility across. That's good. Another important element that needs to be lifted in this case is that not everyone is equally mobile even though they are students. Therefore, it is necessary that we work to improve the facilities for those with disabilities who need adapted measures to make use of residence abroad. Student mobility should not be an exclusion arena, but an arena for inclusion. However, although all educational institutions participating in Erasmus+ have undertaken to facilitate disabled persons, the feedback from the NSO and young people with disabilities is that organisation is not sufficient to enable students with disabilities to travel abroad as they function today, unfortunately. One of the challenges addressed by the NSO and the Young People with Disabilities was that today, students with disabilities and chronic illness are prevented from taking a foreign stay in the studies because they are not allowed to take benefits or services out of the country. An overall committee therefore asks today that the government assess whether arrangements and services are sufficient to enable students with needs for organisation to also go to student exchanges abroad. Another challenge has been related to the organisation itself. That is why I am pleased that a joint committee today is also asking the government to propose active measures to increase student mobility among students with needs for organisation. We need to ensure a more comprehensive support system that helps to increase mobility among students with disabilities. Some of the work can be done politically, but much of the work is also an information and awareness-raising work. We have to get out with information that makes disabled students secure that this is a real choice for them. We also need to work with people with disabilities by breaking down all kinds of constraints in society. Instead of seeing constraints, we need to focus on how we can create opportunities for everyone. If we're going to increase student mobility, it has to be done for all students. There are many good and important measures in this Communication, and I am pleased that we are choosing to be ambitious on behalf of the sector and to decide that with this we want to contribute to a cultural change in the university and higher education sectors. This is about giving an opportunity through both formal and informal knowledge through a longer or shorter period abroad. That's how we build tolerance, and that's how we build a brighter society.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e338	It may be a little contradictory to give a big message that more students are going out, when the recommendations in the last year have been that everyone should move as much as possible. But we're going back to normal, and when we get there, we're going to be even better at international student mobility than we've been. I would like to thank the Committee for its thorough consideration of the biggest report. I am pleased that we share the idea that knowledge is global, and that education and research need to be developed in interaction with good professional environments abroad. Internationalisation is important, not only for the quality of education and research, but also for Norway’s capacity for necessary conversion, innovation, value creation and societal development. Norway is a small and open economy that depends on trade with the rest of the world. Clearly, the EU is our main trading partner, but China and the United States are also important. Norway also imports more than 700 billion goods. kr. For example, Germany is the country from which we imported most passenger cars last year. With what's behind it, it's a paradox that Norwegian students see little beyond the world when they're going to graduate. The proportion that travels out has been stable at 16 pst. in recent years, and there are wide variations between universities and higher education institutions. The aim of this big message is for us to become more international. Several students shall take all or part of their degree abroad. We're going to think more strategically about where the students travel, and which countries we attract students from. And we're going to make sure that those who, for different reasons, cannot leave, get an international impact on their education here at home. The government is happy in its entirety, and it is precisely the whole of action to help us achieve these objectives. I'm still going to break it up a little bit. First, we need to have clear expectations for universities and colleges. They must work strategically to establish mutual and long-term cooperation with foreign institutions. They must integrate internationalisation into everything they do, and they should conclude common agreements on exchanges between themselves. Second, we're going to make it easier for more people to get out. Many students point out that it is uncertain whether they have accepted the topics they have taken abroad, in their degree here at home. Therefore, institutions must organise education in such a way that it is clear to the students when it is appropriate to go on exchange. They should also offer pre-authorised topic packages so that students know in advance that they will receive their approved education when they come home. We also want to make exchanges into the general rule in the long term. This means that instead of signing up for an exchange, you have to sign up. It's still going to be voluntary, but we think turning the system upside down will make more people think about the possibilities abroad. Thirdly, we want to turn the study aid, so that more people travel to just priority countries. Today, the countries to which Norwegian students travel are at random, reflecting to a small extent Norway’s priorities and key cooperation countries in neither knowledge nor business. And too few go to non-English-speaking countries. Fourthly, we will also give a discharge in the funding system for shorter exchanges. It is an objective that most students stay for more than three months, but shorter exchanges are better than no exchanges, and such stays can inspire longer stays later. This change is particularly important for professional training. And fifth, we'll be more strategic in terms of which students we recruit to Norwegian institutions. Today it is too random which countries the foreign students in Norway come from. For a long time, other countries have pursued a conscious policy of who they attract, and for two reasons in particular: it strengthens the quality of their own education and attracts the necessary skills. We will therefore set up a working group to propose how we should profile Norway as a knowledge nation abroad, and what kind of international students we want to attract. Through the Bologna process, we have committed ourselves to 20 pst. students must have had a study or practical stay in the field. In the government's quality report, we set ourselves an even higher target. We want that 50 pst. by Norwegian students, and it is ambitious when – as I said – we are at 16 pst. In other words, we have a piece left before we reach our common goals. However, Norwegian employment and business needs more good people with international experience in a globalised labour market. And not least, both the coronary apathy and the climate crisis need us to cooperate more on research and education across borders.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e368	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e373	The cancellation message will help us to reach the goal that half of the students should have had a foreign stay during the study. The councils talked about being inspired. Internationalisation early in the course of the study has proved to be an important step towards getting students abroad, and those who have been in exchange for higher education have, for example, much more likely also to go out and take all or part of the degree abroad when they become students. In order to plan exchanges in higher education, it is usually necessary to obtain information on the possibilities already available in upper secondary education. Does the Council of State see that this implies a more holistic approach to mobility, and how will the government ensure that internationalisation is more comprehensive both in initial, higher vocational and higher education — and research?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e380	I definitely see that. This is a feedback we've also received from ANSA, who's talked a little bit to their own members, and a lot of them have been studying in high school as well. So trying it out earlier is very, very important. Now, the Minister of Knowledge will soon come with a message about high school, where this is going to be one of the issues that is important to discuss, not only in the Communication, but also in the Stortinget – how one can contribute to more of it. Then I'm very happy that we've extended Erasmus+, and that we're joining a new period. It's a very important exchange program, not just for high school students, but not least for high school students. I believe that we have put a big message in place here that I am pleased to have received support from the Stortinget, because there are a lot of moves there that are about internationalising education in a comprehensive way. I might particularly stress that it should also be possible to have international exchanges at home, i.e. simply digital cooperation with other important institutions for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e389	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I said that the Workers' Party is a little skeptical about giving shorter exchanges the same financial outlay, and that's because it's very far up to the 50 percent target, and such a grip might be an instinct that revolves more of the mobility towards one-month stays, not least in the professional studies. There are challenges to professional studies, but there are also good examples of professional studies, such as: on juss at the University of Bergen and on nursing care at the Högskulen in the West, which has an impressive exchange – thanks to measures and organisation. The question then arises: does the Council of State consider that there might be reason to consider the effect of grading the financial statement for foreign residence by duration, so that the professional studies do not inadvertently become a type of different study — unless the culture of exchange?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e396	I am a strong supporter of that measure, to provide funding for shorter study stays, but I believe that the representative is also drawing out some dilemmas in such an action, namely that we have to make sure that there is no quantitative effort to achieve such a percentage. Even if we're ambitious and say 50 pst. exchange, it shouldn't be that we just have to measure it. The important thing is that the students actually get out, and that more people do. I think, quite simply, that even in the funding system, providing support for shorter stays, as I said in my post, can contribute to more exchange. It is almost a small bridge to the previous question from the representative, namely on exchanges in higher education, which leads to more exchange in higher education. I think this can also contribute to it. So I want to repeat that I think a little exchange is better than no exchange. It's not because we're going to reach this goal, but it's really about many students -- we know from feedback from the students -- getting to know new cultures and learning a language, but also by challenging themselves in a slightly different way than you do at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e403	In an answer to a written question in the autumn, the Council of State wrote that we spend 3.3 billion. kr on foreign students today, and the Progress Party therefore proposed the introduction of a study fee for foreign students. I thought the Council of State would agree with us on that, because in 2014 the Progress Party – Right-wing Government proposed this when the representative was on the Education Committee at Stortinget. In September 2020, as a member of the Programme Committee of the Right, the Council of State indicated that they wished to apply for a tuition fee for foreign students. But now, in 2021, the Council of State will not have a tuition fee for foreign students. So I wonder, can the Council of State explain what is the reason why he is fighting against the proposals of the Progress Party on the tuition fee for foreign students?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e408	If I don't remember completely wrong, I even believe that the Right Party and the Advance Party proposed to apply the study fee twice for foreign students. It was dismal by the Storting both times. Then it is quite right, as the representative points out, that I also have party politics, and there are many important issues being discussed, but I am also Minister of Research and Higher Education in Norway. I am steering by a platform in a government that is opposed to introducing tuition fees for foreign students, and just as in all other cases, there are good arguments for and against. I am absolutely sure there are members of the committee who are also opposed to introducing tuition fees, but who see some arguments for it. What I think is the argument against it is that it will dramatically reduce the number of foreign students coming to Norway. We have seen this from other European countries that have introduced it: that the number of students who come to the country where they impose the levy falls dramatically. And if we want foreign students to come to Norway too – not just to be nice, but because it improves the quality of Norwegian higher education – I think it would be a wrong tool now to implement it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e418	To that particular concern that there may be fewer foreign students coming to Norway: I do not share the concern, because that would also include for example: have led to several Norwegian students having obtained a student residence. We had a small case in the newspaper between us, where the council said that he did not share the concern of the Progress Party that all student housing to be built in the next few years will go to foreign students, for the proportion of foreign students who use student housing has remained stable in the last few years. But the very point of the big message is that even more people are going out, and you have to have a balance. So more people are going to come in, and more people want student housing. So I wonder: does the Council of State dispute the figures mentioned in the Dagbladet case, and as I mentioned from the pulpit today, that there may be 14,000 more students coming to Norway – if we are to use the same figures and balance in and out?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e423	If we achieve all the goals we have, it could lead to the arrival of so many foreign students in Norway. But then we in the Right and Advance Party have done a lot of trickery together. One of the things we've been doing is giving back power to the people -- the students of the social system. That means that they have a majority of these boards, and they also determine the priority of who's going to get student housing. This is something that is being discussed on an ongoing basis. That's why I think it's interesting to show that although several foreign students have arrived, the proportion of foreign students taking up student residences is quite stable at 15 p.m. That means 85 pst. are Norwegian students. And if the relationships see that they want to change the priorities or want to prioritize the foreign students because they want to, I think it's a decision that they should be allowed to make, and that I'm not going to sit in a department in Oslo and try them out. I have submitted this big message and am pleased that Stortinget is joining it, because I want more internationalisation – both into Norway, and that Norwegian students are going out.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e430	In its speech, the Council of State mentioned several countries that were important for Norway in terms of student exchanges: the United States, China, Germany with large car production, etc. Another country that is important for Norway and Norwegian business and Norwegian education and research is the United Kingdom. We have extensive cooperation between the business life of the two countries, a large export market for Norway, and at the same time they have qualitatively seen very good higher education. After all, the United Kingdom is out of Erasmus+ and setting up its own programmes, and the question is simply: What initiatives has a Norwegian-speaking country taken to achieve bilateral cooperation between Norway and the United Kingdom on student exchanges, which is irrevocably important in the view of the Centre Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e435	I fully share the representative's description of the United Kingdom's importance for Norwegian students. I myself have met the British ambassador here at home in Norway to get their views on this. This was before it was decided that they were no longer part of Erasmus+, but we discussed a variety of solutions to ensure that this exchange continues. It is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that is now holding these negotiations with the United Kingdom, but the clear signal I have received from the ambassador, and I feel that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has also received from even higher authorities in the United Kingdom, is that they want to ensure the exchange we have between Norway and the United Kingdom. That's why we're now working on finding alternative solutions. It is quite fresh that the negotiations on the EU and Erasmus+ broke down, but we are going to work to find our own solutions with the United Kingdom. I can guarantee that to the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e440	The government's ambition to do that 50 pst. students are required to study abroad, and are poorly associated with measures to increase mobility among students with disabilities. Today, students with disabilities and chronic illness are significantly less likely to exchange than their fellow students. A unanimous committee believes that student mobility needs to be increased among students with planning needs. What will the Minister do to meet this requirement from the Committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e445	I believe that the decision that is the attitude of the committee is a very good illustration of how the Storting can raise important issues further in a big message, because I think this is a very timely point, which we are going to start with very quickly. So it's that right now I can't answer exactly what we're going to do, because the order is being adopted today, but this is something I've noticed, and that I share the Committee's view, namely that we have to make sure to find mechanisms that make it easier for disabled people to get out too. I also want to add that it is clear that this will be more demanding in some countries than in others, so we need to find mechanisms that capture this. The fact that we also get digital exchanges can be a contribution for some of those who may have the biggest challenges to get out, but who nevertheless want the dividends that are in exchange. I'll come back to the Storting considering how we can make it even easier to get out, because that's what the Storing has asked me to do. What a very timely point the committee unanimously proposes there.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e454	Then the cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e461	The Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV are sceptical about strengthening cooperation with the countries included in the Panorama Strategy: Brazil, India, Japan, China, Russia and South Africa. At the same time, the three batches will start up a new quota programme. These batches then ignore the fact that the quota programme was terminated because it did not meet expectations. The main conclusions of Diku’s evaluation were that the allowance scheme had a relatively strong impact on development, but in most cases in interaction with funding from other schemes, such as the Norad NUFU and the NOMA scheme. The impact on the internationalisation of higher education in Norway was limited. Furthermore, the evaluation indicated that the importance of allowances schemes for internationalisation had gradually decreased. The number of international students declined correctly in 2015, but only part of this was due to the quota programme. The quota programme included developing countries in Africa and Asia, countries in Eastern Europe and Latin America and was replaced by the Panorama Strategy and the NORPART. All countries in the Panorama strategy, except Japan, were previously part of the quota system. For the period 2013–2016, students from these countries were in fact 23 pst. of the total student mass of the quota scheme. With regard to the security policy perspective, we stress the importance of policy building on security policy leadership and framework, as mentioned in the Student Mobility Communication. NORPART facilitates cooperation with 39 countries in Africa, Asia and Latin America. Through this programme, we are more successful than before in building institutions in the south and strengthening institutional cooperation between the north and the south, which the quota programme failed to achieve. This government strengthens the NORPART programme in the state budget for 2021 by 15 million. kr., which can give more full-time scholarships from the poorest part of the world. It is important that Norway contributes by taking an additional responsibility for accepting students from the poorest countries. NORPART contributes to this. The Labour Party points out that the Panorama Strategy has not been fully discussed in view of climate impacts, while at the same time having a new quota programme for students in the global south. I therefore wonder how the Workers' Party has planned that students will land in the global south in any new quota programme. By train, maybe?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e474	When I was 18, I applied to study, and I dreamed of going to a university in the United Kingdom that had similarities with Galtvort in the Harry Potter books. Because of a little bit of poor advice and the ability to apply to Google, I ended up in a modern university from the 1960s, but it was, after all, of high quality. I got to meet a lot of exciting people, I got to acquire language skills, and it was a city and a student environment that was interesting and exploratory. It is a strength for individuals and for society that one has the opportunity to get out, especially because the societal challenges we face are global and cross borders. In this case, this big message is a very important step in that direction – where both the authorities and the educational institutions together ensure a cultural change we are totally dependent on if more people are going out. In particular, I would like to draw up the proposal for active cancellation, to reverse the burden of proof and to make students more active if they do not want to leave. Exchanges will then be given a greater natural place in studies and courses. Since we know that students who have been out once, often applying again, I have very much faith that giving more opportunities to go out in one to three months will also be a promise, and it is good that it is now to be done in the funding system. One of the biggest obstacles to getting out, according to students I talk to, is often uncertainty – related to both where they are going to live, who is responsible if something happens unexpectedly, and not least whether they get to approve the topics they have taken abroad. This message clarifies where the responsibility lies, and it ensures that students receive pre-approved topic packages that make it easier to withdraw. I believe that we have very good assumptions to succeed with a rather ambitious and hairy goal. One reason is that we have had a rather strong real growth in the budgets of the university and higher education sectors over several years, which allows it to work with internationalisation. In addition, the EEA Agreement has given us the opportunity to participate in Horizon 2020 and Erasmus+, which have not only ensured better quality and attractiveness of the Norwegian education system but also given young people increased cultural and language understanding through studies abroad. I think it's worth reflecting on when, for example. The representatives of the Central Party say that Erasmus is an excellent scheme, but at the same time they want to look at Brexit and sign us out of the EEA Agreement. Brexit has just ensured that British young people no longer have the opportunity to participate in Erasmus and go out that way. I very much agree with Mr Arnstad that the government and the Asheim Council should take initiatives towards the United Kingdom for their own arrangements, but I wonder whether there are many other parliamentarians around Europe who would say the same if Norway signed up from the EEA and from Erasmus cooperation. Hopefully, this big message will ensure that even more people get the opportunity to travel and that more people travel. I've known in my body how valuable it is, so this is an important step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e493	The Communication states that the government will come back with concrete budgetary measures via the State Educational Loan Fund to make studies in priority partner countries, i.e. the so-called Panorama countries, more attractive to students. It's in itself pretty fast and not particularly global. In the previous government budget, the government halved the travel allowance for foreign students, which ANSA points out actually helps to increase the study debt of students in priority partner countries. Therefore, since the Council of State is in the Chamber, I would like to challenge him whether the government in its last budget before the elections, i.e. in the revised national budget, will provide better financial conditions for education abroad, or whether we can expect more cuts. The representative Steffensen of the Progress Party wanted to correct me that the Progress Party is alone to propose school money for international students. They are not the sole party, because as Steffensen himself was involved in the line change, the Right proposes to introduce a study fee for students coming from outside the EEA territory and Switzerland in his programme for 2021-2025. So the right wants school money. I'm a little surprised that the Progress Party is calling for a kind of national superstructure for the award of student housing, because there are good reasons why this is done today by the interconnections, which know the local needs better than the Council of State. Finally, High Representative Emblemsvåg: The Labour Party agrees with the Christian People's Party that Norwegian higher education loses something important when there are fewer students from the global south. The previous scheme had its weaknesses, but also some strengths, so that a new and better quota programme could be developed, we believe.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e506	To the end, as far as student housing is concerned, it is at least clear to the Progress Party that we are not on a priority that ensures that we will spend billions building more student homes, which will go to the expected increase in the number of foreign students, when at the same time Norwegian students are in line for student housing. We think it's a wrong priority. Otherwise, I registered that the Council of State does not dispute the figures I have about what could be an expected increase in the number of exchange students. If that number is 14,500, that would mean that the cost will increase from today's 644 million. DKK to SEK 1.7 billion. kr – which Norway will use only for exchange students. Because we see that the cost amounts to 2 billion. kr for student housing and to SEK 1,1 billion. We have made a concrete proposal asking the government to assess the financial costs of achieving the objectives of this major communication. One would think that the other parties were interested in knowing what the objectives and wishes of this communication and the proposals we are making today cost, but it is only the Progress Party that has said that we want to have the economic impact of this big message. Here's the ambitious goal, and if they're met, it's going to cost the taxpayers, because here we hear that the Workers' Party is calling for even more measures. The Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV make concrete comments that they generally feel that it is important to pursue a policy that facilitates increased exchange, while at the same time not wanting to do anything about the preference of foreign students for student housing, while protecting the free principle of non-residents. This is going to be expensive, and even though the Right in their programme committee says that they want to impose tuition fees, they are currently running parties that absolutely do not want it. The representative, Jon Gunnes, said he hoped that even more foreign students would come to Norway. They shall not pay for the studies, and they shall have the right of priority for free student accommodation. It's a policy that the Progress Party will not be involved in, and we had at least hope that the other parties would be involved and have the economic consequences of the policy they are adopting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e518	SV called for students to risk, and I just want to say that there was an agreement to support the Student's that risk for the first time during this government. The aim of the scheme is that students who are human rights activists, who cannot complete their education in their home country, can do so here in Norway. Norway has received students on this scheme every year from 2015 to 2019, and will do so now in 2021. The reason why students did not arrive in 2020 is the coronary apathy. In October, the Minister for Foreign Affairs approved a continuation of the scheme, with continued annual admissions. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Diku have recently started the process of designing a revised scheme. The main features will be continued, but there is a clearer expectation that the students will return to their home country after they have completed their studies. The specific admission of students from Belarus is intended to be subject to the general provisions of the scheme. The aim is to have a new contract work in place before the summer of 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e525	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e542	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to 3 minutes on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time. The first speaker is Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde, since the case-speaker Kent Gudmundsen is not present.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e551	I'm going to say hello to Kent Gudmundsen, who is ill and is dealing with the rules of protection of the government. This has been a very difficult decision to make. An examination cancellation is deep within us in the Right, because we recognise the important role of the exam, both as an external quality assurance of the training required by the students, and as an additional opportunity for the students to demonstrate their knowledge. The examination also, in my opinion, has an important role in this pandemic to ensure that the municipalities and county councils keep up with training for their students until the last hour. We do not want to see such examples as we unfortunately saw last year, as there were some municipalities that had quite little training in the past weeks, and then a municipality even sent a perm notice to all its tenth graders at the end of May. But in this extraordinary year, characterized by a changing and difficult everyday life for everyone and a very uneven quality of the training our young people have received, we believe that this was a right decision to make. It has also been important to provide clarification early on to the 100,000 students and teachers who have been excited about and concerned about the conduct of the exam. Then some students are disappointed, and others are relieved, and I have great respect for that. And as I said, this has been a demanding balancing and a demanding balance, precisely because there are a lot of different considerations that need to be balanced against each other, and that require thorough, professional assessments. I don't think that those shades were emphasized by parts of the opposition when they went out quite quickly and demanded that all the exams be cancelled, even the localized ones, even before central organisations had concluded. But I am pleased that the Minister of Knowledge has been working on this for a long time and has had a good dialogue with stakeholder organisations and trade unions, not least to plan for the consequences of cancelling written central examinations. Now it's time to gather on how to conduct oral exams and other localised tests in a good way, so that the basis of assessment of this year's coal becomes as solid as they deserve. At the same time, I hope that all schools will make maximum use of the school year framework and keep education and learning pressure up. I'm glad that the Asheim State Council will look at compensatory measures to contribute to equal competition in this year's admission to higher education, and that an assessment is made of how the termination of the examination will affect the admission. But I would like to stress that this too is difficult, because different alternatives can turn out unfair, whether at macro level or at micro level. All in all, I believe we have come up with a balanced solution for a year that has been completely out of the ordinary. And then in the Right we'll do everything we can to make sure that the students still get the training they're entitled to until summer, and that of course we'll keep the college in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e568	I am also pleased that the government has finally made a good decision to cancel the exam this year. It did one last year because of the extraordinary situation that has been under the coronary apathy, and therefore it was also wise to do so this year for those students and employees in school who have a particularly extraordinary year behind them, with an exceptional state. It would not have been fair to conduct the exam in a normal way when the school is in such an abnormal and extraordinary situation. I am also pleased that the government is making that decision. Even so, I and the Workers' Party wish that we had done it earlier, closer up when one received the professional advice from the organisations. It had also given more time to both students and teachers, in a demanding everyday life in the Corona School, to prepare and spend time on what is important. That being said, there are also some positive results from the fact that the Stortinge gets this discussion today, even though the decision on the examination itself has been taken, for example. the challenge now faced by the Storting that two corona coals have not had an examination and the effects it has on the admission to higher education. It will turn out unfair on the recording of some coal. That's why I'm glad that we in the Storing today are raising the issue that extremely many people have been involved in. I agree with the representative Tybring-Gjedde that it is not necessarily easy to find a good solution to this, but I am pleased that the government now so clearly also says that this should look at and take hold of, and I hope that now has time to find good alternative models to at least be able to smooth out this injustice. One has also seen that the State Council has told the media that at the same time as the cancelled exams, one assesses other models to look at the independent assessment of the students. I hope the Council of State in its article can update the Storting a little bit on that work, and that there will not be too long an unanswered question and enough uncertainty for students and teachers about how the government wants to solve this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e581	This hasn't exactly been a normal year, so when one after last year had to cancel the written exam after two months because there were closed schools and difficult conditions, it's no wonder that one also falls on it this year. Education has been interrupted for many over longer periods, and there have also been different conditions in different parts of the country. I understand that there have been difficult balances, and that it has been difficult to weigh the different parts against each other, but I am very pleased that the government has come to cancel the written exams. Then, of course, the question arises as to the competitive situation of an applicant for higher education. There is also a problem which has been raised in the vote and in which the Committee now makes a unanimous proposal to ask the government to assess countervailing measures to contribute to equal competition. This applies primarily to the three hills that will be able to compete in the spring at the first testimonial – 2019, 2020 and 2021. It is against them that compensatory measures have to be assessed. Several things have been proposed in the debate. Some are concerned that one should have made a sort of third of the places in higher education, and others think one should erase the characters in written exams for all the three hills. It's hard for us to say on the stand what will be the best measures to balance the competitive inequality you can get, but for the centre party, it's very important that that assessment is made, and that it is done thoroughly, because I think there are a lot of young people in the coals that are affected and concerned with that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e592	SV was early outside and concluded that the only right thing in the light of the pandemic and how this school year has been for many students was to cancel the centrally given exams in the spring of 2021. The students have paid a huge price during this crisis. During the school year, there have been considerable differences in the training given to students, as municipalities and counties have been affected differently by the pandemic. Many students have had a lot of home school because of red levels, illness and quarantine. Several people have lost their education, and this is the hardest thing that students need to be in school. A classic written national exam would turn out unfortunate for students who live in areas that have had a lot of home school because of the corona. A centrally given exam, as we saw it, would turn out unfairly and also took up precious time that could be used for intensive education at the end of the school year, when the corona is hopefully on its way down into society. Announcing the exam will now provide students, teachers and schools with predictability and confidence and a message that teachers should give priority to teaching and good assessment of the position character up to the end of the school. The most important thing is that as much as possible is given the opportunity to complete and pass this unusual school year. We are now pleased that the Minister and the Government have reached the same conclusion. Now the schools, the teachers and not least the students know what they're dealing with. Now that we have achieved a fair solution for the graduates of the year, namely to cancel the exam, we need to find a fair solution for the former coal as well. Last year, the number of places of study was increased in some studies; the government must do so this year. This action will be essential at a time when more people are left out of work and education, as well as an important measure to remedy any injustice that some coals encounter. I understand very well the frustration of the coals that experience injustice, and we have to do what we can to fix this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e607	In meeting with interest groups, teachers, parents and students in Norwegian school, I have heard several times about students who have received training of variable quality during the coronary apathy. This is either because of the corona measures directly at school, or because municipalities have used the option of normal operation to a very different extent. Now it should be said that at the very beginning of the pandemic there were many who rejoiced at home and digital education. It was probably a little exciting and a little new, and many mastered it very well. But then they were also tired, just as we are rented from home offices in between. Most people have experienced ordinary and as good teaching as before covid-19, but some students have experienced different and perhaps a little weaker education in some subjects at their schools. In a situation where students have experienced a more variable educational offer than usual, normal examination completion might be problematic, and in terms of infection protection, such a scheme can also be the most sensible. We are pleased with the clear response of the Council of State on what is to be canceled by exams this spring. This was unfortunately necessary, if not desirable. Left thanks for having close dialogue with the teacher organisations, the student organisations, the parental committee and, in particular, the municipalities and the state organisation, KS. Not least, it was both reasonable and wise to spend time on this dialogue before making a decision. There was some pressure from political environments to make the decision as early as possible, but it was wise to have ice in your stomach and take in the breadth of knowledge and perception before such a serious decision was made. We believe that when you decide to cancel both a central and a local written exam for students in the spring of 2021 and a local oral exam for the 10th stage and vg3, it is wise. The left is pleased that the examination is held as usual for private and students who need exams to get a diploma. We also see that it is natural for professional and fly tests to be conducted. We think it makes sense that the students who need an exam to move on are given priority. We appreciate the clear and well-founded decisions of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e618	In an ongoing pandemic, there are many things that have not been planned. For some of us, the consequences of this have not been so profound, but for others, they have been great. If there's one thing we've agreed on across political parties, it's our concern about how our youth is. School students with digital home education at the red level have borne much of the burden of being part of an intermittently shut-down society. That's why we move gently, listen to those who are affected, and take the time when big decisions about exams are to be made. I'm glad. When deciding on the examination, there are many considerations to be taken into account. That is how to deal with the different types of examination, that is the extent to which students under the covid-19 pandemic have received very different training offers, which in turn provides a different assessment basis, it is to decide what consequences a test report will have for the possibility of entering the dream study compared to the students who have received the examination. And, last but not least, this must be weighed against the possibilities of practical implementation in the light of the interests of the protection of infectious diseases. I believe that the government is making a good decision by cancelling all the regular written, oral and practical examinations for high school students and high school students. A joint and equal written examination for all, who could not take account of the different offers given to students from training in the very special coronary year, would not have been experienced as a fair test of the students' competence and therefore felt unreasonable. I also believe that the government is making a good decision to conduct the exam for private individuals and students who need the exam in order to get a diploma. With regard to the oral examinations for the graduates, probably the Christian People's Party wanted us to cancel them, too. However, we agree that it is important that students are given the opportunity to demonstrate their competence. We also agree that local exams as an oral exam will be, to a greater extent than the written ones can be adapted to the training that the student has actually received. But we've been worried about the gold-plated testimonies these students will get, when we know that oral exams often tilt the grade. We have been concerned about high points in the take-off coals and are therefore pleased that, as the overall committee in this matter, we are asking the government to assess countervailing measures to contribute to equal competition in higher education admissions in 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e629	It's kind of nice, I think, to be the Council of State and be able to get the opposition in full contact with the issues involved. This proposal for a representative shows that there has actually been quite a consensus among politicians that there was a need to make changes in the conduct of exams this spring as well. As you know, it was decided to cancel both a central and a local written exam for students in the spring of 2021 on 8 February. It has also been decided that the local oral examination for the 10th stage and vg3 should be conducted. The examination for private and students who need an examination to receive a diploma shall be continued. Professional and fly tests shall also be conducted. It's very important that the students who need exams to move on are given priority. The students who are now getting their exams canceled are, of course, getting a diploma if they have a stand. Although there is a great deal of agreement on this approach, I would like to stress, as many people have pointed out, that it is not a simple decision. It deprives students of the opportunity to demonstrate their competence in an examination situation and thus to obtain an external assessment. Throughout the pandemic, we have had close contact with teacher and student organisations, municipalities and county municipalities. We have received professional input and recommendations from the Education Directorate that we have openly discussed with these. We've also got a lot of good input from the rest of the sector. The two main reasons behind the decision have been the protection of infectious diseases and the fact that there have been different aspects of training for students this school year. A common national and entirely equal examination is thus not a suitable or fair test of what students have learned this school year. The infectious disease situation also suggests that we have to be leading was now. Written examination is often a major event and could therefore pose a risk of spread of infection. Nor can we risk that those who have to pass the exam, such as the private players, will not get it because there are capacity challenges. It has also been a point of giving teachers and students better time and calm to prioritize the work on training towards the definition of the position. Now we are looking at how we from national teams can help to support the work on the position assessment this spring. What measures we land on is not yet clear, but we look at measures that help to support schools in the work they are already doing. I don't want to impose anything extra in the current situation, but rather to help create a good framework for and support for the further development of school assessment practices and professional cooperation. In the case of admissions to universities and colleges, there has been some attention to the fact that the average of the coal last year was higher than the previous year. It is clear that cancelling the exam may have consequences not only for those who have not had the exam, but also for former coals who will compete with students who have a completely different diploma. Last year the recording went as normal even if the exam was cancelled, and that's the same practice you've applied even earlier when it's been canceled because of a teacher's strike. It is too early to conclude whether cancelled exams this year will have something to say for the average characters, but in any case it will be perceived as unfair for individuals. I wish there was a solution that was fair to everyone, but I think that unfortunately does not exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e652	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e658	The council doesn't have so much speaking time, so first of all I'm going to give her an opportunity to maybe elaborate even a little bit more on what I asked for in my post. I noticed then a canceled exam, that the government wants another type of external assessment for students who don't get the exam. Governments know the school well, there's been a lot of speculation about what this is, and how much it is. I see what the Council of State says in its article, that even this point is not meant to be an extra work. Can the Council of State say anything more about the progress of this work, and not least when the school can expect a conclusion, so that one does not have to wait very long?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e663	Thank you for the opportunity to elaborate. We've been working on building on the practice that's already in school, and not bringing anything completely new now in a very special year. I think that would be very stupid. Many schools have very good experience working systematically to ensure quality and provide students with the opportunity to assess other people than the one they normally have. Some people already have good solutions to this, and we want them to keep going. We want to look at what we can do to strengthen that practice, and maybe to a greater extent make sure that absolutely everyone does. But I'm concerned that we're not just going to make some solutions that we're now stepping down School-Norway in a very stressed situation. For me, it's important that we have a close dialogue with the teacher's organisations in order to find a solution where they experience getting help and support to do something that they have to do anyway, instead of imposing something new on them. We've had one meeting about this and we're going to have a new one pretty fast. I expect that if something has to be communicated widely, we will come with it very soon.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e670	I thank and think it is a good and reassuring answer that one does not want any instructions, but perhaps facilitates good tools and good practice. The fact that one of us this year cancels the exam also gives us an opportunity and more time in the discussion that has taken place around a new form of exam in mathematics. It has been a fierce, and professional, debate. The new examination form has met with great protests from teachers and students, but not least from the professional community. Now we've really got an extra year, and that's why I want to challenge the Council of State a little bit. Can one now confirm, or cancel, whether a person is going to take concrete action – both the parties and the professional community – to add a new and a little more thorough and longer course in order to get a better and more inclusive way of organising the examination form?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e675	It is important that we do not throw away a crisis, but use the opportunities offered by the crisis. Obviously, some of the positive here is that we've had better time to develop a new math exam. That time we're going to spend well, and it's obvious that we need much better involvement, both of the academic community at universities, colleges and elsewhere, and of the sector: of teachers, teachers' organisations and others. So we want to add up to a fairly broad process, where we now get the opportunity to both more discussion and more experimentation and to look more concretely in which direction we think it's right that the math exam goes. We also have new exams to develop in other subjects, and I think it's important that we also learn from the experience that the sector feels that they were not well enough involved in the math exam, and that we avoid doing the same with other exams that we're going to develop.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e682	Thanks, it was also a reassuring and good response that I think the professional environments will appreciate very much. My last question is to invite the Council of State to try a little forward thinking here. As we were in the debate, we have had a very unique situation last school year. That's what we've been given this year, and there's a certain danger that part of this state of emergency will also continue into the next school year. I want to challenge the Council of State a little bit on just that. We might get into some of the same thing, that we have the same debate next year and make some of the same assessments. Can we hope that this discussion may come sooner, and that the clarification may come sooner if we are in a similar situation next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e687	We actually made an attempt to take the clarification very early. Already in October/November we decided that the examination would be carried out, but after that, the infection situation became worse than we had anticipated, and so we have to go back on that decision. I think that as long as we live with this pandemic, we also have to live with that sometimes -- that we don't get what we actually planned. But the fact that we're already starting to discuss both how we're going to put up the next school year and what kind of consequences it has for too many things – both for students' learning, for exams and for a number of other things – I think is a very good and constructive track. I hope we can spend more time on that in the future. And then we're really going to hope that we get so far in vaccination during this spring and summer that we get a more normal harvest. But normally, I'm really pretty sure it won't be, and I think it's important that both we politicians and the whole of School Norway are well prepared for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e692	After the Minister canceled the centrally awarded exams, a debate emerged because the coal that graduated in 2019 will compete against coal that escaped exams. It is a unanimous committee that asks the government to assess compensatory measures to contribute to a level playing field in higher education admissions to the autumn. What these measures should be, the Committee has entrusted the Government with. We in the SV believe that compensatory measures for this coal may be increasing the number of places to study, and that one third of the places will be allocated to young people leaving higher education in 2019. I am absolutely sure that the minister has made some thoughts about how to compensate for this particular litter. Could the minister have been a little concrete here and now and say what one has intended to do for this coal?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e701	What I can say now is that we're already doing well to make that kind of assessments. It is clear that this was among the things that made the decision to cancel the exam difficult, because it has not only consequences for the coal of the year – it is also a risk that it has consequences for more than that. Let's do the same line as last year that you didn't make any changes to the first set of quotas or things like that, and that's also the solution you've chosen before when you've been in a similar situation. But it's clear that it's going to be extra special this spring, when we have one coal that competes with two coals that don't have exams. The solutions that have been raised have been either to remove the exam for everyone, or to divide into several allowances, on which the representative was also involved. Both of these solutions will probably make us achieve something, but we can also experience that new injustices occur elsewhere. That's among the things we have to look at. I think it's way too early to conclude that this year's coal is going to get very good grades, because you're not quite sure about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e710	I was just wondering very briefly whether the Minister could say when this becomes clear, when the 2019 coal is told if they are receiving compensatory measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e715	Unfortunately, I cannot say that on the stand, but we can give notice to the committee when we have a clearer answer to that, also because of the decision taken here today. I also want to say that the solution that the representative points to, with an increase in the number of study places, we had last year. We increased the number of places of study by 4,000, and there have never been as many places of study in higher education as it was last year. But we also had a record number of applicants, which made the competition even tougher than it has been. Seeing whether it is possible to increase the number of places of study also this spring, both because of this situation and also because of the general coronary situation – that taking studies and education will be a topical choice for many of those who have been or have lost their job – I also believe that I must be among the measures we are considering, and that may be helpful to these students.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e724	No more people have asked for a line, nor have others asked for the word on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e742	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes to the President of the case, 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e749	Let me start by thanking all the parties in the Committee for a good cooperation in the matter. A majority of the Stortinget has chosen to maintain the decision of the Stortinget from the autumn of 2017 that passenger boats and ferries to sail in our World Heritage Sites should not have emissions from 2026. The decision is justified by the specific responsibility of Norway to take care of nature and the environment in the world heritage fjords. Getting world heritage implies that it is an area of universal value, and that it is unique in its kind in the world. When the Storting unanimously joined the zero emission target, it was for business and government to reach a very important, but also difficult, goal. The two World Heritage Sites of Norway, Geirangerfjorden and Nærøyfjorden, are located in the municipalities of Stranda and Aurland. The decision on zero emissions has created uncertainty and unrest in the municipalities: how will the important tourism industry be? How will the workplaces and settlements work? Sustainability can never be just about our external environment. Sustainable travel and settlement in the World Heritage Sites is as important for the Workers' Party as safeguarding our external environment. To put it on the head: if we depopulate the world heritage areas, they become single emission-free. But that's not going to happen. The Workers' Party relies on the requirement for zero emissions, but believes that the government has done too little to invest after the decision of the Stortinget in 2017 so that the tourism industry in our World Heritage Sites can become emission-free. For us, therefore, the decisions to be taken here today, for which we have received a majority, are important because they give a message to the government to invest more and to do so in close cooperation with local businesses and authorities. The tourism industry is seriously concerned about access to customers. The Storting must take it seriously. Travel life is an important industry for Norway and a long-term industry after we have stopped selling oil. Especially in Flåm, travel life has succeeded in getting local value creation out of the visitors, and the Flåmsbana is a great success. The industry employs many and provides Norway with large export revenues. In 2018, the export income from travel was 55 billion. kr. The Coronapandemy has hit the industry hard, but I am sure that little populated areas that can accommodate the world's best natural experiences are attractive to those who are going to travel in the future. But the whole community, including the tourism industry, has to deal with the requirements of lower emissions, and the cruise industry cannot live as before. Aurland and Stranda and the business community there have been and are forward to ensure low emissions in their fjords. Long before the zero-emission decision, there were plans for shore-side electricity in Flåm. The passenger boats entering the Nærøyfjord itself from Fåm, ‘Vision of the Fjords’ and ‘Future of the Fjords’ are all electric. In Geirangerfjorden, hard work is done to realize the Blue Corridor of Green Shift, where hydrogen is to be used to make nature available without damaging it. After the 2017 decision, we have received several hybrid boats in Norway in our coastal route. Such cruise boats will be able to power from the inlet to Aurland fjord, connect on shore current there and return emission-free. We've chosen to stand on the demand, and it's because it's hard, not to say impossible, to get an industry to invest in something they don't have to invest in: why should owners spend money on new technology if you don't have to? With five years left until the requirement of the World Heritage fjords comes into force, and with a massive development in low- and zero-emission technologies, why should we today say to the shipping companies that want to enter the World Heritage fjords, that we are pushing on the goal so that there are nine years ahead of us? We think that's wrong. For the Workers' Party, it makes no sense to move the calls to neighbouring ports. It doesn't mean anything to our common environment. That is why, with the proposals for decisions we have made here today, we have asked for investment in the area to ensure visits to Fåm and to Geiranger. Supporting the world heritage industry will cost, but perhaps the realization of the Geirangerfjord's blue corridor for a green shift can provide a growth impulse to bet on hydrogen boats and hydrogen production that can realize the world's greenest fjord tourism. Even such a positive decision for climate and environment as the shore-side electricity development in Flanders would be threatened if they did not have revenues from the arrival of cruise ships. We have challenged the climate and environment minister to solve that, and he has blacked the Storting that he will do so. I must come back to Gudvangen Stein and solve suggestions in a three-minute period. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e777	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e782	In this case, we're on demand. We are facing a dilemma in this matter that we are going to face more and more in the future: are we going to focus most on the challenges that part of the business is facing from having to reduce its emissions, or are we going to focus more on reducing the disadvantages of the climate, of people, of the environment and of businesses themselves and of other businesses from continuing emissions? Are we going to put the most emphasis on those who have adapted, developed new solutions and are ready to offer them, or are we going to let their investments and investments go away, to adapt to those who are unable to, will or have the opportunity to change their emissions? In this case, we're going to stick to the ambitions of zero emissions. The Ministry is working on assessing how this can be done, and in the hearing we received both assurances that it was possible, and fear that it was not possible. We welcome the cruise back to Flåm and Geiranger after today's situation, but the emissions have to go down. That is why we are stressing today that we are going to realise land-flow in, for example. Fleeing. Land power plants will mean that the zero-emission situation becomes more realistic. Hybrid solutions and battery operation can then be achieved with less battery capacity because they can recharge at the destination. In addition, charging could be done with clean energy instead of e.g. – in the worst case case – charging e.g. marine diesel engines. It provides real emission cuts and better air quality. In the case of other commercial activities, exemplified by Gudvangen Stein and their bulk cargo, we assume that a solution is to be found so that this type of activity can continue. I stress that this is the purpose of our remarks here. Although the comments of the Nutrition Committee refer only to Tier III, it is our intention to make the additional comment on both the Tier II and Tier III requirements in the Energy and Environment Committee, to which the Trade Committee has agreed. In plain terms, the mining industry must be able to continue and the transport must be able to continue at sea. We put this clear expectation on the government in this matter. It has to happen fast, because the clock ticks towards 2022. I would also like to point out the need to treat the same business equally. This is our law and our administrative principles – the same law for Loke and Tor. If there are or come to other businesses with such needs, without my knowledge of it today, they must be treated equally. We treat one company in particular, others will be able to challenge it, and succeed, it is the company that has benefited from the exemption, which will have to bear costs and consequences. Such a situation we don't want to put anyone in. Once again, the road to a certain place may be paved with such good intentions, but this mining must continue, and it must be facilitated. The objective is a voyage without climate emissions and noxious NO X emissions, and activity in the area. That means we're going to press both incentives and regulation, and we're going to make sure that the technology is put into use when it's available on commercial terms. If that development is to happen, we also depend on those who develop it and invest in it to trust us to do what we say, so that there is actually a market when the solution is developed. I would like to point out that the Norwegian supplier industry is primarily in the development of these solutions, and these requirements are a way of giving Norwegian companies a head start.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e800	I think this has become a very sad matter, which could have major consequences for many people involved. There is a shift towards lower emissions in all sectors, and many resources are used to achieve tough targets. I believe that one of the key prerequisites for success, in order to ensure that everyone participates in this work, is sometimes to dare to change their mind when one sees that one has made a mistake, or a decision has untold consequences. Because a lot of decisions are taken, and a lot of wrong decisions are made. Zero emissions for cruise boats in the World Heritage fjords by 2026 are one of these. No one in the central maritime trade unions believes that zero-emission technology is available for the major cruise boats by 2026 – none! I record that we have a large majority of people who believe that they have better expertise in the further development of fuel technology and the construction of ships than the DNV GL and the Maritime Directorate do. One would think that the most important thing in the world heritage fjords was to remove local emissions, but it is not. We have technology that could have been used to visit the fjords without local emissions, and with a combination of shore-side electricity, it could have been a good solution. Now this must not be a debate on whether one is for or against climate change, whether one is for or against technology development, for all the actors, all those involved, want demands to be made, but they must be realistic. In this context, there is also a desire to do so, for example: having differentiated port charges, so that it is in any case profitable to provide the most environmentally friendly cruise ships. There are several different ways to protect the fjords. I'm a little uncertain about what the bulk of the population is after – is it protecting the world heritage fjords, or is it that these must be sacrificed on the altar of technology development? From the coming turn of the year, Gudvangen Stein will be hit by special demands for his activity in the fjords. It is a company with a strong climate profile. If specific requirements are introduced, either mining is shut down or transport is moved to the road. It's hard to see what gain the bulk of the population here is after. But even here, the bulk of the population does not dare to ensure that this enterprise continues to operate – it still has to live in considerable uncertainty in the future. Thus, not only local and regional business and large regions are affected, but we are also increasing climate emissions. When the best is in the way of good, we're on the wrong path. I am addressing those proposals of which the Progress Parties are part.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e817	The representative of Terje Halleland has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e822	The world heritage fjords, both Nærøyfjorden and Geirangerfjorden, are an amazing part of Norwegian nature. That's why they're also some of the most popular destinations for, among other things. cruiseturists, who in an ordinary year come here to Norway in rich monn. One has also seen that it has contributed to major local ring effects, such as in the municipality of Flåm in Aurland, where a local estimate is that it may be 200 to 300 million. kr in ring effects, or in the municipality of Stranda, where one estimates that there might be as much as 130 million. kr. What we've seen under this pandemic is how the restrictions that are absolutely necessary for the protection of infection have led to the fact that cruise traffic is not as it is usually seen. Even last summer, I was in Flisnes. I looked inwardly at Storfjorden, where, in a normal situation, cruise boats both in and out. Last summer there wasn't a cruise boat to see. Therefore, it is incredibly important that we ensure that, when this industry is gradually going to get back on its feet after the corona, that one is still faced with clear demands, but that one also has a realism, so that one manages to maintain activity in Norway and ring-effects in important communities. With the requirements that are already related to emission reduction, and if one is also receiving shore-side electricity, which is planned for example in Flåm, a reduction in emissions from what they were just a few years ago can be achieved by an estimated 65-95 pst. The question is how sensible it is to have an absolute zero emission requirement in a small arm of a long fjord, for example the Near Island fjord, which is approx. 17 kilometers long, which is part of the Sognefjord, which is over 20 miles. Cruise ships may end up lying elsewhere and having emissions there instead of, for example, entering a shore power plant in Flanders. One must also look at the consequences for local entrepreneurs, such as Gudvangen Stein. Their alternative is either to shut down the operation or to transfer the transport to trailers, which is definitely not sensible for either the local environment or greenhouse gas emissions, and which is likely to lead to the cessation of the activity. We must have clear demands, but we must also have realism in what is happening. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e835	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e840	The zero emission requirement in the 2026 world heritage fjords was historic. It has long been so that the population of Geirangerfjord and other world heritage fjords have worn out with black smoke and massive pollution from cruise traffic. The decision from 2018 sets us on a new course. The decision of 2018 has also led to investments in business. There is a battery factory outside Bergen, where more than 100 mills have been invested. kr in the Corvus battery factory as a consequence of this Decision. I find it strange that the Centre Party and the Advance Party will create great uncertainty about the investments made by industry following the decision that came. It is gratifying that a large majority is still on the decision of 2018. It is also the business community that has focused on the future and on the green solutions, pleased. This is an excellent example of environmental requirements creating new technologies, new solutions and jobs. Then there has been a problem related to some other environmental requirements that are about to reduce the emissions of substances that lead to acid rain. The company Gudvangen Stein has weekly ship calls in the Near Island to transport stones. And of course, they're going to keep doing that. But there are also good environmental solutions here. Where the Progress Party and the Center Party do not see the future for just problems, at least see the solutions and opportunities. Earlier this year it became clear that the Road Cover and Green Shipping Programme signed an agreement to work out contracts for the construction of two new hydrogen-powered cargo ships. Ships shall carry asphalt, pike and gravel along the Norwegian coast. Road cover transports about a million tonnes of asphalt, pucks and gravel annually along the Norwegian coast. If they can do this with zero emissions, we should also help Godvangen Stein and other businesses to do it in the future. Therefore, SV has presented some proposals today that will help to ensure this. We can, among other things: establishing a money pool from which environmental enterprises can apply for support in order to implement these requirements. I'll bring it up to the suggestions SV is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e855	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e861	I am pleased that we have a majority in the Storting that maintains the decision on zero emissions in the 2026 World Heritage fjords. This Decision, which was first taken in 2018, is one of several important steps towards the objectives of the Paris Agreement and the objective of at least 50-55 pst. emissions cut by 2030. We have a climate crisis, and if we are to solve that crisis, we need to be offensive. We need to make stricter demands, so that Norwegian industry is world leader in green solutions, and we need to apply solutions in a whole range of areas. As several hearing bodies pointed out, there is a market to promote green solutions. It provides Norway with export opportunities, in this case in the green maritime industry, because it is not only about our obligations to contribute to the fight against catastrophic climate change but also about promoting Norwegian competitiveness. To quote NCE Maritime CleanTech: ‘The demand for release-free fjords by 2026 is an example of an ambitious policy we need more to speed up the development of release-free ships and renewable energy infrastructure.’ The discussion must be about how that decision is to be implemented, not whether it is to be implemented. We are the first generation to experience climate change, and the last to stop them. That's why we have to act now, not postpone, as a minority in this room is calling for. Zero emissions in the world heritage fjords are not only a good grip for the climate, it is also a good grip for the environment, because it is not particularly charming when there is a grey-yellow lid over the Geirangerfjord because heavy cruise ships emit exhaust between the mountain cliffs. Nor do we want poorer air quality for the inhabitants of the world heritage fjords during the season of tourism. We do not want the tourists who come to Norway to experience dirty and crowded fjords. We want people visiting us to experience the magnificent and beautiful nature that we have here in the country. The zero emission requirement in the world heritage fjords is and has always been the coin of the cruise industry. Therefore, I believe it is right that both the Business Committee and the Energy and Environment Committee, when dealing with this matter, stress that Gudvangen Stein will continue to benefit from maritime transport. I am also pleased that we are together to establish shore-side electricity in Flåm, which is planned by 2022. For us in the Left, it is important to stand by good decisions, so that we can resolve the climate crisis, provide people with a better environment in their neighbourhood and promote Norwegian forward-looking business. That's why the decision on zero emissions in the world heritage fjords by 2026 leaves us with a load and a burst. It is absolutely vital when we are to create a green future with freedom and opportunities for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e879	When we are discussing today a proposal for a representative to postpone the requirement of zero emissions in the world heritage fjords by 2030, I would like to admit that it is a demanding matter for me as a magnificent representative of the Moors and the Romsdal. In my home country lies the magnificent Geirangerfjord, which is one of the world's most visited destinations for cruise ships. Cruise tourism, in turn, generates revenues for local business in the district district of Stranda in the order of 130 million. kr per year. The introduction of the zero-emission requirement from 2026 requires a rapid conversion for both the cruideries and the local tourism industry in the world heritage fjords. On the other hand, my home has filled one of the world's most complete innovative and competitive maritime clusters. Over the decades, shipyards, ship design environments and subcontractors of locally anchored shipping companies have shown an incredible capacity for growth and conversion. However, in the last decade there have been three dramatic crises that have reduced the economic carrying capacity of the maritime cluster to the extreme: post-financial downturns, the dramatic fall in oil prices from 2014 onwards and finally the coronary apathy. It is not too strong to say that the maritime industry in More and Romesdal and the rest of the West, with the large yards as a locomotive, is very discouraging. The liabilities are huge, and there is little remaining equity to clear. The Korona crisis has created oil drought, and it will seriously hit the yards this year and next year when the order books are empty. Tens of thousands of jobs are at risk, and thus we risk that global maritime tipping skills, which are laboriously built up over decades, can crumble and wetter in a short time. Nevertheless, the government's ambitious climate policy and a strategy to implement a large-scale green shift for shipping have given the yard and maritime supplier industry hope for a new growth potential by taking a global lead in developing new, ground-breaking ship design and climate-friendly propulsion technology. In the Christian People's Party, therefore, we have chosen to attach great importance to the hearings of the maritime industry in our balances between different nutritional considerations. Heavy actors such as the Maritime Cleantech and Maritime Industry clustering programme in Norwegian Industry have strongly warned against changing the deadlines for introducing more stringent emission requirements. The maritime industries regard such policy decisions as an important incentive to the intensive work currently being done by shipyards and other maritime industries in order to develop the technology to enable the emissions targets of Norway to be achieved through the Paris Agreement. Predictability of the framework conditions is the very guarantee that this new technology will be commercialised and can generate new growth in a crisis-affected industry by contracting new, environmentally friendly vessels. It is from these considerations that we today, together with the other government parties and the Workers' Party and SV, indicate that we consider it right to maintain the objective of zero emissions for tourism and ferry transport in the 2026 World Heritage fjords.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e892	The government has asked the government to implement requirements and regulations for cruise ships and other maritime traffic in tourist fjords, as well as other appropriate instruments to ensure the phasing-in of low and zero emission solutions in shipping by 2030. This includes zero emissions for tourism ships and ferries in World Heritage fjords as soon as it can be technically implemented – by 2026 at the latest. In the government's Green Shipping Action Plan from 2019, we announce that we will follow up the Storting's call decision and come back at an appropriate time. In the recently submitted climate plan, the government confirms the objective of halving emissions from domestic shipping and fishing by 2030. The government also has a target of stimulating low- and zero-emission solutions in all categories of vessels. Cruise ships and other maritime transport in the World Heritage fjords are naturally covered by it. The mechanism for achieving the objective is varied: requirement setting, regulation of aid, loan schemes, etc. Green Maritime Program is central, so is Enova. On the basis of the call for proposals from Stortinget, the Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs is working on a report in which they looked at how technically feasible it is. He came in April 2020. It includes a report from the DNV GL, the Directorate's assessment and a recommendation. We're working on following up this. We've had a number of recording meetings with local authorities, with local businesses, with rider teams and others, and it's come out – we're told, as many people here have been – quite a gaping view in the matter. Someone thinks the zero emission requirement in 2026 in practice means that there won't be cruise ships coming into the World Heritage fjords then. Others think it's very important to stick to the requirement, and that the technology is ready and possible to implement. Norway has a special responsibility for managing our heritage – in a long-term perspective, in a resilient perspective. There are requirements when it comes to caring for people’s health, the environment and the important heritage status. They include strict requirements for emissions of NO x and SO x and prohibition of sewage emissions, and they are introduced in steps. The Directorate for Maritime Affairs has also assessed the possibility of imposing requirements on ships in other Norwegian waters. We have also received recommendations and assessments. My view is that I believe it is important that we maintain strict requirements for discharges from ships in the World Heritage fjords. At the same time, I am absolutely aware that there are some challenges here, and not just for the cruise industry. We need to take care of maritime nutrition and facilitate the use of different solutions. Some specific challenges will be identified for cargo ships and land-based industries. In this context, I have asked the Maritime Directorate to assess the challenges and assess possible temporary regulatory changes, including the consequences of any proposed changes to the current legislation. When I get those recommendations, I will of course review them and follow them up. In addition to that, I of course register and take with me the decisions that have been proposed in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e913	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e918	There has been uncertainty in the municipality of Aurland and the municipality of Stranda about what will be the consequences of the requirement for zero emissions from 2026 for housing and travel. I have mentioned in the article examples that the municipalities, port authorities and industry have been forward-looking for our common environment, and now they are afraid that all the efforts to cut emissions will be abandoned by the fact that the requirements of the World Heritage Sites can push cruise boats to neighbouring ports. After all, the World Heritage Sites stand for only 14 p.m. of Norway's cruise. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the emissions from today's cruise boats not only move a few miles away, and that this does not help our common environment at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e923	First of all, I would say that 14 pst. of the total cruise approach of two fjords is quite significant. There is a great cruise traffic in these fjords and with the also great market opportunities for those who are forward-looking and investing in new technology. But that's how I was in my post, rather shared opinions in the industry and among municipalities and the trade union community about what is realistic, what are the right deadlines. I stick to the decision the Stortinget has made, which is confirmed today, that one thinks 2026 is the right time. Then we are now working on how to follow up the technical reports we have on the table, how regulations can and should be designed, etc., and of course come back to Stortinget when we think the time is right. We obviously take seriously what is being raised by concerns, but we also take seriously the decisions taken by the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e928	Something that is not about the zero emission requirement but is about the regulation for ship traffic coming from the IMO, which is popularly known as Tier I, II, III, has been introduced earlier in the world heritage fjords than in other parts of our fjords. It hits a very important producer of stone used for the production of rock wool, Gudvangen Stein, which lies within the Near Island fjord. They have been concerned that they do not have the opportunity to purchase transport services that meet the requirements of the regulation from 1 January 2022. What action will the Council of State take — he was a little bit into it in his post — to ensure that they can use the sea route, which is the environmental route, to export their product from next January too?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e933	Thank you for the question. I think it's important to separate these things, which the representative does quite correctly. The 2026 requirement applies to greenhouse gas emissions, and it is limited from Stortinget's side to passenger traffic, while the Tier I-III requirements, such as NO x and sulphur emissions, etc., initially apply to all, but it has been introduced earlier in these fjords than other places. What I do with that is the question, and the answer to that is that I take seriously the concerns that are expressed from, among other things. land-based industry and cargo ship operations. On that basis, I have asked the Maritime Directorate now to make an assessment of possible changes to the legislation, including the consequences of it when it comes to adaptations, to see if it is possible and sensible to make changes. So it's a little early to conclude, but I definitely take the concerns seriously and also understand the commitment of many in the Storting around that case. The Directorate for Maritime Affairs will now be working out its assessment of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e943	I think the Council of State agrees with me when I say that local and regional authorities are very concerned about the local emissions occurring in their areas, both in the air and in water. I have an impression that today it is not that the majority of people are concerned about. They are more concerned that through these requirements we will achieve a technology development in maritime technology that will generate zero-emission ships in the past. Is it so that the Council of State shares the view that one can sacrifice the activity of the world heritage fjords on the altar of technology?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e948	There is no doubt that the cruise industries provide important jobs across the coast, and not least in the communities where travel life is particularly important. That's true of Nærøyfjorden, Geirangerfjorden and other places. I'm probably not fully aware of the premise that making technology demands is automatically sacrificing jobs and development. I think it's the opposite. Setting some environmental requirements here can help to promote these destinations. For example, I'm adding. Note that when we have now received zero-emission passenger boats in, among other things. Nærøjordden and Aurlandsfjord, it is actively used in marketing these as tourist destinations, so I'm probably not aware that using environmental technologies is necessarily negative, not least for a market that is increasingly occupied by resilient travel. I think developments are happening quickly – I don't just believe it, I know it – because I see all the ships that are now being ordered. But my job is to follow up the decisions Stortinget makes, and we're working on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e955	Just to clarify some misunderstandings that have flourished in the media: there are several people who have said that they are very happy that one now goes from the requirements that were previously imposed on zero emissions in 2026. In this regard, they refer to the Decision, where ‘The Government asks the Government to contribute to the implementation of measures initiated by local and regional authorities, which reduce emissions into world heritage fjords.’ Can the Council of States confirm that there is a decision on which he has no effect other than that he will follow up that previous zero emission requirements will apply from 2026?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e963	I'm a little unsure about what's really the question, but at least I understand that when it comes to the parties behind this setting, and the proposals that are about to get multiples, one of us has a clear point in the pulpit that one of my 2026 demands is important, and that it should be followed up. There are some supplementary proposals for decisions here, which a government is asked to follow up, and of course the government is to do so. Then I get to stress that we take all the professional reports seriously and work with them when we're going to work on regulatory work, etc. in the detailed legislation which must subsequently be in place. But the ambition is seen by the Storting and is also confirmed by the Storting today, as I understand it. Then, of course, I stick to it as the responsible state council.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e970	I heard that the representative of the State Council's party instead gave the impression that those who are pushing on the time horizon of the zero-emission target were supposed to be almost for a spewing out local discharges into the world heritage fjords. But locally, for example in Flanders, they work all the way focused on reducing emissions, for example. linked to the installation of a shore power plant in Flåm. Then the question is, if, for example, modern LNG ships that do not provide local emissions of NO x are connected to a shore power plant in Flåm, is it a better or worse solution than that, for example, a cruise ship, which is located further out in the Sognefjord, puts people on other vessels to enter the Nærøjord?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e980	It's very good with all emissions a capable of reducing, both local air pollution and greenhouse gas emissions. What the Storting has said is that we should make extra stringent demands on the world heritage fjords, both for the sake of the world heritage, which I believe the representative is also busy with, and not least because these are very attractive destinations, and that there is certainly a market there to develop environmental technology solutions even faster than for other destinations, and that one should then be clear about the demands of a still. I think it's really good to put the shoreline around. That's why this government has given substantial funds to, among other things. Enova, who now supports shore-streaming in a series of ports along the whole coast. That's great. It is good to bring down local air pollution, it is good to cut greenhouse gas emissions – and it is of course good to do so in Flame.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e987	I would first like to say that I am very pleased that the Council of State says so clearly that the zero emission requirement is still valid, and that he is working for it to be met. My question is related to the issue that has arisen in connection with Gudvangen Stein, and what I also mentioned in my post: Will the Council of State now, when he also receives the report from the Maritime Directorate, look at how the State can contribute in a more active way to the production of more zero-emission boats, so let that type of road deck now have plans to order two of them from the fall?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e994	We're very concerned that we should have good public tools that are targeted, that ensure that we get technology development and replace old ship models with new and more forward-looking segments by segment. Cargo is one segment where there has been a long slow passage, and where there are many who use old vessels. But now there's a lot of positive examples of things starting to turn around. It has, among other things, Green Maritime Programmes contribute significantly, and it is also possible to receive support through Enova, through the EU Innovation Fund and through other support schemes. So I mean that the toolkit is initially pretty well set up here, and the proof of that is all of the new projects that are now coming up almost every week, whether it's about biogas, hydrogen, battery or other solutions. But when that is said, of course, we are always open to good suggestions on how to get even more targeted schemes to implement the green shift, and not least the green shift on the sea, where we have particularly good intentions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1001	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1008	It is not to be overlooked that there was a great deal of attention when the size of the vessel was about two years ago for zero emission requirements for cruise ships and ferries by 2026 in the World Heritage fjords. It has a national dimension, and it has an international dimension. The question was whether this could be achieved in the fleet and in the maritime environment. It was scepticism, and that was hope, but most of all we felt a great commitment among the cluster companies, for example. Maritime Cleantech, which now had a very concrete goal to work against. There was a clear direction for what we wanted through this decision. It spread to other groups of vessels, and the Green Maritime Programme saw, after each day, the light through action plans and green approaches. The shipping association took on the clay island, and the industry saw business potential and a basis for Norway to continue to be at the forefront and to act as a green shipping nation. The pressure has persisted over these two to three years, and even though the Maritime Directorate, in an arrangement prepared at the request of KLD, expressed scepticism that it was possible to achieve the measurements for the navigable vessel categories in the World Heritage fjords, we feel that developments have accelerated, and I do not overlook the fact that this will bring new assessments in time. We must not lose the speed at this time. We must have full sails and stow course towards future and future release-free maritime fleets. We write no 2021, it's probably two years since we made the decision, and that's five years until we write 2026. We've been on a fantastic journey and an awareness of what green shipping can mean for our future jobs. But that doesn't mean we're not going to sit down to take care of all the small and big challenges we're facing along the way. We will take care of the communities that through generations have built up a business based on the nutritional basis of cruise tourism. It must be like a statement, something we do in close dialogue with the industry itself. The last thing I want to say is that in the wake of this case, we have been told that we have to tackle issues that do not go on zero emissions in the World Heritage fjords from cruise ships and ferries, but that relate to other types of industry and are concerned with the other two legislations, Tier II and Tier III. I see and hear what the Minister says on this matter, and I am confident that the Department will take the necessary steps to find good solutions to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1025	In 2005, the Near Island fjord gained heritage status. Of course it has to be compulsory. Strict environmental requirements in our heritage fjords make sense. From 1 January next year, the environmental protection requirements for NO x emissions will also be increased, and in 2026, zero emissions of CO 2 are planned to be required. Of course, the center party agrees with this. The discussion takes place when it is actually feasible for cruise ships and others, cf. the report of the Directorate for Maritime Affairs. Now it has also emerged that the NO x requirement has adverse consequences for local business. It will affect the local company Gudvangen Stein. Twice a week, ships come to Gudvangen and pick up the commodities, and these are ships that are already at sea. They have delivered raw materials to the Årdal industry and are taking crushed stone from Gudvangen on the return transport, i.e. quite environmentally friendly. Then it's the paradox we're in that one will be able to risk a massive increase in the emission of greenhouse gases from the operation at Gudvangen Stein if the raw material has to leave the world heritage area with trucks in the city. According to the company, it could be 40,000 extra trailerlass past Voss annually and 3000 tonnes extra CO 2 emissions. Now there are ten months until the new regulation, which can have these consequences, is introduced. It is extremely important to ensure that such unfortunate consequences of the regulation are corrected. The centre party is behind the proposal No. 3–5 in this setting, which points to just this, but that doesn't get multiples. This creates uncertainty for those who drive, all of whom must be able to understand, and it must be in the interest of the Storting that there must still be business activity in these areas, that industry should be able to meet its needs, and that they should have good conditions. Now I see that the Council of State has expressed itself both here and in the media that he has asked the Maritime Directorate to take a closer look at the matter and assess possible changes in the legislation, and that he will address it when that report arrives. It may be perceived as unclear. Now I see that more parties here are clear that this case should be arranged, that this should be fixed. It's very good, but it's also these parties' responsibility to sort this out when they vote down proposals that are concrete on this in the Storting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1052	Our Norwegian fjords are tracts for tourists in the country and abroad. We have a World Heritage Site with origins in Nærøyfjorden and Geiranger. But tourism will also increase climate pressure. These are vulnerable areas that we want to preserve, but it has to be done in a way that allows us to take care of and further develop the workplaces and value creation that are in the areas. Since the cruise ship cannot enter the Near Island fjord and the tourists are transported there with zero-eject boats all today, one would think the problem was solved. But for those who are not local, I would point out that the Nærøjfjord is an arm of the Aurlandsfjord, and the Aurlandsfjord is also under the umbrella of World Heritage fjord. So when the cruise ships go into Flåm, they're in a World Heritage fjord, and the demand for zero emission will apply. Flanders have sought and received support for shore-side electricity for cruise ships, and this may be up and running by 2023. Then the main challenge for the locals in Flåm, simply tossed out by the cruise ship when they add berth, will be gone. The supply of shore electricity does not come in neighbouring towns. The majority have said that the construction of shore-side electricity in Flanders should be ensured, and then the Council of State must come back with measures to ensure that the cruise traffic on Aurlandsfjord is cared for and shore-side electricity is realised. What happens if a non-let cruise ship enters the Aurlandsfjord is simply that the ship adds to another fjord, in ports without land stream. And buses take tourists to Flåm, they don't get all the way down. I would like to mention that the summer of 2020 went out in Flåm without cruise traffic, by your tourists came there in other ways, by car and bus. Flames have simply been closed down with tourism, extended the season and got ringing effects by being forward-looking and finding green solutions, and they absolutely want to get down. Thus, the decision on local involvement and anchoring is very important for the development of a cleaner fjord in the Near Island fjord. What is to be secured by the government is that the cruise ship can still enter the Aurland fjord to add berths and get shores there in the future. Then there's going to be zero slippers like today, from Flåm and into Nærøjfjord. In the summer, there are three key elements in the multi-purpose solution to secure the workplaces in Flanders, secure the value creation, establish land flows and simultaneously reduce emissions: The premise for the majority decision is to facilitate cruise tourism in the World Heritage fjords in the future as well. Mining may continue to transport goods in the spring. The local environment must be connected to the solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1077	In my first post, I was not going to get any further than to talk about the zero emission requirement. In addition, there are some other requirements already in place in the World Heritage Sites that concern this and there is a requirement for environmental safety for ships and floating structures, popularly known as Tier. The requirements come earlier in our World Heritage Sites than in our fjords, and it is of great importance to Godvangen Stein, who exports anortosite with bulk ships. Unfortunately, part of the majority comment refers to Tier III. It has been tried again by a majority of the members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which reads: ‘The majority assumes that, where necessary, derogations are granted in order to ensure the continued operation of, for example, mining activities in the area.’ This is a clear message to our climate and environment minister, and we have a clear expectation that it will be resolved, and we believe that we are assured of this today. I think it is important to recommend to both Halleland and Toppe not to continue spreading uncertainty about whether to solve the problem of Godvangen Stein. In addition, five years have elapsed until the entry into force of the zero emission requirement. The ministry tells us that they're working on it, and that they're going to find a way to implement it. What we're trying to do, with the clear, clear comments on the matter today, is to say that business and housing considerations are as heavy. You have to find the balance here. You have to find a solution and get back to Stortinget. Halleland says there must be realism in the demands. But the hearing showed that there were very divided opinions whether this requirement was right to say or not. That means that it's not easy to meet it, but if you don't make any demands, there's at least zero realism in getting them fulfilled. Tourism in our World Heritage Sites is going to change. What's going to happen after the corona is that we're going to be greener, and it's also going to be travel life. In the Near fjord, passenger boats with zero emissions are currently frequented. So to some loose suggestions in the case, the proposals no. 6 and 7. I think the hearing we had this autumn shows that adopting proposal No. 6, to introduce requirements by 2025 at the latest, without investigations and without hearings, we shall not do so. We have an excellent maritime message for treatment, and I experience that both proposal No. 6 and proposal No. 7 can hear you there. With regard to the proposal for new instruments, I think the instruments we have need more money.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1097	I want to start where the last speakers ended, and I also want to signal that we are not going to vote for the two solutions proposed by the Socialist Left Party. We experience that we have support for a cluster that has this task, we have the environmental technology system, we have Enova, we have the freight transfer system, we have Nysnø. I don't think we lack arrangements, and then we can discuss how much money the arrangements should have, as the last speaker also said. I think that is natural to do in a budgetary context, even if there is an investigation that has been proposed. It is natural to do in a budgetary context. I would really like to take this opportunity to thank you for promoting this Document 8. It has given us the opportunity to take an in-flight assessment of the continued reasonableness of the requirements and to point out that adjustments need to be made to business and animal requirements. When we do not vote in favour of any of the proposals that are in addition to the vote, it is because we feel that those proposals place a very high risk on individual businesses by proposing regulatory changes that will, in practice, discriminate against other activities. One of the proposals that was just presented, namely proposal No. 3, defines the exception to only stone – to only stone. It is clear that a company that then carries something other than stone could, for good reason, say that this is not factually discriminatory. It is not my job to elaborate or make me amuse on behalf of the proposer because of that, but it is my job to warn against the danger of that and not even go into the same trap. I cannot expose the company to process risk or economic risk in the future because I want to appear more entrepreneurial today. A majority cannot afford it. It's the minority's prerogative. I have no problem understanding the desire to help, on the contrary. I understand the good intentions, and I don't want to criticize it. On the contrary, I want to give credit for trying to find solutions for a company with major challenges ahead. I agree with that, and that's why I also want to solve the challenges in the way that has been made in terms of the comments that lie here today. I'm glad that a broad majority, which extends far beyond what we might normally see in the hall, including the Centre Party and the Advance Party, today joins in the comments and the attitude that we are going to make sure that this can continue. We're together on this. And then we can try to grow the little shades. I'd rather cultivate the consensus. That is what gives the government a clear marshalling earth and a mandate to ensure business-related activities and jobs there, from a close-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1113	Changing to lower climate pressures is crucial to setting realistic targets, but it is very important that we are able to follow up our policies, see its consequences and have dialogue with those affected. I must commend the case rapporteur, Åsunn Lyngedal, for this has been a demanding matter, on which many have been involved. There are different dilemmas that stand up to each other, but I believe that good solutions have been found that are forward-looking. I know best about Flame. They have developed a sustainable travel life over time. There goes a beautiful green train, they have limited number of cruise calls, they have now invested in charging infrastructure, and not least – in the same county, and it is home to the council too – the Brothers Aa have both developed and built the zero-emission ship that goes from Flame to Gudvangen, which is in Nærøjfjorden. It is absolutely vital that we have living settlements, and then we need an active business. The Labour Party expects the Council of State to address the challenges it is now facing in the form of decisions later today. This also applies to mining, because there is a low demand for so-called green bulk transport from and to Europe, and we must take that on board. It is effective when they have one type of transport up and one type of transport out to Europe, because it also reduces the environmental impact. Otherwise – at least when we look at what has been in Bergen’s Official Journal – this mining has really been committed to an environmental profile in the production itself. What they produce is also used in environmental isolation in Europe. But in the case of the World Heritage fjords, I have to say that I have a little hurt by Flame. It's great to have the world heritage fjords in their vicinity, but when they represent 14 pst. of the cruises, it should perhaps be expected that the rest of the cruise ports will gradually be subject to a somewhat more stringent requirement. That's how you could really put some pressure on the cruise industry – because we shouldn't end up there that those who are the most forward-looking are losing in the fight for the development of a green travel life – so that more boats call at ports in Sognefjord other than Flåm, which have been in the limelight for the work we've seen up to now. In conclusion, it is absolutely essential that we have both people and companies with us on the transition work and the changes that we now have to make. I feel that we have with the compromise we have reached in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1126	We in the Christian People's Party have noticed that both the proposers and those of the hearing bodies who are opposed to maintaining the zero emission requirement from 2026 draw a full black picture of what will then be the situation for local travel and cruise industries. One's talking about a total decay of the entire industry in the area. We think that's a very exaggerated, pessimistic representation. There is every reason to listen to heavy professional bodies who say that achieving the zero emission requirement will be difficult for the very largest cruise ships. And, of course, if all actors, both business and public authorities, get behind and do nothing, then the result could be that cruise tourism is disappearing far along the way. But fortunately, there's an incredible amount of exciting happening in the maritime sector. It is a tearing development that makes technology gradually come into place. Already today, operators in the cruise industry are deliberately betting on smaller ships of the order of 800-1 000 passengers. Maritime CleanTech is quite clear that within the deadline it will be possible to build ships that are either zero-emission or very close. Finally, I would like to speak directly to those of the business actors who had to listen to this debate, and give a little prediction of what will happen in the future. Should we approach 2026 and it turns out that it is still technically not possible to build a zero-emission vessel, and a very close to the deadline seems to have to revise the zero-emission requirement, I will guarantee one thing: no matter what government is then in power, one will never return to what was status in 2018. There will then be a revision of the zero emission requirement as close as possible to zero emissions. This means that those in the cruise industry who now choose to be ahead and bet on contracting ships with more environmentally friendly technology will win market shares. Those leaning back and betting on old-fashioned, polluting technology will lose market shares. I remember that when the 2030 climate strategy was launched, the red-green proposals were promoted by the government to impose regulations on smaller ships. We voted against that. Non-socialist industrial policy consists in setting the framework conditions and arranging the market for the rest. That's what we think we're going to do here, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1137	I noticed now that the representative of Reiten's post that there is starting to come a recognition that at some point, as it approaches 2026, it will be necessary to adjust to the absolute requirement of zero emissions in the world heritage fjords of cruise traffic. This is about how it will work in practice. Yes, we have to have clear demands, and clear demands are to drive forward new technology. It will also contribute to value creation and jobs, but one needs to have realistic requirements, which actually also work to reduce total emissions. I noticed that the representative Heggø, who was up here, wondered if the Stortinget knew the local conditions in Nærøfjorden and knew that Flåm was part of Aurlandsfjorden. I can confirm to the representative Heggø that I and the Central Party are at least doing so, but then the very question is, what is the situation of those cruise ships that are going to go into Flåm from 2026? I challenge the Council of State on that. If one has modern ships on LNG, which do not have local emissions, which can connect to a shore-side power plant that we hope to have in Flame within that time, will it be possible within the majority's decision to have zero emissions in the world heritage fjords? As I interpret the representative Heggø, she argues that it should be possible, while holding to the decision that there should be zero emissions. When it comes to Flåm, there will be one place in Sognefjord where you can connect to a land power plant, and it's just in Flåm. So if you don't have the ability to connect to it, your father is exactly the one who will have to go to other places in Sognefjord. Then one lies there, has local emissions there, and then one has to transport the tourists further either by bus or by other vessels on the sea. That's the practical consequences you have to talk about. We are all to make clearer demands, and this has already contributed to large emission reductions. It also wants a local, both in Geiranger in Stranda municipality and in Flåm in Aurland. A wish to make demands. One wants to reduce emissions, but one wants to have a realism and differentiation at the same time, so that one gets the best available technology, but at the same time so that overall emissions are reduced and important jobs and value creation are provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1148	First, a explanation of vote: SV would like to vote for Roman Numeral Decision I and Roman Numeral Decision II. There are good suggestions that we want to put ourselves behind. Then I want to add some comments to both the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Advance Party, which dig into the problems you face. But why the same batches aren't able to see the solutions that are actually on the way, and help us get speed in the development and production of those solutions, of the zero-emission boats, I don't understand. Wanting to squander around the challenges and not at the same time wanting to support the SV's proposal to get an analysis of the possibilities we have for an active state to enter and secure the deployment of zero-emission ships, which will not only cut off emissions and take care of the environment along the coast, but will also create jobs in Norway, which will create value creation in Norway, that you will not be able to see and support this, I must say amaze me. We see that the decision taken by Stortinget on zero greenhouse gas emissions for cruise traffic from 2026 has had major ring-effects along the coast. There is a focus on solutions. Solutions that provide jobs and environmental technologies along the Norwegian coast are being pursued as a result. This can also be achieved by introducing the other environmental requirements of the Animal Code. But we need a slightly more active state than it's being added up to today. We have some arrangements. They are unfortunately not good enough, and one of the things we hope the government will look at is the possibility of giving Godvang Stein or those who buy the products from Gudvangen Stein, Rockwool, the opportunity to apply for support to make strict environmental demands, so that this can be realized. There are solutions, but we have to be active and support them. It doesn't work if you're just going to dig into the problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1159	There came some statements from the pulpit that I wanted to comment on, also from comrade Haltbrecken. He lives in his world, and that's what he's supposed to do. Godvangen Stein faces great challenges. I think the calls of the current ship went down from 70 to 10 ships. If the Haltbrecken has intended to pay for upgrading, possibly zero emissions, for those boats, he would have to do so, but in my world it is a challenge. And then comes the Reiten. He takes inward what consequences this might have, but he doesn't want to take exactly that debate today, we're going to take it a little closer to 2026. The whole maritime business community says that we're not going to succeed in this. Then the riding will say it's okay, we just have to wait until we get a little closer to 2026, and we'll do that. It creates uncertainty. The technology for zero local emissions exists, and if it's important for the world heritage fjords to have little local emissions, whether it's to air or to water, I thought it was the intention of caring for our world heritage fjords. We could have LNG and combined it with biogas – but we need to build land flow in Flanders. It's not going to be used. A boat at LNG could go in there and combine it, it would have been a very good measure, but other zero-emission boats, which can't, won't be able to get in to use the shore power plant, because they don't have zero emissions. So it was said from Lyngedal that some of us create uncertainty for Godvangen Stein. I'm getting very uncertain about who's creating uncertainty here. So we are making a very concrete proposal, there are actually two proposals that deal with both business and business, and the majority are voting against. Then I'm unsure which one of us creates uncertainty. It is also said that the alternative proposals come from non-demanding representatives. Dear friend, we have some of the strictest requirements in international shipping. And this is not a requirement we're saying we're going to remove, but we want to postpone it to 2030. We have even said that the requirement could cover even more fjords.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1172	The representative Steinar Reiten has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1177	To the representative Haltbrecken, I just want to say that in the Christian People's Party we should have been asked to be beaten in hard grain with the Advance Party and the Center Party in this matter. We rely on the heaviest professional environments in Norway, which – contrary to what Halleland says – tells us that it is possible to build cruise ships in the range of 800 to 1000 passengers. That kind of cruise ship is already entering the fjords today. So based on today's knowledge, it's possible to solve this, and we're dealing with that. What I drew up was a hypothetical situation, and my message was simply: whatever it is, it is those who are now retiring and hoping that things will stay at the old, who will lose market share in this market.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1184	It is now becoming an advantage to be the case rapporteur and have an unlimited speaking time. I believe that the representative Halleland is creating a great deal of uncertainty in his last post, especially because it sounds like Gudvangen Stein is being affected by the zero-emission requirement, but it only applies to passengers and ferries. It is the rule of the Department of NO x emissions that affects Gudvangen Stein. I believe that we have been so clear in the remarks, and the minister has been so clear here today, as it is possible to have a regulation that is so neutral that it stands, because it should be. Many have been contacted by Gudvangen Stein, and we have all said, "We're going to solve this." So I hope we can leave it lying dead, because it's important for Godvangen Stein. Nor is it that all maritime environments have agreed that this is impossible. It was a very interesting hearing, and I wish Halleland had been there. There were clear contradictions in the opinions whether this was possible. Halleland may be farsighted, but so far-sighted that he knows what technology is available in five years' time, I doubt he is. There are already hybrid cruise ships that would be able to enter Flanders without emission if shore-side electricity is developed. In the Near fjord, the electrified zero-emission vessel goes. The proposals for decisions we are promoting today have been extremely important to the Workers' Party. It's because they make the balance we need between climate requirements and the demands that sustainability is about housing and business. I invite Halleland to join in and stand behind at least the decisions – I and II – made by SV. Vi ‘will contribute to the implementation of measures initiated by local and regional authorities, reducing emissions’; But not least, we say: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose measures to ensure world heritage as port of call for cruise boats after 2026, inter alia by ensuring the establishment of shore-side electricity in Flanders as planned by 2022.’ We may now send the minister and the government out on a ‘mission impossible’. If that is the case, we have actually received a response from the Minister by letter of 24 November to the Committee that he will come back – they are now looking at implementation, they are going to figure it out and come back. I agree with the representative, Mr Reiten, that now everyone has to be in the front and be in the shoes and make the most environmentally friendly alternatives to tourism in our world heritage fjords. They will be the winners in the future for many reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1208	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1213	I record that comrade Halleland still lives in the 1970s and has adopted the attitudes of industry towards environmental requirements at the time. That's too bad. The industry knows they were wrong that time. They also know that the environmental requirements that were actually introduced have given us some of the purest industries in this country. Then I would like to draw attention to a proposal that the Central Party participated in promoting in Stortinget when this matter was discussed in 2018. The proposal of the Senterpartiet was to promote, reads: ‘The government is asked to provide measures aiming at zero emissions from ships used for tourist purposes in its main tourist fjords, e.g. the 26 World Heritage fjords and the Trollfjords, from 2023." The centre batch has definitely undergone a swirling operation of dimensions. [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1225	Time's up. The representative Tom-Christer Nilsen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1233	The last one shows that there may be some challenges when it comes to negotiating government between these parties. What I wanted to say was this: some of the ships that can go and use any shore current in Flåm are already built or under construction. It's e.g. high-speed vessels constructed in such a way that they can, in principle, fully enter and re-enter their batteries only. But, as they get the capacity to charge inside Flame, they can go with full functions all the way in and all the way out. That's the difference. This means that this zero emission option can be offered with full facilities for passengers. There is an advantage for lower emissions locally, lower emissions globally, and for those to use the option.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1240	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1257	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, up to five rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time will also be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1264	Let me start by thanking the proposers for raising a very important topic. Drug addicts deserve better treatment – there is no doubt about it. Although much has been done, there remains a great job, and the drug reform that comes to treatment in Stortinget during this session will underline this. In general, I would say that I am irresistibly proud of the reform that the government has presented, and it is certainly inevitable not to get into it during this debate. Abstigmatisation of drug addicts, which, in my opinion, is the plan of action to create better conditions for this vulnerable patient group, obviously interferes with treatment provision, housing and rehabilitation. We are facing a historic paradigm shift in the Russian policy. By doing so, we put moralism, punishment, and condemnation aside and meet the addicts with help, care, and affection. In particular, there will be better and more relevant treatment for — without any doubt. Back to the proposals we are discussing here today: they point to many challenges in areas where a lot of work has already been started. The noise field has had a special escalation of over 2.4 billion. DKK over five years. The contingency plan for the drug field is based on three important bones, all of which must be equally strong: prevention, treatment and aftercare. The follow-up evaluation by Fafo shows progress, but also challenges. This is precisely why we will never finish discussing this issue until addicts get the same status in our healthcare system as other patient groups. Today’s debate is a taste on the lines of conflict and the level of willingness to change a drug policy that has been falling in Norway for 60 years. To underline this, it is enough to refer to the sad statistics on overdose deaths, where Norway is among the worst in Europe. Noise addicts will need different follow-up at different levels. Some will need close and long-term follow-up; others will need less. I put my trust in the good work of the specialist health service and the municipalities together through the ACT and FACT teams – interdisciplinary teams aimed at patients with a high need for follow-up in many different areas. Such teams we have to have more of them in place. After years of building our treatment policy on prevention and follow-up in municipalities, close cooperation with a flexible specialist healthcare service becomes important. It is good and right that people with severe mental and drug dependence are a priority patient group in the new health communities, which aim to achieve an even greater degree of collaboration between hospitals and municipalities. Eventually, I come back to the decision in the matter, in a later article.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1287	The Labour Party welcomes the Russian reform. It is time for addicts to meet with help rather than punishment. But in order for help not just to be a honorary word, we also need to be concerned with the content of the help. This is why the Labour Party has promoted this representative proposal that addicts deserve better treatment. In parallel with the legal drug reform, we believe that there should also be a treatment reform. We know, for example. that those who have been in treatment and are going back to their municipalities are particularly vulnerable. That is why we have concrete proposals to strengthen post-protection. Unfortunately, the government parties are voting them down today, but we have received clear feedback, for example. from the Rusmis users' association, RIO, that this is important, and until the Christian People's Party joined the government, they also agreed with us that this is right. Then we've taken up the somatic health. Everything is related to everything, former politicians have said. That's the way it is in the field. Better somatic health also provides better living conditions for those who are addicted to drugs. We've tried to raise LAR in our proposal. We need to strengthen the individual right to adapted follow-up for this group, and we also need to ensure that, in view of those who do not currently benefit enough from today's drug options, we are open and positive about taking new medicines, which can provide good help to more people. Then I have to say that perhaps the most important proposal is a little strange that only SV supports us in – a proposal that the drug reform must be followed by a treatment reform. The parties of government and the party of progress are voting it down. But perhaps even more disappointing is that «you, my friend» the Center Party is voting this down, while trying to free us in the media for a cooperation around the drug reform. Fortunately, there are also some points of light in the Committee's consideration of this proposal for a representative, because there seems to be a majority for two measures. The fact that people who have been in treatment and have come out of drug treatment should not return to a housing facility where active drug use is still ongoing may be crucial to the success of rehabilitation. The fact that we want to improve the funding mechanism for luck care and rehabilitation services in the drug field for those who are not currently part of the specialist healthcare service can provide better opportunities for a wider range of services, such as: in the field of medical rehabilitation. We need to strengthen prevention and follow-up, the drug reform must be successful. Unfortunately, the government parties are not interested in joining in today. But it's okay to think about it one more time, because it deserves those who now face challenges with drugs and have an acute need for help and follow-up. The reform should also be about that part. With that, I address the proposals of which the Workers' Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1302	The representative, Tellef Inge Mørland, then mentioned the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1307	First, I would like to stress the importance of the consensus that the Right, Left, Christian People's Party and the Advance Party submitted before the 2013 elections, just to implement an escalating plan for the drug field. The action plan has been added to Mr 2.4 billion. Dr, and never before have the drug field received more attention or priority than in recent years. However, I must also say that I am a little disappointed that not all municipalities think this is important and therefore have not used the increased funds or followed up the Storting decision to strengthen the drug supply. People with drug problems have laws, regulations, guidelines and guides in their backs. The main challenge is compliance. The size has for decades pointed to the lack of follow-up as the biggest failure in the system. The individual spends a lot of work and pain in his recovery and deserves a better follow-up in order to be able to live without alcohol. It is frustrating to witness the glipp zones between the state and the municipality. For this reason, the Progress Party has repeatedly put forward proposals for state funding of the whole treatment chain. It cannot be stressed enough how important it is that people who have come out of drug dependence have a place to live, have meaningful activities and are secure living. Since 2016, the House Bank has contributed more than 900 new dwellings to those with drug problems and mental disorders, and evaluation of efforts shows that the housing situation has improved over these years. The Progress Party is involved in promoting a proposal asking the government to ensure that people who have come out of active intoxication are guaranteed a housing offer where they are not placed with those who are still in active intoxication. Actually, it is amazing that it is necessary to ask the government to clarify this to the municipalities, but this is the case. We have heard countless stories about people who have worked hard to achieve the goal of abstinence, just to discover that after the end of treatment, it is the municipality that has to offer, a dwelling with others who live in active care. We have so much knowledge now that we should know that this is not how we can treat people. There are several lucky days’ care and rehabilitation places that have good results, although they are not approved in the specialist health service. Persons who want such an offer depend on their municipality being willing to take the cost. The drug-free daily institutions of this group were given a special pot of more than 60 million. kr. The institutions involved in medical diurnal rehabilitation have not received an eartag from the same pot. It is necessary to ensure more equal treatment in this area, and we are in favour of proposing it. I am referring here to the proposal by the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1324	The representative Kari Kjønaas Kjos then addressed the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1329	Today's debate is special, since the government is making its proposal for drug reform last week, which I call a decriminalisation reform and not a drug reform, because it does not deal with what we are discussing today, simply treatment and aftercare. The plan shall not cost money and there is no clear measure for better prevention either, as the Centre Party considers it. We need a drug reform based on prevention and increased treatment and aftercare. For this reason, the proposal of the Labour Party that we are debating today is both important and quite right – eight proposals that individually deal with important aspects of drug treatment that need to be strengthened and need to be strengthened. This proposal must also be seen in the context of the proposal we are going to debate on the next issue, on a strong strengthening of the response to people suffering from alcohol and mental illness. In this setting, the Central Party supports the proposal to ensure that providers of daily treatment before multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment ensure that follow-up and treatment are provided. And then we have a suggestion for LAR. We suggest that the LAR scheme be reviewed with a view to securing the individual's right to adapt to follow-up, to increase the focus on the rehabilitation component and to establish more facilities for stepping down before the LAR. When more overdose deaths occur in LAR than heroin, it is worrying, and when LAR drug overdoses occur outside the LAR scheme, it shows that LAR drug leakage is a problem. When it comes to the suggestion of drug contact, it's an understandable suggestion, but we think it's a little special to connect KS in the design of this. Many municipalities have a drug problem, while other municipalities may have a different way of securing coordination. If one meant this, it should be in the law, and there we are not today. In the case of proposal No: 6, about a treatment reform, there was actually a little bit of a problem during the presentation that made us not want to support it, so the Center Party is not as bad as it might seem, as the Labour Party said something about it from the pulpit. We have put forward a concrete proposal with ten points on prevention and treatment reform in the field of drugs. We can vote in favour of this proposal today, but we will come back to this again, and I invite the Labour Party with us to do just this. With that, I'm going to deal with what the Central Party proposal is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1348	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1353	From the point of view of the SV, we appreciate the fact that the Workers' Party, as it is here, makes constructive proposals for enhanced care. Because the SV and the Workers' Party are to govern the country from the fall of the year, I should draw attention to the fact that drugs also have a class perspective. Today’s drug policy is systematically spreading to the most disadvantaged. Rios Kenneth Arctander Johansen has shown that young people from the east of Oslo are penalised many times more than young people from the west of Oslo, despite the fact that the latter use twice as much cannabis. Young people with lower education parents are at a seven-fold higher risk of punishment than young people with higher education parents. Thus, the ineffective means of reducing drug use is leaflets that limit the possibilities for working class children to work and education. A new twin study shows that young people coming into contact with the justice sector are at risk of a future criminal racetrack. Prevention is the prevention of the criminalisation of young people. Of course, this is about growing-up conditions, living conditions and class differences. There is a difference between growing up in a relatively sheltered life in a villa on Ullern and growing up in a block apartment on Stovner. This is why prevention against alcohol is about recreational clubs, sports and organisational activities of all kinds that engage children and young people. I think we all in this room have to admit that the verbal reinforcement everyone has been talking about when it comes to leisure activities for children and young people, is not relative to the reality of the Municipality of Norway. Outdoor and living conditions differences are a major reason why children and young people are excluded and need assistance from child protection, mental health protection or care. Therefore, for a red-green government, combating children and the exclusion of young people must have a very high priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1369	I am pleased that the Stortinget shares the government's commitment to better services for people with mental health challenges and drug addiction. The government’s drug reform is an important step in the right direction. In the reform, we make it quite clear that drug dependence should be treated, not punished. Breaking down the stigmas associated with drug use and dependence will help people to be helped sooner and better. There is a broad consensus that follow-up after daily treatment is of great importance to the individual patient. The government has prioritised services for patients with drug problems and mental health problems. There is a lot of good professional work in multidisciplinary specialised treatment. The processing capacity has increased and the waiting time has been reduced. Patients with the greatest relief needs often suffer from poor cooperation between hospitals and municipalities. The Government and the KS have therefore entered into an agreement to establish 19 health communities, among others. to improve cooperation on this patient group. The government has established a national quality register in multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment. KVARUS was introduced in January 2020 and will strengthen the knowledge base on the effectiveness of drug treatment. We have good knowledge that the government's efforts have contributed to the improvement of many, but there are still challenges. Housing and work are important to succeed in the follow-up after treatment. Under this government it has become less homeless, and more have come into activity, but we are not in goal. The government will help to provide housing for more patients with drug and mental health challenges. A legislative proposal that is being consulted proposes to clarify the responsibilities of municipalities for housing social planning. It will provide better housing social services. The specialist health service and the municipalities cooperate on active outreach treatment teams using the ACT and FACT models. These teams are for patients with a high need for mental health and drug services, and they have an overall responsibility to follow up patients. The proposal re-examines the question of division of labour between specialist health services and municipalities. We have assessed this, but changing the way the funding or sharing of responsibilities between levels will not provide better services but increase the risk of cooperation and interaction challenges. Patient health care is the government's leading principle. With the establishment of a package and a health community, the basis for better success is a coherent effort for the individual patient. I have great faith in these measures and will, of course, follow closely the development and experience.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1388	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1393	I am pleased that there is a broad consensus about the issue of drug addicts who need help rather than punishment. But then the challenge is to fill help rather than punishment with a content that actually makes a difference. Then my question is: why does the Minister for Health not share the view of the Labour Party that there is also a need to lift the treatment offer at the same time? The issue of prevention and treatment is not really addressed in particular in the context of government drug reform. Could it not be wise both to reassure worried parents and to actually show the willingness to spend and invest more money in the aid offer itself, that this had been given a more central position by the government parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1398	It has a central position. I would like to remind you that the first election-lifting of these four parties, which is the basis of today's government, came in in 2013, was an escalating plan for the drug field. The escalation plan has contributed to 2.4 billion. in strengthening not least the prevention work in municipalities, but also the follow-up work in municipalities. The escalation plan has produced results. There are now 2,700 more annual works working in the municipalities on drugs and mental health. We've almost halved the number of homeless people. But I'm not satisfied with the state of things, and I look forward to the fact that when dealing with the bill on drug reform, the Storting also has a discussion about how we can further strengthen both the prevention work and ensure that those asking for help get help. It is one of the success criteria for drug reform that several of those in need receive help.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1403	I just want to stress that the escalating plan for the drug field is the Workers' Party for. We think it has good goals in it. At the same time, it's not enough in itself. I think it is a pity when we hear the Minister of Health say that because of the division of labour between the specialist health services and the municipalities, the question of integrated after-care was asked for difficult follow-up. I think a lot of addicts are losing their minds that the government didn't follow up that majority decision in the Storting. I have a question for the Minister of Health about the fact that the drug reform points out that municipalities should take on a significantly greater role in the follow-up to those taken for their own use. Is it true that the Minister of Health perceives that these municipalities are now able to provide for that follow-up, considering both financial resources and perhaps not least personnel competent to follow-up them? If not, what will the Minister of Health actually do to make sure that the municipalities are actually able to take that role?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1410	In the proposition that Stortinget has now received, the government has very clearly written that this is an additional task that the municipalities get and that will require funding from the state. But, as Mr Mørland knows, we do not promote legislative proposals. The draft appropriations for the implementation of this reform, if the Storting joins it, may be entered in the budgets as usual. If we then have the basis for implementing this reform, for example: from 1 January 2022, the appropriations for the municipalities to follow up on this must be entered in the State budget for 2022.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1415	I'm worried. It takes a lot of time to finish the rush for many of those who have been addicted to alcohol for many, many years. We need multi-disciplinary specialised drug treatment, but now it is common for the agreement between healthcare companies and the institutions that assist us to have a time limit of 12 months. SV has worked to expand it, that people can get help over 12 months. Does the government agree with SV that it should be possible to get more help even after 12 months?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1420	The short answer to that is yes. Therefore, we also have very clear indications that it needs to be assessed individually, regardless of the agreements that you have. It must also be taken into account that there are some patients who need longer-term 24-hour stay. In the package trajectory and in the health care establishments, it is necessary to ensure that cooperation with municipalities is established early in a multidisciplinaryly specialised rehabilitation process, so that one also knows in advance what can be met in the municipality in terms of both housing, activities and, in particular, follow-up to health care, and what the specialist health service can contribute even after one has been out of multi-disciplinary specialised treatment. There are those who need longer than six months and twelve months. There are many who can also get good help with more outpatient follow-up, but this does not apply to everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1427	When we talk about drug treatment, rehabilitation and aftercare, we talk about annual work in municipal health and care services and multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment, but very few talk about it. That actually applies to all of us. The 2018 User Plan Report shows that the service is the most used municipal health and care service among users with drug problems. I think it is extremely important that the Council of State is also clear. My question is: what will the government and the government do to ensure that fixed services and their role are implemented against users with drug problems and their follow-up?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1434	I totally agree with that. We see that too many people are very important – not only when you are in for treatment or afterwards, but simply through life. The decision maker can help a lot in different situations. How this is going to improve, I believe, is one of the things that we have really addressed in the policy plan for the fixed medical scheme that we have presented. It is based on an analysis that where we see that the prescribers can also contribute even more, it is precisely towards patients who have more long-term and complex disorders. That's one of the reasons why I'm very clear that the future fixed medical system is a team-based system, where you can work with other professional groups, but where you decide is the one who runs the team.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1441	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1449	I would like to comment on Mr. Mørland's posts very briefly, because I feel that our alleged disagreement in this field is somewhat exaggerated. When I read, among other things, The Labour Party's draft party programme, it is really very little that separates the government's proposal from it, and I am very pleased about that. There are therefore two proposals for decisions today which seem to have a majority – good proposals made in the best interests, but which will not receive the support of the government parties. There's two reasons for that. Firstly, it is rather premature to pick out parts of this major issue without seeing them in connection with the treatment of the drug reform proposition. Secondly, it is clear to me that the proposals are about conditions in the municipalities. They are budgetary appropriations and, in addition, follow-up and will fall, not least in the municipal sector. We know that it has been so diverse, even though the government has allocated considerable sums to this treatment group through the municipal budget, which the representative Kjønaas Kjos was also involved. We have to look at this, but today's decision is simply not good enough, to say it that way. There are many of the developments in the treatment of drug addicts that go in the right direction, and as I think we should be happy about. Housing conditions have improved for addicts. Yes, just since 2016, there have been 900 more homes for people with drug problems and mental disorders. I have closely seen how my own municipality of residence has benefited from this escalation plan. It is now important to follow up the new social housing policy strategy, ‘Everyone needs a new home — a national strategy for social housing policy 2021–2024’. We will not succeed in better drug treatment if we do not succeed in housing policy, secure living and meaningful activities. The basics must be in place. Finally, I would like to stress that it is unacceptable that people with severe mental and drug problems have 15-20 years shorter life expectancy than the rest of the population – yes, perhaps even more. It brings me back to the drug reform. That we can now get something together in the field, I'm really hoping for, not least because the largest opposition party has a proud legacy to maintain after Thorvald Stoltenberg and his daughter Nini. It is an inheritance that merges into historical milestones from the policies of Left and Odd Einar Dørum at the beginning of the last decade to the Supreme Council Decision in 2017. It is nothing more pleasing than that we get the widest possible majority behind the forthcoming reform, and after hearing the debate so far, I am relatively optimistic in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1462	Firstly, it is very nice to register the Left's interest in the Party's Party program. Then I think we ourselves, in our own party, should primarily take the role of following up and interpreting that party program. I can otherwise remind Grimstad that he should contact the first candidate for the Left in Agder, who has a completely different view from that of Grimstad. In this way, I think perhaps the approach of Grimstad is more constructive than what one sees Left-Policians some places now out in connection with the drug reform. So Grimstad thought it was too premature to pick out parts of what the Workers' Party has now proposed in this representative's proposal, that addicts deserve better treatment. I want to turn it around and say that it is overtime that the government also recognizes that the drug reform had needed a treatment part that followed the legal changes we see, and is now being treated in the Stortinget. This depends on the fact that we're actually dealing with the treatment part. I am disappointed when Grimstad points out that the will in the municipal sector is so diverse, that it should be one of the explanations that the escalation here has not been successful enough. This may be because I have been a municipal politician for many years and know the challenges you face as a municipal politician. At least there was no oil fund in the municipality of Åmli. There were tough priorities. I believe that the escalating plan for intoxication has a lot to do, but it also has a great weakness in the fact that what you mainly did from the government was actually to send good wishes with some framework appropriations. Clearly, in a challenging economic situation for municipalities, there are tough priorities. This has also been seen in the evaluation of the rehabilitation and rehabilitation plan, which poses some challenges when you spend this money in several settings to show the power of action of the government. I am convinced that the very people, most of the municipalities, have a great will and a desire to do something for this group, and then the challenge is largely how far the economic muscles stretch in that way. So I'm disappointed that the government parties are not with us in principle, namely that we need a treatment reform. One thing is that you don't go into the individual proposals, but the general idea that we now also need a treatment reform should be easy to decide, it's definitely not premature, as Grimstad was about. Finally, to the Center Party: I am happy to hear that they are now with us on that proposal – if I understood it correctly – that goes on a treatment reform. It shows that at least we have a single left-hand side of the opposition that is concerned with lifting this, in parallel with a good discussion and round of the legal elements of the drug reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1475	I think this was a nice word change with the representative of Morland, I just have to say. There's probably a treatment reform on top of what we're up in, it's quite obvious that it has to follow, and I think most people agree on that here in the hall. Yes, I have read the Party program of the Workers' Party. I am very interested in it, as opposed to a rapporteur in my constituency who had not read it when he went to debate with the Council of State last week. I think it's important. Russ reform is knowledge-based and aims at helping some of the most vulnerable in society. On the left, we are committed to correcting the effort where it is most needed, so that everyone experiences increased freedom and equal opportunities. But this is not the way society has treated people with drug problems. The system has worked against its purpose for them. They have not been seen, have not received help, and thus, of course, have not received the opportunities they deserve to create a good and free life. The long report of the Russreform Committee on 416 pages is the basis for the drug reform. It determines that punishment does not work. Penalties increase the threshold in particular in order to seek help, and both heavy drug addicts and young people who have been in a kinky situation for the first time. The latter forgets many who are involved in this reform. This is also a reform aimed specifically at young people for example. to stop recruitment. Drugs shall continue to be illegal. Now we can focus more of the police and judicial resources on the backers and those who make money on drug trafficking and ruined lives. So we're not legalizing. It's necessary to say that, even if someone claims that's what we're doing. I am pleased that many public officials are taking part in this debate, but I think that a prerequisite should be to demand backwardness. In Finnmark, we have seen an example of a lawyer and a police officer who claims that the drug law reform is about the licitisation of drugs. This creates an unfortunate climate of debate around a reform that has the ultimate aim of saving lives. One with this background has all the prerequisites for knowing the difference between decriminalisation and legalization. She should use her position to help people understand what a drug reform will mean, not to construct untruths. I warn you here and now a written question to the Minister of Justice about exactly this. In the same street, the head of the country group for health care professionals goes. She says in a debate with the Council of State that what they feel is happening is that they have been told to help young people who have problems with drugs, but at the same time they are deprived of the toolbox they have to help them. A little shocked by this claim, I have to ask: When was part of the content of the toolbox that health workers have available? Is there any example of successful treatment based on punishment? Nope.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1490	I understand that the Left needs to debate almost alone here about the drug reform, as it is the biggest thing they have had in this government, but now we are dealing with a proposal on the treatment of addicts, and I do not intend to start a debate today on the drug reform. We're going to take that when the time comes, but I'm going to say very briefly that I'm fundamentally disagreed with most of what the representative said, and I have another argument about it, which has to come to another meeting. What is interesting and worrying is that when we look at the escalation plan for the drug field, which has been referred to many times today, we have not yet read and debated the final evaluation report for it. We also need to take this into account, but I can at least see that in the Sintef report, municipal health and drug work, there has been a decline in municipalities that experience that the escalation plan has had direct consequences for their work beyond the period. But that he has had an effect, I'm also quite sure. Then we can discuss whether it has enough effect, and whether we don't need an even greater strength. I'm pretty sure of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1497	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1514	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1521	Thank you to the Center Party that is raising an important debate about a patient group that really needs our attention. Six proposals are proposed for a strong strengthening of efforts towards people with ROP disorders. About 6 500 people in Norway have mixed drug and psychiatric disorders. These need complex services. Country-wide supervision shows that more people are experiencing service failures or lack of adequate help, and there is a way to go again for a well-adapted and well-adapted assistance for people with complex needs. I'm also registering that State Council Höie shares this description of reality. Good and accessible health services are important for all, and especially for those with complex problems. For those with drug and psychiatry problems, it is important that the full range of services is linked. This is exactly why the government has introduced package sequences. This is important in order to ensure comprehensive and coherent services. Experience suggests that it is in the transition phases one is most vulnerable, for example: on printouts. This is why it is good that measures for improvements have been taken, such as: cooperation agreements. The Government and the CS have established health communities in all regions of Norway to strengthen cooperation between all actors in a region. In this work, ROP patients are a priority group. I am optimistic that we will achieve better cooperation, and that it will reduce even more of the vulnerability and uncertainty of the transition phases, so that the overall level of supply is improved. I'm recording that today there may be a majority to stop the construction of institutions in psychiatry. It's easy to think it's just good. I myself tend to think that the dwindling that has been of institutional space may not have been quite lucky, but we're also going to say that there are more in the professional environments that report that this might be going backwards into the future. A lower number of bed places does not automatically mean that the offer is getting worse. Rather, the trend towards long-term involvement of people with mental disorders in institutions is not always correct. By strengthening volunteering, lowthreshold services, self-help via user organisations, equal opportunities and follow-up at outpatient clinics or contract specialists, many receive a better offer without losing their belonging to society. It's important that we remember, because even in psychiatry, we always have to think about what kind of treatment is for the patient's very best.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1534	We are in a time when mental health protection is one of the most important things we can deal with. Even before the Corona, this was one of the major societal challenges that hit the individual hard. Such challenges are reinforced at a time when there is a lot of isolation and solitude. That's why the Workers' Party has been working hard lately to put in place a crisis package also for mental health, because this is all about saving lives. We are in a situation where Norway experiences very high suicide rates. The latest figures from 2019 are 650. And the numbers don't go down. The government promised an uplift through the golden rule, where you should bet at least as much on mental health as on somatic. They haven't fulfilled it. The Health Minister has even been angry at his own rule, or rather at the lack of follow-up to his own rule. We need to strengthen prevention, we need to strengthen school health services, and we need low-threshold mental health services that don't require a referral. But when the case-rapporteur, Mr. Beckweed, from the Christian People's Party, troubles whether it is going backwards into the future when you want to stop the decline, I totally disagree. Because we must not forget that it is also those who need a more comprehensive follow-up service than municipalities or individual sessions with psychologists can provide. Only in the last 20 years have more than 2 500 days of mental health protection posts been closed — more than 500 on the watch of this Minister of Health. The consequence of that is we've got a lot of stories about. Sandviken Hospital in Bergen told of hundreds of Corridor Asians because the alternative was worse. In Eastfold, they put patients in meeting rooms and offices. The NRK has discovered that every two days a patient in psychiatry takes his own life. Some of the reasons are, among other things, patients who want a 24-hour period but who do not receive it, or others who are pre-printed. Recently, TV 2 told the story of Morten, who was killed by the police a few hours after he was discharged from a psychiatric clinic. We have to learn from these stories. That is why I am pleased that the Workers' Party and the rest of the opposition are now providing an immediate stop in the further reduction of daily places in the psychiatry as well as the review of both printing practices and the possible need for a build-up in some places in the psychiatry. Why the government parties with a case rapporteur from the Christian People's Party are voting against these proposals and will continue the construction of daily places in psychiatry, is a mystery to me. At least I have no doubt that it is now time to take political action, so that people in their greatest crisis of life are not met with a 'Sorry, full' sign. There is no contradiction between taking care of daily places in psychiatry while working for lowthreshold health services without the need for referral. I'll bring it up with you the suggestions the Workers' Party is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1549	The representative, Tellef Inge Mørland, has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1554	Some 6,500 people in Norway have mixed drug and psychiatric disorders, and these require complex services. National supervision shows that more people are experiencing service failures or are not receiving sufficient help. After a year of a shut-down society, it's obvious for various reasons that this number will rise, which unfortunately we're already starting to recognize the contours of. When TV 2 two weeks ago asked me what I thought had to be done to meet this challenge, my immediate response to the journalist was that now we have to take a break. Now we have to take a break in closures and conversions of lucky days, and we need to get an update on the actual need. Normally, the Stortinget has respect for the professional grounds for change. But it's problematic that we're told from a professional team that there are not 24 hours' space missing, while relatives and seriously ill people tell us that it's almost impossible to get this help. We therefore propose a break in terms of changes in lucky days. The Progress Party believes that the supply of mental health needs to continue to be strengthened in general. At the same time, it is more important to show action rather than to ask for another action plan. There is a lot of evidence that today's capacity is too small, and then new places have to be created, and we have to buy more places from private operators, which the budgetary conciliation has facilitated. The third point I raised with the journalist was printing practice. There is a strong need to review drug printing practices and mental health protection. One thing is that many without special warning, against the decision maker's recommendation and without a proper order in the municipality, were discharged when the pandemic struck our country. Much of what happened then, in my eyes, was totally unacceptable and put people in danger. Over the years, I have met people or read about people and issues where printing has ended in tragedy or suicide shortly after printing. Here we have to get better. That is why the Progress Party is promoting a proposal for such a review and is pleased that this has received broad support through the Committee's work. The transitions between different parts of the service are a vulnerable point. Today’s package trajectory has a separate chapter describing the termination of treatment and information on risks and written plans, and the package trajectories provide a clear recommendation that determination and reference should be informed of suicide risks and risk assessments and any measures taken. There are clear recommendations for both primary and specialist health services on alerting and information when switching between services, and it is essential that health businesses and municipalities follow up these recommendations.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1573	This case is about the many people in Norway who are hard hit by both mental and physical suffering. That's about. 6500, and among them, there is a group of people who are often referred to as ‘blue light’, who have an extra heavy disease burden and to whom the aid often does not reach. In the draft representative we write, from an article in Stavanger Aftenblad, on ‘Siw’, which died of overdose 45 years old after a life of drug abuse, mental problems, violence, abuse and assault. She was coerced into psychiatry over 30 times, but most of the delays were short-lived, and they did not lead to changes in her situation. The history of Siw is not only tragic; there are also many who experience it – it is not a single thing. There are many people with both abstinence and mental illness who are failing by the municipal auxiliaries, entering and leaving prison, entering and leaving mental health protection, where no one takes over and takes over responsibility. They are left by the big community in a vulnerable situation, with a high risk of death. That's the situation. There is not a lack of knowledge that is the problem here, but there is a fragmented assistive device where no one has understood and takes clear responsibility – and that is not easy. However, it is doubtful that the new packaging processes, the health community and others proposed will reach this group, because it is the most difficult to reach, it is the most difficult to help. Because they don't want help, and they're not in a situation where they can understand it themselves. The State Health Authority has shown the seriousness of this in nationwide supervision in 2017 and 2018, where two out of three municipalities and eighteen out of twenty district psychiatric outpatient clinics had failed and were missing in this follow-up. It's pretty serious. There were poor surveys, there were unexplained responsibilities, missing plans and missing follow-up of housing supply and mastering to bow. It is against this background that we have put forward this proposal. We want an information and warning system to be used by the authorities with which this is done. We want a survey of dwellings and relief measures in them. We want a health warning system, especially when you're filed after attempted suicide, a clearer division of tasks and responsibilities, and a living conditions investigation. The last proposal I mentioned actually gets multiples today, and I just have to say that I am incredibly grateful for it and hope that it can be the start of a better treatment for this patient group. I'm dealing with the proposal from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1582	The representative Kjersti Toppe has drawn up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1587	It is good when both the Centre Party and the Workers' Party get involved and promote suggestions on how to strengthen the care of people. We're going to stand up for sick people with help, not punishment. The car that is relatively common in Brugata here in Oslo should not have been a police car, but a car with health workers. Bent Höie said wisely the other day: «For a long time I thought that punishment stopped people from rushing. But it's not like that. The fear of prisons and fines makes it difficult to seek help, both for drug problems and for other problems. You hesitate to ask for help for addiction if you fear that you may be punished. You may not go to the police and report a rape if you are afraid to be arrested for the use of illicit drugs.’ The government's proposals on drug reform, which we are going to consider in the committee, are therefore very important. An admirable and comprehensive effort is being made in housing, care and treatment. One thing is a few months stay at a treatment institution. It's a protected life. The big challenge comes when you are printed – often to nothing or to your old drugmates in the big city. It has been said from this pulpit infinitely many times in the last 10, 20, 30 years that we need to strengthen post-protection. We have a lot of exciting individual measures, but roughly I think it's coverage to say that the resource effort on after-sales protection has a significant undercover, and that's how it's been for many years. Representatives of all the parties represented in this room must admit that we have all failed. A central part of a new drug reform is decriminalisation and, at the same time, a significant strengthening of the auxiliaries.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1609	Sometimes it is necessary to be hospitalized. It could be because the suicidal thoughts are so strong that you need to sleep in a safe place, it could be because it's young people who hurt themselves so much that their parents scream for help, or it could be because you need help not to get even more sick. Everyone can end up in a crisis where they need professional psychological help. But this help is being built down, and it's been going on for years. Daily places in the healthcare system were 4,660 in 2010, while in 2019 they were 3,649. There's a 20 pst drop. The population is increasing, but the number of people who commit suicide is not decreasing. We cannot transfer all the processing burden to the municipalities. Too many people with mental disorders either get no help or too little help in an increasingly bureaucratic system – ten hours of treatment and goodbye, take care of yourself. Last night 245 child psychologists reported concerns about the state of Norwegian paediatric psychiatry. What does it take for the government to see the seriousness? More people and resources are promised year after year. Minister of Health Bent Höie is talking about the golden rule that remains a golden mistletoe in the horizon. Meanwhile, people are still sick. In addition, the pressure has become so high on those who work in mental health protection, that trade unions talk about specialist refugees and large amounts of sick and burned-out treatment. We need more people, and we need more 24 hours. It is harmful to the sick and harmful to society that people stay for a long time without necessary health care. We also know that being sick for a long time and not getting help is a poverty trap. Health professionals work to prevent hospitalisation, but sometimes an accommodation is nevertheless necessary. For a long time, the economy has been left over professionalism and the patient's best. We in Red are fighting for all aspects of mental health protection to be allocated to the human resources needed to provide good health care. At the same time, treatment providers shall be able to provide assistance over as long as the patient actually needs. Then it's time to give people the daily places and their health care back.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1621	Representatives point out that some patients have an additional burden of disease requiring complex services, and mention examples of how the help has not been extended. These are stories that impress us all, and we've taken several steps to prevent more people from experiencing this. Russ and mental health is a bet area for the government. A number of measures have been put in place over several years to strengthen the supply of people with ROP disorders. Through the Action Plan for the drug field, the number of annual work, capacity and competences in the municipalities has been considerably increased. The prevention of suicide in daily psychiatric wards has been one of the areas of intervention in the patient safety programme ‘In safe hands 24–7’. The period of insertion and printing is a high-risk period for suicide. This is why, among other things: printing measures, such as a crisis plan and an ‘hour in hand’, have been an important part of the package of measures. Another area of intervention has been the prevention of overdose deaths, where it is also known that there is a high risk of outsourcing from institutions or treatment interruptions. The Health Directorate is now working on two package progress modules specifically aimed at this group. These are follow-up after overdose and follow-up of ROP patients. The unemployment rate of people with ROP disorders has been greatly reduced since 2016. With a new housing social strategy, we will further reduce housing unemployment among disadvantaged people in the housing market. The government has also invested in the creation of interdisciplinary, outreach teams, so-called ACT and FACT teams. Today there are about 80 such teams, and they have very good results with reduction of coercion and fewer daily stays. The biggest benefit is that both patients and relatives prefer this follow-up. I have asked health regions, in cooperation with relevant actors, to analyse the future need for mental health and drug services. This includes both outpatient services, outpatient services and daily services. This will be an important basis for the future dimensioning of its services by the specialist healthcare service. Health enterprises are asked to establish area functions in the field of mental health protection and multi-disciplinary specialised treatment for prisoners in prison. This will provide permanent, local services in all prisons in both disciplines. In my national health and hospital plan, I am clear that the provision to users of severe and complex needs should be strengthened. Therefore, people with serious mental health and drug challenges are one of four patient groups to be prioritised. Although we've done a lot, we still have a long way to go. I will therefore follow the situation closely and, of course, make the necessary new measures as we get a much better basis to decide which measures are right to take.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1644	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1649	I am pleased that there is a broad political consensus on low-threshold bets and measures such as ACT and FACT teams, but the government and government parties seem to want to continue building up daily places in psychiatry and believe that the opposition is now going backwards into the future. It's made me think of Buddha, not because the Minister of Health looks like it, but because the Buddha finally has to make up for one grain of rice a day. I don't know if the Minister of Health has Buddha as a role model, but I really hope not that Höie and the government parties have a goal of finally getting through with one bed in psychiatry. I think that in that case would be a disaster. Is the Minister for Health satisfied with the offer given today to seriously mentally ill people? Is there no limit to how many daily places in psychiatry can be cut for the Minister of Health?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1656	If I had thought that this was just as it should have been, I would not have – in the national health and hospital plan, which the Stortinget has had to deal with – notified the major investigation work that is currently under way, precisely to give answers to the very basic question that no one has been able to answer to now, namely what is the actual need for day care in mental health in Norway, not just now, but also in the future. What we've done is we've compared ourselves to other countries. Norway continues to use more day-to-day mental health treatment than most other countries that we normally compare with. This may give an indication that we still have people with mental health challenges for a long time in an institution that could get better follow-up where they live. But to find out that question, we have started a lot of investigation work, which has not been done in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1663	It is positive that the Minister of Health is not hesitant in this matter, but has started an investigation work. But while we've been working on this matter, we've received more enquiries from people around the country because there are spaces that are now about to be laid down. It worries me that we are not sure that we have the capacity we need, while at the same time laying down spaces both in the interior and in the moor and in the valley of Rome. Perhaps the Minister for Health should have stopped those closures on his own initiative before the investigation is clear and knows more about how much is needed by those kinds of daily places. But I want to challenge the Minister of Health for those who have special challenges with the combination of drugs and mental health. Among other things, from the municipality of Vennesla in Agder, we have received alarming reports that these are sometimes people who fall between all the chairs, which the municipality is unable to follow up, who are not at home in prison, and who are unable to provide a good enough offer either. What will the Minister of Health do specifically and concretely for this group, so that we are able to follow them up better, and that they should not fall among all the chairs?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1670	First of all, we closely follow the plans to convert daily places into follow-up teams, decentralised services, outpatient services. It's not like we're building down mental health offerings. Now, the Storting, probably today, will tell you to take a break. We will follow that up, but one must be aware that the consequences of it may also be that completely necessary conversions – where one had used professionals to work out, meet children and young people where they are, so that they could go to their school, be in their class, not move away from home – are work that is then stopped. So the Storting believes that this is necessary to do right now, and I'm going to follow up, but one cannot make that kind of decisions without also being aware of the negative consequences of such a decision. To what the representative asks, the answer is to do more of what we know works, because these are patients to whom one can establish good offers, if one establishes interdisciplinary teams between municipalities and specialist health services. That's what helps the best for this group.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1677	I thank you for your answer. I understand that we, for example. does not have an unlimited number of professionals who can work in this field, that there is a restriction. But it's only a few weeks since we were in this room and representatives from both the Right and the Left claimed that the hospitals are now watering in money. We understand that it's not just both – and, at least, in the Workers' Party, we have the approach that people who need mental health care are very different, and that we've probably cut too much in 24 hours. That's why I want to challenge the Minister of Health, if that's the way hospitals now have a good economy, whether it's not possible to strengthen the prevention sides, the low threshold sides, the outpatient team? We recently had a debate on crisis packages in Stortinget, where, among other things, the Labour Party. was very concerned that we now also need a crisis package for mental health, because we see that the mental health of many has become worse under the corona. This is a time to use the resources we have, to avoid getting some after-suns that go into mental health on the day we get out of the corona. Then this is a time to also bet on lowthreshold services and stop the decline.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1684	I do not understand that these conversions are about money. This is about where it is that we provide the best possible help with the people we have in healthcare who have this competence. Yes, there is a chilling shortage, not least of specialists, psychologists and psychiatrists, who have children and young people in particular as their field of competence. The way they work, how they work with children and young people, is very crucial for how many we can help, and how well the help is done. There are no psychologists and psychiatrists and banks at the door of the BUP in Norway and want to work there if you just get a job. That's not the situation. That's the opposite of the situation. Many of the institutions we have are already lacking professionals, and there are great challenges for those who are already working there, with an extremely busy everyday life, not least now as a result of the corona. It's a big challenge that they don't have any more colleagues to share that job with.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1689	One of the proposals that do not receive multiples today is to develop an information and warning system that municipalities and hospitals can use for the most vulnerable drug addicts. This was launched in a report on overdose deaths in Oslo from 2011. Then such a system was called for, and one of the researchers from there, Thomas Clausen, who is today the leader of the Centers for Drug and Addiction Research, relaunched this proposal in the wake of Siw-saka, mentioned in the proposal. The point is to make sure that your obligations do not prevent communication that can save lives. I am of course disappointed that this has not been mentioned in the majority or debated here today, and I would like to ask the Council of State whether he does not think this is a necessary and good proposal, and whether he will continue to work on it, even if it is voted down here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1696	The purpose of that proposal I share is 100 percent, because there is a need for better and closer cooperation and better information exchange between the different parts of the services to avoid important information being lost on the road and people not getting the help they are going to have. This is a big problem. It's not sure that the solution that a point is at here is the right solution, but I'm completely open to looking at it. I don't have anything in principle against it, but the most important thing is to achieve the goal. It's one of the things we also want to do through the establishment of health communities. This is one of the priority patient groups that we're going to help one get a completely different, closer and real cooperation between specialist health services and the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1701	Thank you for your answer, which was not entirely reprehensible. We are some about the need. Now there's a big debate about the number of beds in mental health protection and all of this, but given the group of representatives that the proposal is actually about, it's often not about resources, but it's about they sneaking between our fingers, falling between all the chairs that are. In the auxiliaries, you can walk around and be afraid that they may be killed or die, and then that happens. We have to get a system that doesn't, as it happens in some of the cases, actually is the fire service that goes in and takes action in the end. I understand the answer from the government so that he will look at how to secure such a warning system. The community is okay enough, but it's a warning system.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1711	I'm concerned about the same thing as the representative. I would also like to stress that we are in the lucky situation that we now have a documented method of providing better help to these patients as this representative proposal is about. I am very concerned that we are not going into this debate with a view that this is extremely difficult, and that we have no solutions. We've been testing team-based solutions around these patients that we see offer a completely different opportunity to stay, to be able to work, to avoid daily admissions, to avoid forced treatment. Actually, the answer is that we have to do more of what works, and get both the municipalities and hospitals to prioritize this, because it makes sense both for the user and for society.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1718	The cord shift is over. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1725	I feel compelled to say a few words about the previous debate, because it was therefore about seeing the relationship between drug treatment and legal treatment. I think it is rather alarming that the representative Toppe does not see this, and that she does not see that this has to do with the ongoing debate. Everything is related to everything, as a wise prime minister once said, and it's just repeating it and chewing it for the next time. We're going to end up in the same street, because the government parties would like to see these two debates together. That is not what the proposers would want. I think that is a little sad – we could have a better debate. Early efforts are in many ways the hallmark of the Left in health and social policy. Now it's not all that can be prevented in mental health, but a good part can. I like to believe in a pretty banal hypothesis, namely that people who have it well will not rush to ruin themselves, and that people who are happy in themselves will not commit themselves to such a harmful drug behaviour that they have to resort to drug treatment. If you feel good about yourself, you don't get destructive. People who are well-being often choose to spread the good to themselves and others. Rus is the last resort and a pure survival strategy for many. Many have said that the heroin has saved their lives. Rus creates mental suffering in the same way as mental suffering for many create intoxication. It brings me to prevention and early action. We have to get families to work, and we have to work systematically against bullying and alienation, in kindergarten, school and working life. We know that the most preventive thing we can do is to create safe and lifelong relationships between people, preferably from the birth of the child. The effort in municipalities to reduce exclusion is historically good. A escalation plan has been established in the field of drug use against family violence and to strengthen the mental health of children and young people. In addition, school health services and health centres have experienced a historic escalation in recent years, covering a total of 1.4 billion. kr, and recently over 16 000 new posts have been created in the health and care sector in the municipalities. We have made action plans to reduce suicide and have worked systematically to increase the quality of child protection. There are a number of moderation schemes in kindergarten and school. The left in the government has provided generous grant schemes to benefit those who need it the most. This is a long investment that will show positive results for many years to come. But we're far from done. The economically obliging child and youth mental health escalation plan will follow us for many years to come, and the Left has expectations and will work for it to and must be set zeros behind the amounts we grant for early efforts. The question is not whether we can afford this. The answer is that we can't afford to leave it alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1742	I thought presidents would work for everyone. SV would like to have lines. The working party got three, and the centre party got two. I understand that the president comes from the Central Party and that the Central Party has said that they will not be governed by SV, but we should also have the opportunity to change lines, even if I come from the Center Party. [[muttering in the hall]] SV has been working to stop the reduction of daily places in mental health protection. Finally, we will have a majority with the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Centre Party. Hurray! We had a mental health crisis before the pandemic hit Norway. Now it's even worse. I'm glad we got a majority for a mental health crisis package this week, but I'm disappointed in the scope. But more resources are better than nothing. The National Centre for the Competence of Experience in Mental Health states that 92 pst. treatment of the population has ended prematurely at least once. SV is given a majority for a review of outreach practices in the field of drugs and mental health protection. Then I hope the other parties understand the seriousness. We don't just have to stop laying down bed places – we have to build up the auxiliary equipment. The government has encroached on the golden rule that mental health protection should be strengthened. We haven't heard about this from the government in many years since people understood it was a ball game. Psychiatric health protection has not been prioritised during this government. But today we have a majority to review capacity and need to increase daily capacity in line with the need.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1753	The President will inform the representative that we are trying to divide lines by size. Often the Center Party and SV get each other, and sometimes someone gets another. That's how it smooths out.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1758	The council says it's not about divorce. I'm a little bit uncertain about it. The Council of State also says that there is a shortage of professionals in the institutions. What about the municipalities? It's probably good intentions, and the health community is at the start. But we have an interaction reform ahead of it. This must lead to assistance for those in need where expertise and professionals are involved. I want to give an example: it's a patient who's suicidal, who is sent back to a municipality that doesn't have a device to take care of that patient in any way. It's so-called 2-1. The solution is to buy a private service that costs about NOK 300,000 a month in another state, that is, far from where the patient comes from. And then actually, patient number two comes in the same municipality. The health service is fully aware that the municipality does not have any professional or expertise to deal with such cases. They print the patient to the same municipality and ask the municipality to buy private services, as they did last time. Then you can wonder: is there a health community that will require municipalities to buy private services, instead of getting the help they need from the health care company? Then we can wonder if there's not the famous trusted patients will do this between, but the beds.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1765	I got a little time in the first article. I would like to make it clear that I am pleased that a joint committee in Stortinget is behind us getting a life-care survey for people with serious disorders and mental disorders. I expect that it will be prioritised, and that we will get a case back to Stortinget where we can go into this problem again. I'm disappointed that we don't get multiples for such a warning system, which is called from those who work in this field. I think it could have scared lives, and that's what this thing is about. When the Health Minister in the row says that we should be careful not to make this too difficult, I agree with that, because it is in a way the most trivial we fail, and we have to do more of the simple that works. At the same time, it's been like this every year that we haven't made it clear, we haven't protected these people, and many have actually died. We know that the supervision from the Health Inspectorate shows that even today there is not a system for this in two of three municipalities. 18 out of 20 DPS also had a serious lack of supply for these, so it's urgent to do something more concrete than to pass it on as one do in all other areas. This is a special, marginalized group, those with mental and drug problems at the same time, and they require a very special attention both from us and from the service provider. We also have a proposal, on which the Central Party stands on its own, which deals with what is in today's law on detention by coercion for up to three months in its own day-care facility if a person is about to rush in such a way that life and health are put at critical risk. The fact that some municipalities don't know if or don't have the practice of using this, I also believe that life has been lost, but I record that we are alone that this possibility must be clarified to the municipalities. It's also disappointing that we don't get multiple numbers for this by looking at a housing mapping. There are many things in the media that show that it had to be. So to what has led to a big debate here, there are multiples to stop the building of daily places in mental health protection. This is, of course, the center party very much for. We are making this a proposal in the State budget for 2014. Well, that's a lot of years ago, and then we were kind of dealing with it, but now we're going to have multiples. I'm very sure, strictly professionally, that the degradation that has occurred has now gone too far, and now we have to stop and in the long run increase our capacity again. It's about adult psychiatry, but it's also about child and youth psychiatry.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1780	I thank you for these two debates – I think there is reason to say so. I would like to sum up that we are now faced with a historical shift – a paradigm shift, as I said in a previous article – in the treatment of drugs and psychiatry in this country. We've taken seven-mile steps in a relatively short time – I think everyone can agree on that – and we need to look back, look in the mirror and look at what has happened in the last 20 years. That's amazing. One of the benefits of having lived for a while is that I remember people being chased around this town, from Mount Nisse to the Skippergate to Plata to Brugata, how they've been dogged, and how they've been stopped on the street and searched in the open. It's been a terrible sight. Now we're in front of a whole new shift. Once just before the turn of the century, Ola Elvestuen, Oslo City Council, spoke about heroin-assisted treatment. People thought he was crazy. Now it happens, now we understand that this is important. I am pleased to note that the majority in this Chamber are on hand with the future in the treatment of drug addicts in this country, that we believe that there are opportunities to create a good life for those who – as it is called – sit at the bottom of the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1787	The representative Kjersti Top has the word twice before and gets the word to a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1792	I take the word because I said wrong in the previous article. I said that the first time the Senterpartiet put forward proposals to stop the reduction of bed capacity in mental health protection, was in 2014, but it was in the state budget for 2015. At least it'll be right. Once again, there is a debate about all the drugs policy, and that is how it will be. I had a keen wish that one should have the attention of the most marginalized, the ones that are most difficult to reach, and that get the most dramatic consequences when society can't have a network around them. My commitment goes back to my first doctor's job in Bergen, at the medical guard, in the ambulance. I've seen these people, I've been working with them, and it's the same thing now as it was that time. If they have both a disorder and a mental illness, there is not a device around them to accept and follow them up. It's high time we did something about it, and I hope we can do it in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1799	I have just a brief comment: I have recorded that both of the debates we have had so far have been a small taste in a much larger debate we are going to have in the Stortingen linked to the drug reform. There the Christian People's Party has signaled that we are going to support the reform, but we hope that the Storting will make some changes, especially with regard to children and young people, the prevention work, having a comprehensive treatment offer for young people who are developing a problematic relationship with drugs. Some of those things have to be in place. Now there's a debate related to ROP patients, a very vulnerable group, and I'm very happy that the Central Party has raised this proposal to focus on them. This is, as has been said by several, patients falling between several chairs. I would like to remind you of what Kjersti Toppe pointed to in his first post, namely all those who are not even asking for help, who are unable to ask for help, which is difficult for the helper to reach. I hope that both the ACT and FACT teams can be involved in making a difference there, because that's where we're really talking about a vulnerable group. So I referred to a professional community that is not entirely positive about stopping all the change and structural change within what has to do with luck in the psychiatry, which sees the value of the treatment being done close to where the patient lives. I think it's right to point that out, because this is also part of the professional environment that we should listen to, which is in a completely unique competence. I am pleased that we have had this debate. I record that we have had a small taste in a much larger debate that we will have later this spring. But this one debate we've had now is about ROP patients, a very vulnerable group.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1811	I record that both Beckeword and Grimstad end up in a bit of a rush reform in this matter as well. Russ reform is important, but it is also incredibly important that the drug reform does not drown all the other aspects of the groups we are talking about here, which have complex challenges in terms of drug addiction and mental health. In that way the reminder from Toppe in her last post was in place. I didn't really realize to get some very good answer from Höie in the lineword shift: what do we do with those who have complex drug and mental disorders? In any case, in Agder, there are municipalities that are calling out high warnings, because they are unable to follow up these patients, these people in a good enough way. It is not a matter of a lack of will, but it is a matter of simply not having the toolbox completely out in the municipalities to take care of some of the most vulnerable in the country. Today, it appears to be a majority for a proposal to review the capacity of psychiatry and look at the needs there. I hope that the Minister of Health, in the extension of any such mission from the Stortinget, will look voluntarily at whether it can also mean going through and seeing if we can find better solutions for those who are struggling with both drug and psychiatry challenges, who do not fit into prisons, which the municipalities are not following well enough today, and for which the psychiatry may not have well adapted the offer either. Because it is clear that if there are not so many people involved, it is incredibly important that they too receive an offer that is adapted. So you can think that the number of people is not so large, but the number that is affected by the fact that they don't get a good enough offer is quite significant. Because we have relatives, family, friends and also the community that know about the challenges in some cases, that people who don't get a follow-up that's good enough, with the health consequences it has for them, and that sometimes, in some cases, it also goes beyond and challenges the quality of life of those who are around. This is a group that the Central Party, really very positive, has today put on the agenda, and which I hope the Minister of Health will follow up on the extension of the orders that Stortinget is likely to end up giving this afternoon, when we are going to vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1828	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1845	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1852	I have to admit that there has been a mistake here. I have forgotten that I am the case rapporteur and have made arrangements for others to take the floor, so on behalf of the committee I will only recommend the committee's recommendation on the matter, and then I expect that the various will present their views.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1857	Now, it might seem like a winter break is good for everyone, because there's been a bit of each one in the room today, even before this president came in – we've got new state councils, we've got party changers and now we've also got a case rapporteur who forgot. To the matter of steam equipment: it was a matter that met us all, I think, when it came in the autumn, with people – whether adults or children – who did not get the help they needed. It was especially the case of little Daniel who probably affected us all. Then we see in this case that the government parties and the Progress Party refer to the matter being resolved by Helfo changing the number limits and going back on it. The problem is that you didn't go back on everything, but on parts of the equipment that people depend on. It's a little strange, I think, when you've come to the conclusion that what you did was wrong – here are people who are hit by a number limit, which means that you can't live your life the way you want, that you might have concerns about getting a leak when you're going to work – that there are other products that have to be restricted. I think it's important that we add up that people can continue to live a good and full life, that they can participate in work and study without worries, even if they have had to perform a stoma operation. Therefore, it is still relevant to propose to remove the number limit that affected all these products. I really just hoped that we could stand together about it – that when you go back on it, not just go back on something, but that you actually clean everything up. I'm making it so simple – and I'm taking up the suggestions that the Workers' Party is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1870	The representative Tuva Moflag has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1875	The background to this case is that last year the number of restrictions were introduced into the bladder prescription system for some types of auxiliary material in case of stome. Following feedback from several teams, the changes were evaluated and the restrictions on some product groups were removed as early as 1 November last year. So the theme in this case is the number limit for belts and clips for patients with stems, since these were retained by Helfo. Helfo’s assessment was that the rate was not set too low, among other things. because these are products that can be used several times. Good governance of all public schemes is important. It also applies to medical devices. We have to ask how detailed the Storing and the Government are going to go into these schemes. Especially within the blue prescription, there are very many diseases for which coverage is provided. It is mostly on the pharmaceutical side, but also medical consumables. As far as I remember, there are 14 different states that provide access to medical consumables through the blue prescription system. We get a tough situation if all the changes are to be consulted. That's one of the reasons why we, Stortinget, a few years ago removed the 5 million de minimis threshold. kr and introduced a limit of power of 100 million. kr for medicinal products on a blue prescription. It was simply not manageable that the Stortinget should go in and make decisions to introduce a number of new medicines, as it was until Bent Höie became Minister of Health. We must ensure that aid schemes, including blue prescriptions, are non-discriminatory. The treatment for a number of disorders and medical products used is constantly evolving and, therefore, up-to-date legislation is important. Cleaning up the legislation doesn't mean it's going to be free. There are actually quantity limits on a number of products. All medicines on blue prescription, almost without exception, there are number limits on, and for a good reason. As it sounds on the Workers' Party, you just have to let it shriek, but we have to have some control over these things because it's our common resources that are used for good schemes that apply to all of them. We are concerned that everyone should receive good follow-up, that everyone should receive good guidance on proper use, and that of course also applies to stomi patients. Proper use of the aids used is a prerequisite for good treatment and the highest possible quality of life. So we agree that it was right to turn around in the things where it was turned around, from Helfo's side. The majority of the Committee, the Government Parties and the Advance Party indicate that both professionals and user representatives have been included in further work to look at the number of restrictions where they belong. We therefore believe that the proposal we are now considering is already under way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1890	This is a matter that might look tough, but it's important to many, and it's basically. The background is that on 1 January last year, Helfo introduced some changes to the legislation on social security for medical consumables in the blue recipe system. Helfo has now gone back on some of it, but there are still some of these changes, and there are changes that have been criticised by user organisations. I might agree that we should be careful to go in and regulate in detail from Stortinget's side, but to defend what we have to do today, this case has a history. The government has introduced several years in a row cut into the state budget that has framed this group quite hard. Some of it has been adjusted, but history shows that there have been some cuts out here that have not been well enough anchored. Maybe it's been done first and foremost to save money. We can't keep doing that. At least we in the Center Party mean it. Therefore, these proposals are necessary today. One is to ensure that all the set limits introduced on 1 January 2020 are lifted. Equally important is proposal No. 2, which requires an assessment of changing the practice in the case of changes to the prescription, so that changes affecting patients’ access to equipment and medicine are done by a change of regulation rather than by a circular. This doesn't mean that everything is going through regulation, only the major changes proposed. I think it would be a strength for the authorities if the restrictions were clarified and discussed with the user groups in advance. So to proposal No. 3, ensuring that all stomi-operatives receive the necessary follow-up, guidance and information. No provisions are being made today. We received clear feedback on this in the hearing of this case, and I think we should be able to do that. This is a patient group that has a disease that is highly taboo. It is not that easy to stand by, and then you have to make sure that it is a better system than today for this user group.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1905	We need to remove the unworthy and artificial constraints on steam equipment. The government and the Health Directorate have placed many restrictions on stoma equipment. Daniel’s parents had to pay thousands of dollars a month for Daniel to play with the other children and jump on the trampoline. Following large protests from user groups, Helfo decided in October 2020 to remove the number restrictions on thickeners, adhesive strips in sprays and plate extensions. However, the restrictions on the belt and the clip were retained. This government has hit a chronicle group with diagnosis and disability that is largely taboo. Now the matter is a little out of the media picture, and the government parties and the Progress Party have said that they want to keep the restrictions on belts and clippings. I don't understand why these parties are opposed to removing these constraints. Do they think those who have stutter will take more than they need and sell it on the black steam market? Do they think that a stomi patient with hoods and maybe a knife twirling around the street to sell stumbs and clippings? These restrictions harm one of the vulnerable groups we have in Norway. The government has tried to push responsibility over to Helfo, which is a government agency, and say that it is not the government's fault. In this case, it becomes very clear who is responsible for this. If the Government Parties and the Support Party vote in favour of the SV's proposal, all those who need this necessary equipment will receive it. If these lots vote against, the persons will not receive the equipment they need. Now it is the responsibility of these parties: Will they help the vulnerable – or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1920	Helfo introduced on 1 January 2020 a number of restrictions for some types of auxiliary material in case of stoma covered by the BIP. Helfo was already evaluating these changes in the autumn of 2020, following feedback from patient organisations and professionals. As is known, for some product groups, the number limit was lifted from 1 November last year. The limits on belts and clasps were retained since Helfo considered that the roof was not set too low. These are products that can be used several times. For one belt type, conditions were also removed in January 2020 that the patient must have developed a parastomal brocket in order to obtain reimbursement so that more patients could receive these products. Users who have had outlays between 1 January and 1 November 2020 as a result of the number limit may receive reimbursement of the outlay if they submit the necessary documentation to Helfo. According to Helfo, very few have applied for this. I am pleased that Helfo lifted changes that proved to have unintended consequences for some users. I state that the changes were introduced by Helfo as part of their active management of the area, in order to ensure proper use and good cost control. The blue prescription contains a list of 14 different conditions in which medical consumables costs are covered. Products and current conditions are listed in circulars and product and price lists. If all product groups and conditions of this legislation were to be regulated and all changes were to be consulted, it would be a very heavy and low dynamic system. At the same time, it is important that we have good legislation that ensures equivalent treatment for patients. We are now reviewing the legislation on the social welfare of the public at large for medical consumables and foodstuffs. One aim of this work is to implement principles of priority also for these product groups — in line with those covered by the BIP. I am concerned that patients with stoma get good follow-up and guidance on the correct use and choice of stoma products, so that they can master their everyday life with the condition best possible and use the equipment properly. I feel that all the actors share this goal, and that they cooperate well. Among other things, the Stoma and Continent Care Professional Group has recently come up with a knowledge-based guide to help health care professionals guide and follow-up of stomic surgery.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1935	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1940	On 13 October, the Council of State said that he asked Helfo to review these restrictions. It is the Council of State that has the responsibility and the power to look at these arrangements again. The right-wing parties, the Advance Party and the State Council in reply to the case will not remove the restrictions on belts and clippings. Why does the government want to keep the restrictions on belts and clippings?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1948	It is absolutely right that I asked Helfo to look at this again. It also turned out that Helfo himself, on the basis of the recordings they had received from the users, was looking at the decision they had made in January in this area. But even if I ask them to look at it again, that doesn't mean I'm taking a position on the kind of questions that the representative Wilkinson is now asking. This is part of the job that Helfo does, and I understand that in this context they have had a good cooperation with user organisations about. This means that they have now adjusted this and also given the opportunity for those who may have been refused in the other areas to get money back. There are quite a few people who have applied for it, but it is important for the few who have had that opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1953	The council has the power to ask Helfo again to look at these constraints. Will the Council of State ask Helfo to look at this, to remove the restrictions on belts and clippings?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1958	I feel that Helfo has done so and believe that there are no restrictions on the number of the kind of negative consequences that some of the other changes had, and in which they have corrected.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1963	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1982	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e1989	This is a matter relating to a public complaint and compensation scheme for trans-persons who have undergone irreversible sterilisation. In this case, more representatives of the Socialist Left are promoting three concrete proposals. The Committee has conducted a written hearing on the matter, in which 24 hearings were held. For this representative it has made a strong impression to read some of the recordings. In particular, this consultation call from private individuals, where some were also sent anonymously. I am therefore pleased that a unanimous committee recognises that people who have wanted to change legal gender have met discrimination and sometimes also harassment and violence. Regardless of what one might think of the specific proposals in the case, it is important to recognise this. No one in Norway shall experience discrimination, stigma or harassment on the basis of their orientation, sex or gender. In addition to the hearings, State Councillor Bent Höie has also delivered an opinion on the proposals, on 6 November 2020. In addition to the three proposals from SV in the case, three proposals have been made during the committee procedure, two from the Labour Party and one from the Progress Party. The undersigned expects the respective proposers and parties to refer and address the proposals in the course of the debate. The recommendation concludes that the Committee’s recommendation, the proposal that those who have had to undergo irreversible sterilisation interventions in the context of gender change, are given a wide majority within the current general compensation schemes. No other proposals have received a majority in the vote. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter. Then I come back to the pulpit to refer to the Right's view of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2002	It is a very important matter we are debating today. Let there be no doubt that the Labour Party wishes to assess the third gender in Norway. This has been our policy for many years, and we are committed to respecting those people who do not feel at home in a ‘he’ or a ‘she’. An assessment, an investigation, would give us answers to many important things and decide how we might arrange this. The government doesn't want that, and I think it's sad. Nevertheless, we are promoting proposals on this today, precisely because it is our policy. A journalist called me yesterday and asked if the Workers' Party was in favour of the government's rejection, or if we were in favour of SV's proposal. My answer to that is that we are in favour of the Labour Party's policy on this, i.e. an assessment. It is clear that those who were forcibly sterilised before the amendment of the law in 2016 and were subject to medical diagnosis are discriminated against. I can't find any stronger words than that for the wrong they're in. The Workers' Party and I also believe that those who believe they are exposed to this injustice must seek compensation through the arrangements that exist today. We will follow up on how they are treated, and follow up on whether we see that the law is not clear enough. But let there be no doubt: it is bad to think about what injustice we have shown many in their struggle for freedom for their own body. I refer to our proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2013	The representative Hege Haukeland Liadal has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2018	I note that the majority proposes that the government should ensure that those who have had to undergo irreversible sterilisation interventions in the context of gender change are thoroughly addressed in the current general compensation schemes. The Progress Party does not support this proposal, since the justice system is the Stortinge’s own system, and according to the Minister of Justice, the government cannot believe anything about how the work of that committee is to be carried out. But it is also true that we believe it has been important and proper to give people with sexual sinongruen an offer, both before and after the new law came into force. With his 21 years of experience, Harry Benjamin Resource Center has a unique knowledge of this patient group. Several in this organisation have had their own experience in the treatment since the 1980s. Too many of them have met, treatment has been existing and very important, with both hormonal and surgical treatment. It has been essential to have the body corrected as well as possible, in order to be able to live completely as the sex one fundamentally feels like. They say that describing these people as having been assaulted is very problematic. Many of them have been in contact with it is particularly difficult for the treatment they have experienced to be compared to an assault. Martin has spent most of his life being allowed to live as a man, we could read on NRK's website on February 20th. Martin tells about many difficult years on the way from looking like a little girl to becoming an adult man. In order to receive treatment, careful studies are needed. More people tell about a heavy process and that they don't feel thought. You have to prove that you're trans enough to get treatment, says Martin. I know several people who have experienced the same thing as Martin, and those who have complained over the years about the offer at the Rikshospitalet, have never complained that they have felt the pressure, rather the opposite. What they have complained about is the extremely demanding process it has been to convince the hospital that this is what they really want. We are therefore not ready to pass a judgment on the job that the Rikshospitalet has been doing for many, many years. It's almost five years since the law came into force. The party of progress supported the law and is still behind it. At the same time, there are allegations of unintended consequences, which also occurred at a hearing of the Justice Committee last autumn. The Progress Party feels it is unfortunate that such claims are allowed to live their own lives, and believes that all parties had been served by the law’s evaluation, and we propose it. With regard to the proposal to introduce a third gender category, we refer to the party programming process in the Progress Party. I am addressing the proposal behind the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2037	The representative of Kari Kjønaas Kjos has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2042	First, I want to join in the words that came from the case-speaker, Kirkebirkeland, and I want to underline them. A joint committee stresses in its comments that those who have wanted to change the legal gender have met with a great deal of discrimination and harassment and violence. The centre party is quite clear that before 2016, before the amendment of the law, with requirements for medical diagnosis and sterilisation, the practice has been discriminatory. We support the amendment of the law in 2016 at that point. In connection with the legal proceedings, we propose to carry out an impact assessment when it came to the framework of the new practice, which went at the age limit, the need for reflection periods, the number of times one could change the legal gender, etc., but we very much agreed with the rest of the Stortinget that one removed requirements for medical diagnosis and sterilisation. When it comes to compensation schemes, we are in line with the proposal that these cases should be dealt with in detail within the framework of the general arrangements for compensation. When it comes to public causes, we found it a little difficult to go into and adopt something like this in the Storting. One can imagine that one could adopt it with a scarcely multiple. It's not the way one should come with such public causes. That's why it's hard to vote for it. When it comes to a third gender category, the Center Party doesn't have it in its program, so we won't vote for a proposal or an explanation about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2053	In 2015, we received advice from the expert group that presented the report entitled ‘Right to sex — Health for all genders’. They did not find any health professional arguments for the requirement for irreversible sterilisation as a prerequisite for gender change. I am pleased that Norway changed its policy. Now persons can change legal gender without sterilisation. SV believes that the State should make a public complaint to trans-persons who have undergone irreversible sterilisation. SV shall not be given a majority in favour of this proposal. I was not at Stortinget when the system of sterilization took place, but I want to say from Stortingen's pulpit: Sorry. I'm sorry that the state of Norway has not protected you who needed your help. I'm sorry. In Norway, there are an estimated 500 persons who have undergone sterilisation in order to change legal gender. In Sweden, they have a system for these people to apply for compensation. SV proposes a separate scheme, but does not get a majority in favour. But I am pleased that the Workers' Party to the Right wants these people to have their cases thoroughly dealt with through the general compensation schemes we have today. I am very uncertain about the arrangements these people can apply for, so I will ask the Council of State for that in the reply. Several countries recognise a third gender category in the law, such as Canada, Denmark, India, New Zealand, Australia and several states in the United States, but not Norway. It will do something about it and promote proposals about it today. I am promoting the proposal No. 3, 4 and 5 from SV. SV vote in a subsidiary way for the vote if proposal No. Four is falling.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2070	The representative Nicholas Wilkinson then addressed the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2075	Today could be a historic day. In the same way that this will have previously raised Norway towards a more equivalent society, we could today adopt important changes — changes that recognise that gross injustice has been committed and that ensure that more people live in harmony with themselves. We here at Stortinget must start by taking over the infringement that was committed until the summer of 2016. Our fellow human beings have been forced to castrate or sterilize themselves in order to be allowed to live in harmony with their own sex. The state, without the authority of the law, has subjected people among us to unnecessary interference and demanded that they remove parts of their own body. Such an infringement by the State requires settlement, both emotionally and economically. In order to remedy the damage and rebuild confidence in vulnerable minorities, the State must take responsibility, apologize unreservedly and ensure compensation. In order for our society to accommodate all of us as much as possible, we need to recognise both the injustice of the past and to facilitate the best possible way of living in harmony with ourselves today. Two years ago the Greens stood here and argued, among other things. for a third legal gender category. Those arguments are still relevant today. People who break the conventions are still not recognised. In 2019, a third legal gender was not mentioned in the Committee’s decision. At present, the main focus is on a serious wrong, but it is still suspicious that some of the proposal is rejected without any argument from the majority. The Labour Party proposes that the government should consider a third gender category. We don't want to vote against it, but we all know that in practice it will be the same as a no. The interdisciplinary report entitled ‘Right to sex’ therefore recommended a third legal gender in 2015. All the consultation responses to today's proposals are positive. It must be amazing for others to see a democratic country that Norway is voting down a human rights proposal without explaining why. The majority of the Committee agrees with the Government's assessment that the government does not wish to propose the introduction of a third gender category now. But we have an opportunity right now, so why not? A third legal gender category will be a major step forward to recognise all our citizens and reduce their invisibility. That is why it should be a matter of course to vote in favour of this. Today could be a historic day, but the majority, with the Progress Party, the Right, the Center Party, the Christian People's Party, the Labour Party and the Left, will vote down this excellent proposal from the SV. We're going to hold back from finally taking a settlement with our own story, and once again holding back in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2091	The law on legal gender change, which we introduced in 2016, was very important to many people. The change implies that individuals should be able to change their legal gender on the basis of their own experience of sex. There was an important settlement with the way this had been practised in Norway until then. I understand that the previous scheme has been a burden for those who wanted to change the legal gender, but who did not want a medical treatment and sterilisation, as the requirement was earlier. At the same time, at good and bad, there is a sense that there is much in our close story that we are not in for today, but that little was asked about earlier. My assessment is that there was a high time the change in the law on legal sex came in Norway, and that for too long we had had a practice that, in my opinion, was not in line with what we stand for in other areas of human rights. I agree with the Ministry of Justice and Defence's assessment that it is problematic to establish a separate scheme for one group according to specific criteria for compensation. It could extend the rights of this one group in relation to other groups. Persons who do not belong to the specific group but who have been subject to other burdensome circumstances will be referred to the general right to compensation and the judicial remedy system. Therefore, a single group scheme could lead to unfair discrimination compared to other groups. Equality can be used in the next round as an argument that special arrangements should be established also for other groups with a legitimate claim which are not currently met by the established arrangements in a way that they are satisfied with. This would be an unfortunate approach that could create imbalances and challenge the principle of non-discrimination. I therefore believe that a separate compensation scheme should not initially be established for persons who were sterilised in order to change legal gender, but that such requirements should be channelled through already established schemes, such as the justice system. This seems to be consistent with the assessments to which the government has previously joined, when one has discussed these issues more in principle, for example. in relation to issues relating to compensation schemes for different other groups. There is a case in progress in the legal system on this issue, and I will wait to conclude until there is a final judgment.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2104	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2109	I said it from the pulpit, and I'm asking the Council of State now: it's a majority to use the ordinary compensation arrangements we have today. What arrangements can be used, and what deadlines should these patients have? I have checked out that e.g. a period of three years is allowed for the replacement of patients. Many of these people have been sterilized many years ago, and I'm very concerned that there are no other arrangements they can use.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2114	The closest thing to you is to point out the Storting's own system, the justice system, which is designed to capture this kind of situation, and where there are completely different demands for both time and the burden of proof, etc. We believe that it is perhaps the easiest to point to as an obvious system that can be used.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2119	We had a sample, cf. the report entitled ‘Right to sex’, which suggested that we have more research on a third gender category. It's been years. Has the government done anything to follow the advice of the sample?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2124	This was a question that Stortinget also addressed in December 2019, and that proposal did not receive a majority. So it has not been followed up by the government either. This is probably a question that belongs by its very nature to the programming processes of the different parties. As the situation is now, a majority on Stortinget has neither programmed that a desire for a third gender category, nor that a wish to investigate it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2131	The Council of State has said that the government does not want to propose the introduction of a third gender category now. But neutral person numbers are on the way. Gender is to be recorded separately from person number and forms and databases have to be changed to meet this need. The introduction of a third legal gender now, when we are already going to make changes to the register, will greatly reduce costs with such implementation. Why does the Council of State feel that this is not a good time?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2136	I think that a lot of people think of this as more than a purely practical and economic question. I have full respect for the fact that the Greens have programmed it, and that other parties have programmed it, but I think this is a question that is so important that it will be right for the voters to have their opinion on it when they vote in the rollcall elections. Therefore, this is a theme that belongs naturally to the programming processes of the various parties. In my own party, this proposal has been voted down on some occasions. It is quite possible that this debate will come up again at our national meeting, and so I think it is in the other parties as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2143	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2150	SV promotes a number of proposals in this case, which deal with a small group of people in Norway who may not have received the political attention they deserve for a long time. The fact that a total of 1,500 people have changed their legal gender since the law was amended, against only 500 people in the past, shows how important it was to change the law in 2016. However, the right will join the Council of State's assessments on the issue of a public complaint and compensation scheme for this group. As also appears in letters from the Council of State, it is in principle a concern to establish a separate scheme for a group according to specific criteria. The right also supports the Labour Party's proposal, which has a majority in the vote. Furthermore, as the Council of State also mentioned, we refer to a specific case currently under way in the judiciary relating to the issues raised by the representative here, and will await a final conclusion on the question of compensation until a final judgment is passed. Furthermore, the right does not want to vote in favour of the proposal to introduce a third gender category in Norway. As late as December 2016, there was a vote in this room over a proposal that did not get a majority. In conclusion, as this is probably the last time I stand on this platform, I would like to express my deep gratitude for the fact that I have been acting as a magnificent representative since last autumn. The fact that a immigrant from Bergen, with a father who is a craftsman and a mother who is a child and youth worker, has been given representation to the capital of Norway in the national assembly, shows, in my opinion, the very peculiar quality of the Norwegian egalitarian society, which offers equal opportunities for all. I believe this regardless of which of the political blocks governs and has government power at all times. One of the pillars of Norwegian society is Norwegian democracy and the very peculiar Norwegian political culture. At a time when more liberal democracies are under pressure elsewhere in the world, therefore, this representative has found great joy in experiencing how bottom-solid and well-functioning Norwegian democracy and political culture are from the inside. One agrees to disagree, one distinguishes between the matter and the person and has both a pleasant and friendly tone between the political blows. We have to take care of this. With this I want to thank you so much for me. It has really been a great honor, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2167	That's a nice word.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2173	Thanks for the work, Mats! We've had a lot of Facebook conversations every week. So thank you for your good work! I just have to ask the centre party: the representative Toppe has said that the Storting should not adopt a complaint. I want to refer to Innst. 273 S for 2013–2014, which has a comment from the entire Committee: ‘This group therefore deserves further political recognition and collective fame.’ It was about the pioneers divers. So it's wrong, the size has done it before, and we can do it now. I am disappointed that the other parties have not signed up for a complaint against these people. I also have a question for the Workers' Party, because they have suggested that the government assess a third gender category. It is not a proposal for a sample of professionals to assess it, it is for the government to assess it. The government has said very clearly that they are against, so it's a customs proposal from the Workers' Party. I have asked the Workers' Party several times whether they can vote in favour of the SV's proposal, but they have said that they will vote against it. I've seen in many Facebook posts that they're going to work with transpersons. Now it's the day to vote in favour or against. I am disappointed that they praise themselves for helping these people, but have said in the matter that they will vote against getting a third gender category. Why? I have 53 seconds. I hope the Labour Party will answer. If not, it is very clear to Free and the other organisations that the Workers' Party cannot answer this question. Because that's a question that's very, very important to some people. There aren't many, but it's very, very important to these people. I have seen so many entries from the Workers' Party that they are going to work on having a third gender category, and now there is a proposal from the Stortinget about this. I hope they will perhaps vote in favour or argue for why they have said that they will not vote in favour of this proposal. That's nice. I think maybe I just have to stop, but it's sad that the Workers' Party can't answer why they're going to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2184	Here were several things to take hold of. Firstly, a representative cannot demand an answer while standing on the platform. Someone else might have to sign up on the list of speakers. Nor do we refer to other parties' proposals as 'customs proposals', even if one disagrees with them. We are also not on the first name in this hall and from this pulpit, although you may be a little discouraged that someone is going out of the Storting. Here it has to be followed up. I hope the representative Wilkinson takes care of that. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2203	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2210	Today we are discussing a proposal from the Progress Party on a better everyday life for visually impaired people. I want to start by thanking the Committee for its good work and not least thanking organisations and individuals who have made contact along the way to promote their views. The tradition of faith tends the case rapporteur to go up to the end and thank you for a good debate, but I would like to thank you for that too now, regardless of what comes from my colleagues. There is little disagreement in the matter, but there are different approaches to the proposals we are dealing with today. In his feedback, the Council of State says that he will follow up on the intention of the proposal for the rehabilitation of loss of vision, but that there should be an individual follow-up between patient and healthcare. It is also here that the committee separates layers, and I will present the views of the Labour Party in the matter, which have changed slightly from the position before us. We listen to the government, but we have also listened to the Blind League and had dialogue with them in the last few days. That means that proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, the Centre Party and SV – to ensure a firm practice in all healthcare companies, where all persons admitted after brain stroke are to be examined – I now warn that we support the vision function. It turns out that there are considerable differences in whether stroke patients are able to have their vision examined at all. That is why this is an explanation of vote on why we support that proposal today, which we are outside in the vote. I am addressing the proposal we are taking along with the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2221	The representative Hege Haukeland Liadal has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2226	Having a visual impairment is an event that has consequences in many areas of life. A person with a visual impairment must be able to feel confident that help and good support are available, and there are many good support schemes, even if the loss of vision has turned down on a lot of life. Unfortunately, it is not automatic for the person affected to be contacted with the right help. People wait an average of five years until they lose sight of them. The longer you wait, the greater the danger of not getting back to work, unable to be physically active and losing much of the social network. This is what the Progress Party believes is very alarming. Therefore, we believe that it should be a firm practice in all healthcare professionals that all patients with demonstrated visual impairment are referred to the necessary rehabilitation. Good rehabilitation after impact is important. Research shows that up to 60 pst. by those who have had a stroke, also have visual disturbances. However, the follow-up of victims in the various regions is very different. Vision review is not part of the national offer of sheep affected. There is a clear advantage for those involved, to detect early visual disturbances, to avoid unnecessary complications and misdiagnosis, and to get proper treatment and follow-up. It's incomprehensible to me if visual function is not included in the systematic investigation of stroke patients, when studies show that more than half of those affected by strokes also have visual disturbances. Therefore, the Progress Party believes that it should be a firm practice in all health establishments that all persons admitted after brain stroke are examined for visual function. I would also like to give an explanation of vote on proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox The Progress Party will not support it. The proposal states ‘possible use of opticians’, etc. For the Progress Party it has been clear for many years that there will be increased use. In addition to that, I would like to address the proposal of the Advance Party in the matter, including the proposal we have together with the Central Party and the Socialist Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2239	The representative of Morten Stordalen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2244	This is a matter that deals with the rehabilitation and diagnosis of loss of vision and eye diseases. If we're going to talk about what kind of details the size should care about, I actually thought that this case is very special, because we're going a long way in saying what to evaluate and diagnose at a special medical facility, for example. in connection with stroke. In fact, what we are proposing today should be totally unnecessary. The reason why we are also involved in this proposal is feedback from patients and user organisations over the years, which are very concerned that this is not being done. Patients admitted with stroke do not receive a systematic assessment of vision loss. I've experienced it myself, as a relative. That's pretty special. I know that the national professional guidelines for an assessment after, for example: Of course, stroke involves an evaluation of visual function. In all these national professional orientations, the word "should" and the word "should" are a specific way of writing it, so it rarely says "must", because one should have a medical understanding that is valid in all cases. ‘Should’ can be read as ‘should’ in most cases, but it seems that there are not enough routines out there. There are too many patients who have experienced strokes, who come out with a visual event that is not known, and who are very problematic to deal with without a proper diagnosis or follow-up. It's the same thing about rehabilitation. There are probably too long waiting lists and too little systematics in that even those with eye disease and visual acuity need rehabilitation. They can work much better in everyday life if they get it. Proposal No. 3, which is the loose proposal, calls for an assessment of the public supply and professional cooperation between eye and opticians, and, where appropriate, the use of opticians where appropriate as part of the public service. It is a shame that the Progress Party does not participate and creates multiple numbers for this, if they want multiple optics to be included as part of the public service.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2257	I've had a stroke, and I look very badly on the left eye. So this matter is personal to me, and I would like to thank the representative Åshild Bruun-Gundersen for addressing this matter. It is unacceptable when the Blind Alliance announces that people on average wait five years from their loss of vision until they receive visual rehabilitation. And as we know, the longer you wait, the greater the consequences, this can have, and the opportunities for rehabilitation are getting worse. I notice that the government parties have not written any comments on rehabilitation and follow-up of visual damage among stroke patients. I do not know whether they have not read the matter, or whether they have only chosen not to work with the matter, but in any case it is not okay. We make 1 million. kr – do the job! Studies show that more than half of those who have had a stroke also have visual disturbances. SV, the Progress Party, the Center Party and now the Workers' Party want all persons admitted to brainstroke to have the visual function examined. That's great. I wonder why this is not adopted unanimously. I am pleased that we have a majority in favour of referencing people who have experienced visual problems to rehabilitation. I hope that the Workers' Party, the Progress Party and the Centre, who vote in favour of this for stroke patients with visual problems, will also vote in favour of the SV's proposal for a plan for the entire rehabilitation offer – not just for stroke patients. The Blind Alliance and the Advance Party have raised an important issue. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2270	Seeing well is a luxury many of us take for granted. For most people who experience slightly reduced vision, it is easy to correct with glasses or lenses, but for some, for example. On the other hand, stroke patients are not as simple. For this group, it is important that there is a good offer, and that you get help and follow-up the way you need it. The existence of an offer doesn't mean it's perfect. It is important to keep looking at how a offer can be made better, and I am therefore pleased that the Council of State has announced a review of the rehabilitation offer for people with reduced vision. The aim of this review is to ensure a rapid offer of rehabilitation to those who need it, I think it is good. I am also pleased that the Council of State signals that such a review should be carried out together with professionals and user representatives. The government wants to create patients' health care. In this, it is important that it is the individual person who is in focus and that it is put up for an offer that is individually tailored to the needs of each person. However, I would like to say that it is important that what you need is quickly put in place, even if individual assessments are to be made. But as I said, I am very pleased that the Council of State has notified this review, and that it will be done together with professionals, along with user representatives, and I am excited about what will come out of such a review.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2279	In a letter to the Committee of 6 November 2020, I stated that I want to ensure that people with serious eye disease are offered rehabilitation, and we have assessed how the Stortinge decision can be followed up. In the 2021 letter of award, the Directorate-General for Health has been mandated to draw up a professional recommendation on the provision of rehabilitation services for persons with serious eye disease. The size has granted 1 million. NOK for this work in 2021. The Health Directorate was also given the task of proposing measures to ensure that follow-up of post-brain stroke visual disturbances is followed up in hospitals, in line with the national guidelines for stroke. The work shall be carried out in cooperation with user organisations and services in relevant sectors. The Committee asks the Government to ‘ensure a firm practice in all health establishments, where all patients with demonstrated visual impairment are referred to the necessary rehabilitation’. The Health Directorate has reviewed the mission of rehabilitation in the event of visual impairment. They state that a prerequisite for referring to a rehabilitation offer is to have an overview of the patient groups to have visual rehabilitation, the organisation of the offer, the legal framework and the professional actors that can contribute. The perception of good rehabilitation services by patients and services is an important basis for the development of serious eye disease rehabilitation services in general and for the follow-up of visually impaired strokes in particular. The Health Directorate proposes to approximate the provision of rehabilitation services to visually impaired people in a holistic manner, adapted to the needs of individuals, and I will follow the evaluations of the Directorate. With this procedure, the Directorate will ensure the coherence between the proposals to change the practice in hospitals for serious eye disease rehabilitation by also defining and describing the healthcare services that need to be ready to provide the provision of rehabilitation services. This will also meet the mandate given in 2018 to investigate the organisation of the offer of hearing-impaired and visually impaired persons. The hearing investigation has been carried out. I said in the discussion of the representative’s draft hearing plan on 11 February that I wanted to see loss of vision investigated when the pandemic situation allowed. The Health Directorate proposes to launch the follow-up to the proposed representative now and will provide a knowledge base, action and plan for further work by 1 December 2021. The Health Directorate is working on an overview of today’s rehabilitation services for people with serious eye disease, where they will address the areas in the course of which action is most important in order to exploit resources and improve quality. This will be the start of an overall approach and the development of rehabilitation services for people with serious eye disease.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2302	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2308	In the case of percussion visual examinations, the Council of State, in a letter to the Committee, refers to the national guideline for the treatment and rehabilitation of strokes, and that the Directorate of Health is to be given a mandate to ensure that this recommendation is followed in all health care establishments. As I think, this recommendation has recently been considered, and at this very point it has not been strengthened. It has been a recommendation for many years that one should examine the visual function of a stroke, not that one should do it. So my question to the Council of State is how he and the Department believe that there can be a change in this, when the wording of the recommendation is exactly the same as he has been for many years?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2317	That's why I have commissioned the Health Directorate to propose measures to ensure that the follow-up of post-brain stroke visual disturbances is followed up in the hospitals, in line with the national guidelines for stroke. This work will be carried out in cooperation with user organisations and services in relevant sectors, so I expect the Directorate to come up with proposals for action to ensure that this is followed up in line with the guidelines.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2322	My question is that the guidelines may seem too weak, as they will not be followed up in the services. What I think should have been considered is to streamline the guidelines, so that they are not so difficult to understand in the services or can be interpreted in different ways. Another way to do this is to create a circular that will deepen how you can evaluate what is in these guidelines. I don't know what else is going on when the Council says 'action', because it's all wrong that there is a national professional guideline to stick to, and when it's so impeccable about what's going to be the practice, I don't quite understand what kind of action to put in place. Is it possible for the State Councils to elaborate on the actions it refers to to to be taken in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2331	If I had known what measures, I would not have asked the directorate to make proposals for action. That's why I've asked for these measures, and I look forward to getting suggestions on it. The Directorate will also be in dialogue with user organisations and services, and if they then receive feedback that it is the Directorate’s own professional guideline that is one of the challenges, it could be one of the measures that the Directorate can follow very easily, because it is the Directorate that sets these guidelines itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2336	That was my third question – whether one will consider changing and strengthening the national professional guidelines. Then, to the extent that the stasrån has already responded to it, thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2341	It is important, then, that it is the Directorate that sets professional guidelines and not the Council of State or the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2346	So the chord change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2365	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2372	Even before I entered the Stortinget nearly 16 years ago, the criticism of placing children and young people in nursing homes existed. At the time, I was a local politician, and I asked the rapporteur if we had any young people in our community. The answer I got was that we didn't have it. Then there was a mother who contacted me, and she could tell that her 20-year-old son, against his will, was placed in a nursing home. I went away that time to the nursing home and talked to the boy, and I managed after a long fight to get him moved to a care center for the youth. Since then, this issue has been very important to me. I have to admit that I think it is hopeless that a matter of which there is a cross-political agreement, and which has been going on for so long, does not seem to create lasting change. It is obvious that there is no longer enough good thoughts and intentions on the part of Stortinget. There must be a ban in the law of this place. Because of some difficulty in the issue I am promoting on behalf of SV and the Progress Party a loose proposal on that very thing. I do not agree that the State has spent more on the municipalities in terms of resource-intensive services. Transfers from the State to the municipalities have increased sharply in recent years. Both municipalities and the state have increased expenditure due to multiple users and an increase in prices and wages. In the 2021 budget agreement between the government parties and the Progress Party, we decided to change the limit on when small municipalities with high costs of resource-intensive services can receive grants. The limit of the population limit was changed to 3,200 inhabitants, and the frame was increased to 55 million. kr. However, we support the proposal for a decision to ask the government to review the scheme in order to ensure that all relevant costs are borne by the municipality as a basis for the municipal excess. We also support the proposal for a decision to ask the government to investigate and submit a step two of the top-level funding scheme with a maximum per capita. I therefore recommend the Committee's recommendation, and I will address the solution of the proposal of which the Progress Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2385	The representative of Kari Kjønaas Kjos has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2390	The Central Party supports the intention behind this proposal that children and young people should not be busied at the hospital in violation of their own wishes or wishes. We have considered the loose proposal that will be put forward on behalf of the Progress Party and the Socialist Left, which is not right about a legislative change, but is asking the government to make proposals, and we are going to support that proposal today. We disagree with the Progress Party in their description of the municipal economy, and it is clear that when the Stortinget is going to be very clear about this, it also has to be given a framework to the municipalities to create alternative housing. In the setting, we show you, among other things, to the review of the top-level funding scheme by Telemark research, and we stress in our notes that it needs to be followed up with the necessary changes in funding of resource-requiring services in municipalities. The government and the majority of the population, including the Progress Party, have for the past six years ordered the municipalities to take an increasingly large part of the bill for services for residents with a high level of care needs, as we are talking about now. This alone has caused the municipalities to increase expenses of 1.4 billion. kr in the last six years. So this is how municipalities have been paid extra costs to follow up their statutory duties. I am pleased that, in this case, there will be a number of proposals for a review of the resource-requiring services scheme and ensuring that all relevant costs incurred by municipalities are taken into account as a basis for the municipal ownership, and that steps two of the top-level funding scheme are taken into account. It means something, even though the proposal and the matter are about, it is something of great value, and it is not about money and economics. It shouldn't, because it's a right, but we have to make sure that the municipalities have the financial framework to do just that, which the Storting is now very clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2403	First, I would like to say that at least to some extent I recognize myself in the description given by the representative Kari Kjønaas Kjos. Still, it's young people who live in a nursing home against their will, and I know that there are more in my own county, or what we now call constituency, who have been living in a nursing home even though they may have been only in the 20s. I think it actually shows a slightly broader problem. It's not just about being placed in a nursing home if you've been exposed to a disease or a serious injury. Many families also tell about how difficult it is to get housing, suitable housing, to children who have needed help all their lives, and where you have really known this from the very beginning, or at least from a very early age. So I think this is really about a pretty broad perspective. There was a little clapping and babbing, to say it like that, with this setting when we worked with it. Initially, the Progress Party and SV promoted a legislative proposal directly in the proposal for a representative, and the Labour Party said that we did not want to participate in a direct legislative change in a proposal for a representative. But now it has changed so that there will be a loose proposal that the Labour Party will vote for, and which will thus receive a majority today. I take it for granted that the wording will be quality assured by the government when this is presented as a legislative proposal to the Stortinget. We – SV, the Progress Party and the Workers’ Party – have had experience in this major period working on legal work, but it is important that we have the department and the good legal quality assurance in place. So I'm glad that it gets the majority, even though it has been the will of the Storing and majority for this really over several years through the request decision. Now I think all the proposals the Labour Party is part of, have already been taken up, but then I can at least be happy to say that I support them. Then I would like to take the opportunity, even if the representative has left the hall, to return the thanks to the representative Mats A. Kirkebirkeland. It was a very nice closing speech to our colleagues in the Health Committee, so it was repeated.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2416	For young people with a functional challenge, it is an extra burden to be placed in an institution without other people of their own age being there, at least if they do so against their own will. Everyone agrees. Young people who are seriously ill or disabled also have the right to free and independent life, which is stated by the legislation governing health and care services in municipalities. We agree on that, too. I would also like to show that the Health Directorate reports that by 31 December 2019, nine children under the age of 18 had permanent residence in a municipal health and care institution for the elderly. Of these, three had a move request. The directorate tells us that all three of them had a concrete moving plan. Although it may be easy to say that this applies to very few people, it is very important for them, so this is an important matter – everyone agrees. The Storting has previously taken decisions to ensure that children are not settled in a nursing home against their will, most recently in the context of last year's debate on the throne. The following were adopted: ‘The government asks the government to promote the necessary legislative change that determines that no municipality can place people between 0 and 50 years, in hospital against their own will. In the case of children, the will of the next of kin shall be that of the next of kin.’» The Council of State writes in a letter to the Committee on this matter that we will be briefed on the follow-up to this Decision. So this is going to be done. Our impression is that the municipalities are stretching far in order to prevent young people from being placed in nursing homes contrary to the wishes of the young people or their relatives. However, it is important to state that no children or young people in Norway should experience having to live in a nursing home in breach of their own wishes. There is a loose proposal with a legislative amendment. A broad majority of the Committee is sceptical about the right of a legislative amendment to a proposal for a representative without a case-by-case examination and without the legislative amendment being consulted. The majority of the Committee also points to the fact that health and care services in the municipality are mainly financed by free income. The top level funding for resource-intensive services is a complement to the free revenues of municipalities and is not intended to cover all the expenditure in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2434	Now I'm really happy. I thought we didn't get a majority, but now it looks like there's a majority for a very concrete proposal to change the law, so that young adults and children won't be settled in a nursing home without them wanting to. The Storting made a decision that no municipality can place people between 0 and 50 years of age in a nursing home against their own will. The right, Christian People's Party and the left voted against this. SV and the Christian People's Party were given a majority in 2018 for children not to be living in a nursing home, but we know that the government has not completed the job. Isabella is only one of several sick children who have been placed in nursing homes for the elderly. When the government does not do the job, Stortinget must take responsibility and propose to amend the law. I have no faith that the right-wing parties will vote in favour of the proposal. Maybe the Christian People's Party could do that, but they've chosen the blue side to try to torpedo the changes in the Biotechnology Act. But everyone has seen that it was not a very good plan, so they have chosen to support the Right, which has usually voted against several such new rights. I am pleased that SV is getting a majority for a review of the system of resource-intensive services and a step two for strengthening the scheme. Then municipalities can get the resources they need, and make a good help at home. Then it becomes much easier to be at home even if you're nurturing, and I hope Isabella, the other kids and the young adults can finally move home.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2445	Children and young people with disabilities should have the most independent life possible, even if they need help. They should not live in institutions intended for the elderly. It is a municipal responsibility to provide good care to the citizens. The right to participation and the professional and ethical standards of the health requirement are central to the provision of adequate services by the municipality. My impression is that the municipalities generally extend far in order to prevent young people from being placed in nursing homes when this is contrary to the wishes of the young people or their relatives. If a user considers that the municipality has important considerations and that the requirements for safety are not met, this can be complained to the State administrator. The Health Directorate has been given a number of years to ensure that the State Manager has an overview and follow-up of municipalities that have young people living in institutions for the elderly. The State administrator shall provide concrete guidance to these municipalities in order to find good solutions. The number of people aged 18 to 49 living in old and sick homes varies slightly from year to year, but the recent years have shown a downward trend. Also, several of those who have wanted to move have a concrete plan for moving. From 2020, children between 0 and 18 years of age are also included in the reporting. The Storting has asked the government to promote a necessary legislative change that states that no municipality can place people between 0 and 50 years of age in a nursing home against their will. For a child it will be the will of the nearest relative that applies. The size will be properly informed on the follow-up to this request decision and any legislative proposals will be sent to the hearing. The High Finance Facility shall facilitate the provision of a good service to beneficiaries in need of comprehensive health and care services by municipalities. In 2021 it is budgeted with 11 billion. NOK to this. There is also a scheme of additional compensation through the discretionary means, with 55 million. kr for municipalities with higher proportions per capita. The size has asked the government to propose a more accurate methodology for calculating grants to the smallest municipalities with the greatest need for resource-intensive services. We will come back to this in connection with the 2022 municipality proposition, which is presented in May.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2464	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2469	Now it is the case that the Stortinget has in the past gathered that you do not want young people to live in a nursing home against their will. Nevertheless, I know about several municipalities where this happens. To avoid making this participative polemics, I can say that I am aware that this is happening both in municipalities governed by the Workers' Party and in municipalities governed by the Right. I simply wonder what the Minister for Health wants to say, in concrete terms, to our fellow Members, to the rapporteurs and to the people who live in a nursing home, but who do not want to do so. Because we know that here there are actually some people doing it, against their will.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2483	I would say, of course, that people should not live in institutions against their will, and it is particularly important that this is not done in the case of children and young people. There is also some reason why we have asked the state administrators to follow up these actions very specifically with each municipality, and that it is also being neglected that there are concrete plans for relocation in those cases where an institution lives against its will. This is incredibly important to follow up, I fully agree with the Stortinget. I also perceive that it has been very closely followed up over time, but we still see that there are municipalities that use institutions for different reasons for a period, even if it is contrary to what are the national leaders.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2488	Just to get it across with a teaspoon: is it to understand that the government's expectation to the state administrators is that these municipalities should be followed up in such a way that this settlement ceases to exist, not that the role of state administrators is to give an acceptance or approval of its continued existence?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2493	That's absolutely right. In fact, I believe that this arrangement was established when she, who is now president, was responsible for this, and it has been a very careful follow-up of the municipalities. The intention there is not to give an acceptance, the purpose is to ensure that the municipalities actually establish concrete plans for the relocation of those who are young and who live in institutions against their will.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2498	SV and Bollestad from the Christian People's Party had a proposal that no children should be living in a nursing home, which had a majority. But we know that has happened since 2018. Now we've got a majority on the Stortinget that children and young adults, those between the ages of 0 and 50, don't go to nursing homes. The Right Party, the Christian Party, and the Left, voted against it. I'm a little unsure whether it's going to be followed up, so I'm going to ask very specifically: will the government give priority to working on changing this law in this period, before the summer, in order for this to change? I understand that it will take longer to finish. But will the government start the job this spring?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2505	Yes, we started working on this after Stortinget decided this before Christmas, but I cannot now give any timetable for that work. This is a legislative change that will have quite a number of consequences, so it is important that the municipalities that are affected, among other things. by this amendment, is given the opportunity to speak, and that one will see the consequences before possibly promoting such a change of law to the Stortinget. Because it is clear that what in municipal reality will appear to be a very big challenge is what they should do as an alternative in a situation where they feel that they have no other decent offer. That's what's going to be the big dilemma of this law.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2510	The councils referred to the decision we had. Now I'm going to refer to the decision we're going to make today. It's a very concrete proposal to change the law, a paragraph of the law. Will the government give priority to working on this spring?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2515	We want to work on the proposals adopted by the Stortinget. Now there's probably no very big difference in the content of what the Storting decided on in this area before Christmas, and it's a decision now. What you're doing now is you're pointing to which paragraphs you want the change to happen. I don't see that that's what's most important for the Storting, but that it's most important for the Storting that this is actually being regulated. It is not a simple matter, and that means that that amendment should review the usual procedural and consultation requirements, so that one is sure of the consequences of such a change in the law, so that the Stortinget has a sufficient basis for taking such a decision. It's my responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2520	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2539	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2546	In this proposal for a representative, the Socialist Left proposes to legislate for logoped in the municipalities. This will imply a change in health and care laws by adding logoped to the list of health professionals in a municipality that is required to have sex with those who are there today, i.e. doctors, nurses, physiotherapists, midwives, health nurses, ergot therapists and psychologists. A study conducted by the Afasi Association in 2019 showed that 62.7 pst. the municipalities do not have a public logoped that treats adults. The responsibility in these municipalities lies with private logo-peders. Many municipalities, and especially the smallest municipalities, are also missing private logo-peders. A Joint Committee shares the concerns of the proposers that there is different access to the logoped and that this could result in patients not being granted the right to the necessary health care. There are currently weaknesses in the organisation and financing of logoped services in municipalities, and a single committee points to the need for more logoed workers in municipalities. The majority of the committee, however, are excluded from the statutory requirement for a logoped requirement in the municipalities. The Central Party and the Workers' Party wrote in their comments that we believe that there are others and better ways to secure more municipal logos than to use a legal obligation. There are now many important health professionals who play an important role in health services, which are not regulated. For example, they're like most of them, health professionals. Other examples include child protection educators and music therapists. It's only a central key staff member who's legalized today. Then we show that the Health Directorate has developed a proposal on regulatory changes and tariffs for logoing services in municipalities. That report is now available. In its report, the Health Directorate points to three economic instruments for linking logopeds to municipalities: municipal operating agreement fixed-wage allowance via a population-back payment of reimbursement to municipalities All of this is interesting, and the Health Directorate is asking for action in both the short and longer term. They already said in November 2019 that the Department should prepare a hearing draft for a total revision of the Social Security Act § 5-10, which deals with treatment for languages and speech defects and related regulations. This is what both the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV have recorded as an alternative publisher in the setting, to do precisely this review in line with the Health DG recommendations. With that, I take up the proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and SV in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2575	The representative Kjersti Toppe then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2580	We need to legislate for logoped in the municipalities, so that everyone gets the language they need. I can talk again. I've got help. Now I want to use my voice to get everyone else back to their voice. There has been unison support for the proposal – from the Legeforeningen, Norwegian Association for Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Norwegian Logopedlag, Brain tumor association, Afasi Association, Dysleksi Norway, LHL Brain Battle, Sunnaa Hospital, Brain Council, Personal injury association and Norway's Parkinson's Association. I have spoken to Major Bjørshol, who suffered a blow. He had to wait for the logoped for months. We know that early rehabilitation is best, and when we don't provide help early enough, help gets much worse. People who have suffered a major injury cannot call private logo-peders to order an hour. How are they going to do it without language? I could just say one word for several weeks after the damage, and it's a base word for everyone: Mom. Should I call private logo-peders and say "Mommy, Mom, Mom" and hope I got an hour? That's the system we have today. Therefore, it is very important that all municipalities associate themselves with logopeds. A study from 2019 shows that 62.7 pst. the municipalities do not have an adult logoped. We have a system that privatises the entire system. If a municipality hires a logoped, it costs. If the patient uses private logo horses, the state pays. Of course, several municipalities remove logopeds with today's system. Those who live in big cities can get help from private logo horses, which the government pays – if they have family who can help them get an hour, as I had. The others get very little help. Now is the time for the Storting to raise its voice, so that all people who have lost theirs get the help they need. I'm addressing what the Socialist Left Party proposal is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2599	The representative, Nicholas Wilkinson, then addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2604	We're lucky in Norway. We have a well-developed and competent service offer that is still being developed. It probably also means that there is often a growing desire to legislate which offer is to be available and who is authorised to exercise it. The municipalities of Norway have a responsibility to ensure that those in the municipality receive the services they need. Much of this is not legal or need to be legal today. To make lawmaking the only way to signal the importance of an offer, I am uncertain whether the way is to go. There is a statutory obligation to provide sound health and care services, and many services and professional groups that are not necessarily regulated today are therefore necessary to offer, even if they are not statutory in themselves. The majority of the Committee has noted that the Council of State is considering a report by the Health Directorate on changes in legislation and tariffs in order to facilitate better interaction between the Logoped services and the municipal services. Now I'm excited about what's going to come out of it. Increasing cooperation between the different services can be an important way to ensure better follow-up for those who need it. Good services are good and important. Legislation is not in all cases the only thing right, and I agree with the Council of State that we should be careful with detailing how the municipality itself chooses to solve its tasks. I think this is an example of this, and the government parties and the Progress Party are united in this view.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2615	At the suggestion of the government, it is now legal for the municipalities to be associated with doctors, nurses, physiotherapists, midwives, health nurses, ergot therapists and psychologists. Although the law covers many occupational groups, the law is not exhaustive as to the type of competence or professional qualifications that each municipality must provide. The municipality must have access to a wide range of competent personnel in order to provide necessary and sound services. In many cases, the provision of logoped services will be necessary for the municipality to fulfil its obligation to provide necessary and sound health and care services. As I stated in the letter to the Committee of 23 November 2020, I agree that there are weaknesses in the organisation and financing of the logoped services in the municipality today. On this basis, the Health Directorate has identified economic, legal and pedagogical tools to link logopeds closer to the municipality. A November 2019 report also proposes changes to current legislation and tariffs to facilitate better interaction. The Ministry is now considering the various proposals in the report. Like the majority of the committee, I agree that the logoped should not be included in the list of personnel groups that the municipality must have attached to it. Such a change in the Health and Care Services Act § 3-2 should only be considered once the Ministry has reviewed the current arrangements. Logopeder is not an authorised personnel group. The lack of authorization does not in itself prevent the municipality from having an obligation to attach logoped. Nevertheless, it may be argued that such legalisation should initially be reserved for authorised health professionals groups. As referred to by the Committee, the Ministry now assesses whether it is appropriate to propose the authorisation of logo-peders. In this respect, the Ministry looks at the review of various proposals to link the logoped services closer to the municipality. If the Ministry proposes to authorise the logopeds, a consultation note with such a proposal will be drawn up. This is also a reason why it should not now be concluded that there is a legal obligation for municipalities to associate logoped.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2628	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2633	The Health Directorate has made a report, and we had to ask for insight into him to find out what had been proposed, and there are very many concrete and good suggestions in both the short and long term, which I also mentioned in my post. In November 2019, the Directorate recommended the Department to prepare a hearing draft for a complete revision of the Social Security Act § 5-10 on the treatment of language and speech defects and related regulations. New law and regulations should be based on the Health Directorate working from January 2021. Now we're a long way behind. It has been Korona, but I have to ask the Council of State if he has not intended to follow up the very clear advice of the Health Directorate on such a review of the Law on People's Rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2640	That's what we're going to do, but as the representative was inside, the department has also had a little bit more to do with it lately.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2646	Can the Council of State tell if this is a priority task now, because this is also a matter that is important. For example, when it takes a long time to make such representations, the Council of State may at least tell if it wants to start this work, for example. This spring? It could have been a good feedback to get when it is such a clear recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2651	It is true that most of the cases dealt with by the Ministry of Health and Welfare are important – and important for individual patients. It is quite clear that we would like this spring to be such that we could now take up some of the things that are waiting, but unfortunately it seems that this spring too is very marked by the pandemic, so I cannot provide a timetable for that work now. We are working to keep as much progress as possible in other matters as well, but it is demanding at this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2656	I was just thinking of using the word "mother," but I think it might be a little difficult for Bent Höie to understand what I wanted to say. I have received help, but I did not receive help from my municipality. There was so little help, so I had to use private logo pads in Oslo. It's much easier if you live with big cities, and I had a family who could call this private logoped. It is very unfair, from SV's point of view, that there are so few logo horses around the country. For example, a study from 2019 shows that 62,7 pst. of the municipalities do not have a public logoped for adults. Will the Council of State accept that? And if the Council of State doesn't accept it, what will the Council of State do with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2663	No, we don't want to accept that. I fully agree with the representative’s description both now in the line and – not least – what was stated in the post on the representative’s personal experience. It's very unfortunate that we're in a situation where many people who need logoped services don't get it well enough and fast enough. And we know this is very important to be able to master a life after different injuries and illnesses that give the kind of needs. There is also some reason why we had started a quite extensive work on this, which has not stopped, but which unfortunately has not received the progress we would like – because we have also had a number of other things that we have had to prioritize in the last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2668	The council talked a little bit about authorising. Norway has not authorised logo horses. In Europe, only Bulgaria, Denmark, Estonia, Croatia and Hungary have not authorised logo horses. The Ministry has refused to authorise logo pedigrees in Norway — one more time. But I know that there is a complaint going on. What does the Council of State think of this? Are we going to authorize logos, as the majority of the countries in Europe have done?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2673	It's also one of the suggestions that we're now working on. It is quite right, as the representative said, that previous assessments have said no. But this is something that we are now considering again, and in the case, it will then be sent to the hearing, if we propose the authorisation of logo horses.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2678	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2685	Over the years I've been sitting on Stortinget, I've had a lot of contact with people who have had a stroke, and who have experienced very big problems getting the logo pedicure they need. Many have had to wait a very long time too, which means that recovering the ability to speak is much harder. I see that, for example, in the perspective notice, the government is in a position to count on what is paid. At least there is no doubt that it will pay off, for society too, if more people who have been hit by strokes and aphasia, or others who need the help of a logoped, can get it, so that they can communicate themselves. I think the calculation goes into positive economics, but the pure human being is perfectly obvious; being able to express itself is so important to all people. I know that the Council of State is a very busy man and also has other important things to do for now, but I had hoped that the Council of State would have been clearer about this, that it is a very clear goal to get this to – you may not get it right now, but the goal is that people should actually get logoped when they need it. I also heard that the words were referred to as ‘to regulate in detail’ into the law. That's what I've been discussing many times, because there's been different opinions about what's really going to be in this law of designations of different health professionals. There may be different opinions about this, but once the government has chosen the sea, and SV has supported it now, to get some of these professional terms back into the law, then I think it is quite obvious that logoped should be on that list. It's so crucial for so many people who actually become very disabled, unnecessary, because they don't get the logo pad help they're going to have. So I'm not afraid to regulate in detail in this area, because it's about realising the statutory duty of the municipalities to provide these health services. We know that today it doesn't work very many places, and I think we can't continue to be so patient about this. Therefore, SV will continue to press for this statutory act.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2696	It is not that today, because SV is alone in this proposal, the Storting is not concerned with getting more logopeds to the municipalities. You decide a joint committee in the configuration. It is very important to stress from the speaker's chair that the Stortinget has made it clear that there is a need to get more logo-peders to the municipalities. So there's a disagreement about the way it's going to happen. When it comes to SV's proposals, which are based on the law, it is that in a large municipality like Oslo, a law is fulfilled by the fact that there is a municipal logoped available here. It doesn't say anything about getting a logoped in line with the need. We point this out in another way, which is about financial arrangements and looking at changes in other laws, and we are based on concrete proposals from the Health Directorate, which have gone through this and come up with several measures in both the short and long term. I can't agree with a statement that if you're against a law, you don't care that there will be more logopeds coming to the municipalities, because that's not true. It's a challenge with SV's proposals, and it's that if you're going to legislate, what about the health professionals? They're not legal today. Are health professionals less important, less world-wide than logo-peders? There is no hope of entering into such a discussion, for if one is to continue expanding, one must have many more, and it also becomes problematic. First of all, we don't think that this is the way to secure more of the local authorities' logos. I think that you need to keep up the follow-up to the Health Directorate report – it is the way to go in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2707	I have not said that there is someone who does not care about this. SV, the Central Party and the Workers' Party agree on this proposal to which the representative Toppe was now up and referred. There are a lot of professional groups that are necessary, but I haven't heard of any municipalities that don't have health professionals, while I've heard of a lot of municipalities that don't have logoped. That's what the situation is now, and that's why we choose to push this. But as I said, we agree with the proposal of the Central Party, so there is no contradiction here.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2714	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2732	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2739	In this case, two proposals from the Progress Party are being put forward. It concerns the removal of dwelling obligations for residential real estate and recreational real estate. The Committee has, in its work, sought the opinion of the Government, which follows on from its referral. The Committee has also met and received written input into the matter. I would like to point out that according to the law it is up to the individual municipality to assess whether the housing obligation for residential property will be imposed. Sections 7 and 10 of the Concession Act provide that municipalities may introduce local regulations on the concession obligation for properties that are otherwise exempt from the concession obligation under the Concession Act. Among other things, there is an opening for municipalities to demand that properties be occupied 50 pst. of the days of the year. The Ministry has stated that there are currently 43 municipalities that have introduced such local regulations. The purpose may be to prevent the use for recreational purposes of properties that should be used for all-year-old dwellings. There are several aspects of housing that are not mentioned in the proposal of the Progress Party, including: the normative question relating to who benefits from the lifting of a housing obligation scheme and who bears the disadvantages. It appears in the Opinion that the obligation to live can further contribute to the strengthening of residence and activity in areas that are otherwise marked by part-time residents. I suppose that the Progress Party should not really be involved in this comment, since all parties, with the exception of the Advance Party, are behind the recommendation to reject the proposal. It is therefore unclear what the Progress Party believes. In this context, it can also be noted that the Progress Party is in yet another comment, that the obligation to live is a possible means of ensuring access to dwellings, so that they are inhabited, and not converted into recreational dwellings. It is worth noting that the government in its assessment of the proposal is clear that it is not desirable to carry out further liberalisation in soil and concession legislation, nor is it possible, at this stage, for local regulations relating to housing obligations under the concession law. That is good and gets broad agreement from the committee. The majority see it as right that municipalities can assess whether it is desirable to impose a dwelling obligation on residential property. This law is one of the possibilities for municipalities to regulate the use of the properties in the municipality, and thus how development becomes local. Local self-government must be strong. It is best for municipalities to assess whether it is appropriate to impose a dwelling obligation on residential real estate. The attitude of the centre party is known: the possibility of dwelling on residential property is best governed by the municipalities and those who know the local conditions. It is good to see that the position now has broad agreement in the committee, from Right to SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2758	First, I want to recognise both the Right Party, the Center Party, the SV and the Christian People's Party which together with us in the Workers' Party constitute a clear majority in this matter. As an overall committee, the Progress Party included, refers to, according to the law, it's up to each municipality to assess the imposition of housing obligations on residential property, and that's the municipal autonomy we're talking about. It is also worth noting that an overall committee – with the exception of the Progress Party – indicates that it makes sense for the local authorities themselves to consider this. They know the local conditions, and they're the ones who are the closest to making these decisions. As the majority writes: ‘This law is one of the possibilities available to municipalities to regulate the use of the properties in the municipality. Local self-government must be strong. It is the municipalities that can best assess whether it is appropriate to impose a dwelling obligation on residential property.» I have to say that I am a little surprised that the Progress Party does not find it possible to participate in such a comment, when we were able to hear representatives of the same party standing here in the Chamber at the latest on Tuesday this week and complain that the local self-government was clipped. On Tuesday, the Progress Party was the best friend of municipal self-government. So today, on Thursday of the same week, the Progress Party will deprive the municipalities of the ability to rule themselves. There's something that doesn't hang on here. So now the politics and rhetoric of the Progress Party have become so incoherent that it really doesn't matter whether to get annoyed or take it seriously. We also know that the long-standing and former rapporteur of the Progress Party on Whaler was a strong defender of the obligation to live. Then this wing from the Progress Party becomes completely incomprehensible, and they are in strong conflict with themselves. The progress party believes one thing about municipal autonomy before lunch, and then they mean something different after lunch, to use the representative Njåstad's own words from Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2768	Right thinks local self-government should be strong. Paragraphs 7 and 10 of the Concession Act provide that the municipalities may introduce a local regulation on the concession obligation for property which is otherwise exempt from the concession obligation under the Concession Act. However, this proposal for a representative deals with an inconclusive ban on bus services, and the proposers refer to the 2002 investigation by NMBU, where different negative consequences of the obligation to provide services are highlighted. The concession law basically covers all types of property. However, a number of exceptions make most property in Norway not subject to a concession obligation. There are several aspects of housing policy that are not mentioned in this proposal by the Progress Party. Among other things, as mentioned, there is the normative question of who will take advantage of the obligation arrangement being lifted, and who will bear the disadvantages. Obligation is a major intervention in private property law. At the same time, an understanding should be given that municipalities want to act in order to ensure a good business environment. However, there may also be a question of who should benefit from the particular attractiveness of some property. There are large differences in the extent to which municipalities regard the use of the housing as a challenge, but in some areas of the press for recreational housing, it would be desirable to make use of the housing obligation. There are now 43 municipalities that have implemented such local regulations. In the Right, we see it as right that this is still up to the municipality – that they themselves can assess whether it is desirable to impose a ban on bus services. Local self-government must be strong. Municipalities should continue to assess for themselves whether or not they have the right to impose a ban on bus services in their municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2781	First, the Progress Party is subject to comments explaining that housing can contribute to enhanced housing or that housing is a possible means of ensuring access to housing. That's not the result of us thinking that it's the right policy, even if we're involved in explaining what it can be used for. When local self-government is taken up, I would say: My whole political commitment is to move power and decisions away from politicians and bureaucrats and over to every individual human being. Then you find no more local self-government than moving power over to each owner of the dwelling. I am concerned that those who have to live with the consequences of a decision are also those who have to make the decision as far as possible. As a liberal, I am in favour of people having as much freedom as possible, and forcing as an instrument rarely or never should occur. The Progress Party believes that ownership is one of the most important rights we inhabitants have. Then it says to itself that in principle the obligation to live is very difficult for us to accept. That's why we're fighting to strengthen basic individual rights, like ownership. Removing the obligation to live has been a very important matter for the Progress Party for years, and I thought it was also an important matter for the Right, but we understand that the Right is whipped in place by the Left and Christian People's Party in this matter as well. Since the right has previously been against housing, we hoped that at least they would be involved in our proposal to have a comprehensive review of the impact of the housing obligation, but unfortunately they do not. It's strange that you don't want to know the consequences of your own policy, but it may be because you're afraid of the outcome. I believe that the housing obligation is old-fashioned, faulty and works against its purpose. The obligation to live is an intervention in ownership, where municipalities create a housing market where prices are artificially kept down. We're not served with a market that gets such a huge amount of radical regulation. We should remember that there are several reasons why people have to sell their property, but when someone sees need to sell, it is morally wrong to pursue a policy that robs the owner of getting the maximum economic gain from the property. We see that housing in some municipalities can quickly become a sleeping cushion. Instead, we want an active policy. People live and vacation where it is attractive to be, and there is much you can do to create attractive residential areas, well-being and housing, to secure their inhabitants and incomes. But coercion and intervention in property is not the right solution. We're disappointed that we're not getting a majority for our proposal today, but we're going to keep the tab high for ownership. We're going to fight on in the next big period to get rid of the obligation of living. I refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2798	The representative Roy Steffensen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2803	If you want to live in housing in municipalities, it's a typical question that it's perfectly possible for municipalities to decide on seagoing services. It is not important whether there are differences between municipalities on this issue, because this is about how to have their communities, as opposed to the matter we just discussed, whether to have the right to logoped or not if you are hit by a blow, where SV believes that there should be no difference whether you live in one municipality or another. There are some issues that are much better suited for differences. Here it is the consideration of the community that is at the heart of the local policy decision that is taken or not taken to live. The reason why housing has been imposed in many places is the consideration of those who live there, and the consideration of business, who need to recruit people who are going to have a home that can live in some attractive areas where there is a large market for some to buy leisure property. And that might be okay -- there's a lot of us who could imagine a nice, white villa in the South, it wouldn't have been against me. But I think it's more important that the municipalities can decide when it comes to those who are going to own some of these central, important resources that the communities are going to have, that if you're going to have that house there, you get to live here. It's of the important things that a municipality needs to decide about. We can discuss whether housing prices in some district municipalities are very low, and that is quite right. But that's not the municipalities we're talking about right now. The municipalities that have imposed a dwelling obligation are those that get an explosion at the price level of leisure properties, and where only those who have a thick wallet can buy a leisure property, while those who are going to live there and, for example, work in kindergarten, as I have done before, will never afford to buy such a dwelling, sail if there is a need for people who are going to be employed in kindergarten or in other types of low-paid workers available. These are decisions that SV believes local authorities are perfectly capable of dealing with maritime issues based on local interests and which do not violate important principles to ensure that there are no differences between municipalities and municipalities, which can deal more with human rights issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2814	The Concession Act is an important instrument in property law in Norway. Therefore, it was important for the Christian People's Party to establish in the Granavolden platform that no further liberalisation should be made in soil and concession law. It also applies to the rules on reduced concession threshold. This proposal by the Progress Party is not about the obligation to live in agriculture, but about the possibility for municipalities to introduce local regulations so that all-year-old dwellings are not used for leisure purposes without a concession from the municipality. The owner can let others live there, but the property must be inhabited, not just on holidays and weekends. The housing challenges in Norway are different. Some places deportation is a problem. Elsewhere it is desired that the inhabitants of the municipality have access to attractive dwellings instead of such dwellings being taken over by leisure users who live there only part of the year or part of the week. As of today there are 42 municipalities – I have black Stortinget 43, but then we have got new numbers, so there are 42 municipalities – that have implemented such local regulations. These are municipalities from all over the country, and many have had regulations for many years. Examples here are Røros, Kragerø and Lindesnes. It shows that many municipalities believe that there is a need for this tool and that the regulation is suitable to address the challenges the municipality is experiencing. I have faith in local self-government. I trust that the municipalities themselves will be able to make good judgements as to whether they need local regulations. I don't think the Storting should take away the local politicians from this tool, and I'm glad that all parties outside the Advance Party agree with me. Nor do I believe that it is unreasonable that the municipalities think anything about which dwellings should be used for all-year-old dwellings and which should be used for leisure homes. This is related, for example, to: the development and exploitation of municipal infrastructure such as school, kindergarten, water, sewerage, etc. It is quite natural that the municipality itself should have the opportunity to participate in and decide on such issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2829	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2834	I like the evolution here. The debate started with 43 municipalities, now we're down to 42, so if we just keep going, we're kind of down to zero during the evening. I've read the letter of reply from the Council of State. It was not possible to mention the relationship to human rights in the letter of reply, because it was not mentioned in the proposal itself. However, it is mentioned in the referral by the members of the Committee from the Progress Party – Article 13 that everyone has the right to move freely and to choose the place of residence within the borders of a State. So I would very much like to have the Council of State's assessment of the obligation to live up to human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2842	I think, first of all, that I don't want to be on a bidding round during the evening to get to zero, because I think this is a matter that is so important to local environments that we actually say something about. So I know that in this Document 8, which is proposed by the representative, reference is made to an NMBU report of 2002. However, it was also a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union that was passed in 2007, which referred to the personal residence of an agricultural property in Denmark, whether this was contrary to human rights. However, the Norwegian rules on housing for agricultural property were adopted in 2009, i.e. following the judgment of the European Court of Justice, and they were considered to be in line with this – there is no contradiction in the matter of housing, it is not contrary to human rights. It is described in what has been done in our own country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2849	I hear the Council of State is talking about human rights being set up against agricultural property. I wonder: does the same assessment apply to what the proposal is actually about, which are recreational properties and dwellings?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2854	Yes, this has been assessed in the same way in respect of the dwelling on properties that are ordinary houses, without an agricultural contract.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2859	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2866	The case concerns Section 7 on the reduced concession limit for built-up property. It's an important paragraph. It is intended to ensure permanent residence in coastal and mountain communities, where there is a very high demand for leisure properties, and it is therefore intended to keep prices down, so that the municipality's own inhabitants are not out of competition by people who want to take ordinary dwellings as leisure homes. So that's the core of the Central Party's policy. In our 100-year tradition, we have insisted that we use the law to govern the content of personal property. We are proud of that, and we have an effective view of it. What's really interesting in this case is the argument of the Progress Party. I've rarely seen it so clearly. Here, the Progress Party argues that personal living is contrary to Article 56 of the EU Treaty – The Progress Party says in most respects that they are against the EU. And as if that weren't enough, they say it's in violation of Article 13 or 17 of the UN Declaration of Human Rights. Thus, one uses both the EU and the UN Declaration of Human Rights against Norway, while one in all other contexts says: No, we need to control the sea more; the Norwegian Parliament must govern the sea. In addition, the argumentation is not comprehensive. It's not right, it doesn't cover the argument, because it's explained in different ways that it's not true. But that makes sense. The Progress Party has argued throughout all years against any concession law and such regulation. I have taken with me the setting from the EEA debate on 29 September 1992. I want to repeat this – the legendary Carl I. Hagen and Fridtjof Frank Gundersen who say that one must have the discriminatory concession provisions lifted. See: ‘When the reforms have not been implemented, this is due to the fact that political press groups have contributed to the failure of the Norwegian authorities to have the courage to implement a rational policy. This will be much easier after Norway has joined the EEA, since the government can then point out that we are obliged by international law to implement liberalisation and non-discrimination. In the opinion of these members, this is a very positive effect of the EEA.’» It's the only thing that remains that the Progress Party has not said in this setting, but they stand for a very clear line. What's interesting is that the Right is not involved, and that's what I'm counting on is the Merit of the Council of State of Bollestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2882	I just have to say that I hear the representative Steffensen from the Progress Party comment on what the Progress Party thinks about housing obligations, and that they believe it strongly and collectively. The progress party had the rapporteur at Håler for many years, and he answered a question about this when he was rapporteur – now he is no longer, for the sake of order: ‘Our location in nearby sea areas and our marine national park make us attractive during the summer. We have a lot of cabins here, and then there's a lot of people who want to live here a few weeks and months in the summer. It goes out on our all-year homes. They want to buy them." Then he continues: ‘Retirement will have serious consequences for the Whaler community. People's already breaking the obligation to live. But an even more serious consequence is the price level that we know arises, the competition for housing that we give to families with children who want to move to Whaler's problems. We need families with children here. Otherwise, we will have an unfortunate social development.’ So the Progress Party rapporteur said that when he was asked about it at the time. It is very clear – I repeat – that the policy of the Progress Party is not linked. In any case, it is not associated with their local trustees out there, who see this in a completely different way from what the Advance Party's big group clearly does. I must also remember, because I heard the representative Mr Steffensen talking about partisans, that, as far as I can remember, the party of progress has been in government for seven years. Nothing happened to this matter then, so it is a little strange that the Progress Party did not choose to use its power on this as they had the chance for so many years. I'm not going to go this anymore, but on Tuesday we had, as said, another debate here. At that time it was not a matter of the fact that the Progress Party would protect local self-government. On Tuesday, they wanted to move all the power to Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2903	There are repeated calls for the abolition of the obligation to provide services. Like the Progress Party, I have great faith in people, and that's precisely because I have faith in the populace – local populace who can make good decisions. What I mean is what's going to happen, and that we should be busy retaining the right for them to assess whether a person wants to take advantage of this possibility of imposing obligations. Obligation is, as I mentioned in my previous post, a major, strong interference in private property rights, and so we in the Right are concerned that we are going to use that possibility with great care. On 15 October 2014, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food submitted a proposal to cancel the concession obligation and the obligation of professional secrecy. This proposal encountered great resistance, and there was no rise in the Stortinget. The government proposed a different proposal, Prop. 92 L for 2016-2017, which led the Stortinget to establish a series of changes relating to the obligation to provide agricultural property or, in fact, to the general right to agricultural property. But, as I said, the concession law basically covers all types of property, and a number of exceptions that apply to this result in most property in Norway not being subject to a concession obligation. I would like to repeat: in this case, it is important and proper to ensure that local self-government is strong, and that the municipalities themselves are allowed to decide whether it is right to impose obligations or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2910	I'm sorry I'm running out of time here, it's getting late in the day, but I want to share some experience from a municipality where I've lived in the last 12 years, i.e., the municipality of Fåder. There's a division of housing, so half of the municipality has a dwelling and half don't have it, after the merger between Nøtterøy and Tjøme. It works pretty well. But there's reason for some nuances here, I think, because it's perfectly obvious that if the purpose is to strengthen the settlement and activity in an area, it's very doubtful whether it's a residential obligation that's the best argument to get to it. I think that then we have to take business development much more seriously and get people to live there for reasons other than low housing prices. There has been a dwelling in Tjøme, where I live, for many decades, and there has been an incredible amount of arguing about it in the municipality. I've been in a fight in the local government, and I've been in a fight in the community, and there's no way what kind of debate this leads to. The obligation to live is not an alpha and omega, because there are so many, many gaps in the obligation to live, which means that I've become more and more skeptical about this. These include: about inheritance, which is perfectly fine. Our house, as a real estate agent estimates has had an increase of 30 p.m., I can dispose of it to my son, and he can live there completely without fulfilling the requirement of living. That's one side of it. On the other hand, many people choose to live in Oslo and buy themselves a house in my area and report moving, and so use the place as a cabin, but so they have registered residence in the municipality. There's also a gap in the law that makes this fall a little bit apart. But, of course, I fully agree that this must be municipally determined. I trust the people who live around me so much that we can figure this out for ourselves. Then Veierland is a good example. They lifted the obligation to live in 2012 – and the result? Yes, housing prices have remained still. There have been several residents. It is also worth including in this debate. And in the recreational home, people now live all the time and have their home offices there. So it's going to be a little bit more nuanced than I think a lot of people have produced it here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2919	The representative Grimstad is today, in many ways, a very good representative of the Left Party, a party that is clear that one in all areas is away from the concession law system. So I think it was a very descriptive and good post that represents the Left today. But I asked for the floor of the representative Eidsheim from the Right. We agree to have faith in the elected representatives, and we agree that one of the elected representatives can take advantage of the possibility of imposing a residence obligation in the municipality under the concession law, where the purpose is better to ensure a permanent residence in residential homes compared to those who want to use them as leisure homes. It is quite obvious that a concession law such as we are talking about now will help to keep the price level of dwellings – or, alternatively, leisure properties – down. It is for the benefit of those who want to live in the municipality, it is for the benefit of the young people who want to enter the housing market in the municipality, and therefore it has relatively broad support in a number of municipalities, both along the coast and in the mountain resort. But what we're discussing is a national law that provides a local opportunity, and what the Progress Party is asking for is that the national concession law be amended. That's what's going on. It's very interesting that the part right now says that that part of the concession law is something you're for. But it's pretty hollow when the same party a short time ago went in to take away the entire concession law. It's not related. But I have to repeat what I have said here several times: there is one reason why the Right has so low a profile in these matters now, and it is the party Christian People's Party, which has received one of its greatest and most important victories – as the Center Party is very grateful for their success – to stop the government partner Right's aggressive campaign to remove the concession law in Norwegian law. It has held this period of government, and I once again thank the party Christian People's Party for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2930	I just want to make some comments. This is an important matter, and in the case of such an opportunity for municipalities to require accommodation, things are never black and white. But it's now that the municipalities have used this regulation to a greater or lesser extent – today, as I said, 42, not 43, are using it. Since 1975, the possibilities of circumventing legislation have been there, just as some take advantage of tax rules and everything possible. Nevertheless, local politicians have found out that even if the possibility of circumventing things exists, it is wise for those who decide locally to have a requirement of living. Some cities, for example, have said they do not want a dead city in winter and a living, dense city in summer with mass tourism in. They want people to live there all year long. I believe that this is an opportunity for our local politicians. So it's not like they're obliged to do it, but for local politicians, this is an opportunity and a toolbox to build the best local environment in the way they think it's important in their municipality. And then it's the people who live there who choose the local politicians they think should be responsible for what's best for their local environment. That's why I think keeping this is an important tool to ensure different local environments, based on the values that each municipality uses. Then there is someone who chooses to say no, and others who say yes, but the possibility window of abuse is always there. But it doesn't justify that we should take away the possibility for that reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2937	I must reiterate to the representative Lundteg that he is an excellent representative of a party who has made up an opinion on what the Left believes and who does not listen to arguments that are put forward, which may be contrary to what he has of prejudice. ‘Don’t trouble me with facts’ is something called. But I have to show that, despite living conditions, the population does not increase in our part of my municipality. It worries me – it worries me a lot – but I do not think that living is the most powerful means of increasing residence. Having said that, I repeat that I believe that the municipality should decide this. It's the people who have to decide on this, and I actually thought that was also a good Central Party policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2945	There have been very good contributions from the representative Grimstad. Although I do not fully agree with the conclusion, it was at least very nuanced, and he drew personal experience. I have my own experience. I was born and raised in a municipality that has lived under obligation since the 1980s. Fortunately, the Progress Party has been given a majority in that municipality in order to hold a referendum on the obligation to live until the autumn. The representative of Lauvås mentioned partiality and whales. Yes, it is quite right that we have some politicians in this party who think other things about things. It's quite natural, it happens in all parties. This is also happening in the Progress Party, and I welcome it. I want there to be a break in the various parties. However, I disagree with the previous rapporteur in Hyler. Among other things, when it is said that many break the law, I believe that this is an argument that the law is wrong, and we should change it. Fear of high prices is also mentioned. Then we're back to what I said in my main post, that I'm also aware that the most likely can be higher housing prices around. But we should remember that there are several reasons why people choose to sell their property. When someone has to sell, I think it's morally wrong that we pursue a policy that robs people of getting maximum financial gain out of their property. Back to some of what the representative Grimstad said. He was talking about business development. I think that's what's the key to creating housing, creating attractive residential areas. One has to bet on business development, on infrastructure, good leisure activities and cultural services to ensure that the municipality is so attractive that people want to live there, not because they feel a duty and have to live there. Unfortunately, today's proposals of the Progress Party are being put to the vote. This is probably one thing where we illustrate that the dividing lines in Norwegian policy go between the Progress Party and the other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2960	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2978	The majority vote first on case No. 9-16 by Mr Stortinget's meeting on Tuesday 23 February, agenda no. 53, but before we go to voting, the representative Petter Eide has asked for the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2983	This concerns proposal No. 19 in Case No. 16 on Tuesday's map, which we're going to vote for. It deals with the merger of police stations in Oslo. The proposal would normally have a majority of SV, the Central Party, the Labour Party and the Progress Party, but we want after the debate to draw up the proposal, because we will come back to the Stortinget with a new and better wording on the same topic, but with the same conclusion. But since it is not allowed to draw proposals according to Storting's Rules of Procedure, I now want to do it a bit funny to recommend that no votes for SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e2988	With the clear explanation of vote, we are going to vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e3000	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Willfred Nordlund on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party proposal No 2, from Stein Erik Lauvås on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 3-6, from Helge André Njåstad on behalf of the Progress Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3–6, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make appropriate proposals to remove the right of objection of the state administrator and the state road authority in municipal planning and land decisions.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that administrative supervision to deal with complaints under municipal planning decisions be placed under the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: «The Government is asked to propose that objections to land matters be raised only on issues of major national importance. Furthermore, the person against whom the objection is raised shall be able to bring this question, if essential, to the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation within a period of six weeks.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to propose that it is not possible to raise objections to plans within the overall planning objectives in force.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e3044	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to identify the concrete needs for increased capacity and competence in the municipal sector in the climate and natural disasters in order to implement the necessary measures such as climate adaptation, environmentally friendly procurement, nature mapping and other measures to cut emissions and preserve the natural environment needed to achieve Norway’s natural and climate objectives.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e3061	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to investigate the limitations and changes that may be made to the right of objection of State bodies and sectoral authorities to municipal planning and land decisions in order to strengthen the autonomy of municipalities in order to increase the ability to govern local development.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e3083	The Right, Socialist Left, Left, Christian People's Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e3102	During the debate, Mr Andersen put forward five proposals on behalf of the Socialist Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to amend the law so that municipalities and county councils have decision-making authority over the school structure and dimensioning of the school offer regardless of whether the offer is private or public.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to amend the law in such a way that municipalities have decision-making authority over nursery facilities and dimensioning, regardless of whether the offer is private or public.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a return to Stortinget with proposals to ensure legal certainty for the municipal sector to set the same quality requirements for private and municipal welfare services, including private schools and kindergartens, and the right to impose higher requirements than national to private enterprises in the same way as for own businesses.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to submit to private enterprises operating publicly funded services the same requirement to comply with public law and the administrative law as public activities and to return to the Stortinget with the necessary proposals to ensure this.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to submit to private enterprises operating publicly funded services the same requirement to comply with the archival laws as public enterprises and to return to the Stortinget with any necessary proposals to ensure this.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e3149	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e3168	During the debate Siri Gåsemyr Staalesen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back with proposals for the loss of citizenship in the interests of fundamental national interests and for such losses to be decided by the Court of Justice.’.» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e3252	The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e3264	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e3278	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e3290	During the debate, Mr Andersen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget at the beginning of May 2021 with an assessment of the need for further extension of the possibility of extended and reinforced introduction programme and extended Norwegian training to address the consequences of covid-19 outbreaks.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e3379	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e3392	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e3406	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e3418	During the debate, Mr Andersen put forward four proposals on behalf of the Socialist Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government requests that all return cases relating to long-term asylum seekers be suspended until an independent review of the foreign student’s practice has been carried out in these cases, including whether the best interests of the child, the length of residence and the humanitarian considerations of the child are weighted in line with the intentions of the legislator. The matters suspended must include persons with a long residence period who have reached the age of 18 after 1 January 2019.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the best interests of the child are adequately weighted in cases of withdrawal of a residence permit, cf. United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, Article 3.’; Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to clarify the legislation on residence permits due to strong human considerations or special ties with the state to ensure that age is given priority in matters relating to young people aged 18 years old but still vulnerable due to their young age and that they are in the care of child protection. Reference is made to the system of child protection with the right to follow-up protection until the age of 25, with effect from January 2021.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to initiate an independent investigation into the applicable immigration regulatory considerations, how these considerations are determined, how they are applied in foreign affairs and how they are weighted against the best interests of the child. The investigation must assess whether the judgement provisions of the legislation take into account non-discrimination and objection in the light of the organisation of the UNE and the independence of the individual head of staff.’;» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e3459	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e3478	During the debate, Karin Andersen put forward three proposals on behalf of the Socialist Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘Decisions to the law amending Law No 15 May 2008 35 on the access of foreigners to the kingdom and their residence here I [[introduction of reasonableness conditions for internal flight]] The Foreign Affairs Act is amended as follows: Paragraph 28 fifth paragraph is replaced by the following: The right of recognition as a refugee referred to in the first subparagraph shall not apply if the foreigner can obtain effective protection in parts of the home Member State other than the territory from which the applicant has fled and it is not unreasonable to refer the applicant to seek protection in those parts of the home Member State. II The law shall enter into force immediately.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to withdraw the instructions of the Foreign Administration for the cessation of refugee status [[GI-03/2019 and GI-05/2020]] Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government requests the practice of cessation of refugee status in line with the UNHCR’s interpretation of the UN Convention on Refugees’. The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e3531	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e3551	Four proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Martin Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 3 and 4, from Petter Eide on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to develop and implement a system of receipts for police use during ID checks.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that all ID-controlled persons receive the receipt upon verification.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e3591	Alternatively, between the setting and the proposals No. 1 and 2 from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the statistics on the ID controls under the Foreign Affairs Act are publicly available and searchable.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that all ID checks are logged, in line with the circular exercise of Foreign Affairs Control by the Police in the territory.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e3622	A total of 23 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Per-Willy Amundsen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2 and 3, from Lene Vågslid on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 4-6, from Per-Willy Amundsen on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the Centre Party proposal No 7, from Lene Vågslid on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 8, from Lene Vågslid on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 9-14, from Per-Willy Amundsen on behalf of the Progress Party the proposals No 15-17 by Jenny Klinge on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 18 and 19, from Petter Eide on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 20–22, from Lene Vågslid on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 23, from Lene Vågslid on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 23, from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Children’s Ombudsman’s recommendations to review and control police missions in child protection matters and to return to Stortinget on an appropriate case.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e3672	There is a vote on proposal No. 22, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to consider the title ‘Near Commissioner’ as a new title for the officers’ positions as an alternative ‘Police Commissioner’.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e3687	There is a vote on proposal No. 21, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure local management at all police stations and officers’ offices.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e3704	There is a vote on proposal No. 20, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to start planning a new police high school and to return to Stortinget in an appropriate way.’ The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e3722	There is a vote on proposal No. 19, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to stop the recent proposals of the Oslo Police Department to the Ministry of Justice and Defence for the merger of police stations in Oslo.’ Based on Petter Eide's explanation of vote, all parties shall vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e3739	There is a vote on proposal No. 18, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to grant a derogation from general arms when the police assist the law in the event of drafts involving children and families with children’. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e3756	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 15-17, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure local management at all police stations and officers’ offices in the form of either the chief of police stations or the senior officer, and to replace the term ‘place of employment’ by the police station or the county office respectively.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the continuation and/or reintroduction of the powers and responsibilities of the Member before the implementation of the near police reform in June 2015, including the officers’ function, the Secretariat of the Conciliation Council and the issue of passports.’; Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals for the reintroduction of the system of the appointment of police officers to officials without annual limit.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e3785	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 10–14, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that all police districts are adequately earmarked with earmarked funds to increase the number of patrols and strengthen their operational police by a minimum of 30 pst. by 1 January 2023.» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the West Unit of Oslo Police District is moved to the Lysak River to provide an accessible and present police force throughout the Oslo Police District.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the Oslo Police District immediately provides for more presence, operational police in areas particularly charged with recriminalisation, and to ensure that police enforcement gives the necessary respect for their community mission.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: «The government is asking the government to start work immediately on the planning of a new Police College to replace current installations in Majorstua. The new school shall be located within the day commuter distance of Oslo and be listed as a competitive building.» Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The decision requests the Government not later than the end of May 2021 to submit the necessary proposals for legislative changes allowing the police to carry out their duties.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e3822	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to make a distinction between law enforcement and prosecution.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e3839	There is a vote on proposal No. Eight, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to set up a selection of strategic leaders in the police, defence and academia to develop a strategic leadership programme in accordance with the model of the Defence Leadership Programmes where the mandate is to develop a current and relevant programme.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e3855	There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to take initiatives to develop a police management platform in the context of the 2025 business strategy.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e3872	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the Progress Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that long-distance police districts are allocated increased resources, while ensuring that they are used to strengthen the police’s maritime service in the district in question, in order to increase police presence and preparedness along the coast.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e3889	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4 and 5 from the Progress Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The budget asks the Government to make the necessary proposals in order to close the Directorate of Police. The tasks and responsibilities of the Directorate should be returned to the Department and transferred to the police districts. It is necessary to carry out an investigation into how such a change is to be implemented.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the process of replacing the title ‘lensman’ with a gender-neutral title is stopped’.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e3911	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘By June 2021, the government is asked to return to the Grand Duchy with concrete measures to strengthen the police’s work against ICT crime.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e3928	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to maintain the target of 200 NC3 employees on Kripos by the end of 2021.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e3946	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for an increase in the number of students admitted to the Swedish Police College to at least 550 students from the fall of 2021.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e3990	Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e4019	The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e4064	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e4088	The President will propose that the minutes be annexed to the statement by the Minister of Justice and Security on the situation of police personnel and emergency. [[The statement was made at the Stortings meeting on 24 October 2019]] – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. We then proceed to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e4102	A total of 19 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Nina Sandberg on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Party of Advancement and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2-7, by Nina Sandberg on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 8-12, from Nina Sandberg on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 13-18, from Roy Steffensen on behalf of the Progress Party proposal No 19, from Mona Fagerås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 19, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with legislative proposals to ensure that students with disabilities who wish to move to an exchange are entitled to temporary derogations from the rules requiring the use of services and services within the territory of the State, even outside the EEA.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e4137	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 13-18, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asked to engage in dialogue with the student institutions with a view to eliminating the preference of foreign students for student housing.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: «The Government asks the Norwegian Government to prioritise Norwegian students in Norway and to investigate and submit necessary proposals to reserve loans and grants from the Loan Fund to Norwegian students.» Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government asks Norwegian students to be given priority in Norway and to investigate and submit necessary proposals to introduce tuition fees for foreign students from the start of the study in the autumn of 2022.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to examine and make the necessary proposals so that the Loan Fund can offer top grants and loans to those students who qualify to study at the world’s leading elite universities.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asked to engage in dialogue with PST and Norwegian higher education and research institutions in order to establish permanent and formalised meeting points between the parties.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: «The government asks the government to recover the financial costs of achieving the objectives of the Notice. St. 7 by 2030.» [[2020-2021]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e4180	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8-12, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess the effects of the foreign residence pay-out by the duration of the funding system for universities and higher education institutions and to ensure that professional training is maintained without establishing a general incentive for shorter stays.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a distinction to be made between shorter and longer stays abroad in student mobility statistics.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out a comprehensive review of economic and legal barriers for foreign students and to return to the Stortinget with proposals for simplification.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to review the Language Grant Code through the Loan Fund and to ensure a practice that serves the purpose.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make systematic use of the qualifications of refugees in Norway.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e4220	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2–7, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose adjustments to the Panorama Strategy and the plan for a new quota programme, in order to ensure greater diversity in incoming and outgoing student mobility’.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to launch a research project on student mobility among students with disabilities and to assign the Loan Fund responsibility for presenting annual national mobility statistics to this student group.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to continue and strengthen the ‘Students at Risk’ programme and to make it permanent in the long term and to facilitate the ‘Scholars at Risk’ network.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to maintain and ensure the free principle for international students in Norway.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to return to Stortinget with a plan for more internationalisation in primary, secondary and higher vocational education.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate, in an appropriate manner, the exchange and internationalisation of researchers in the doctoral studies.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e4266	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for sound funding mechanisms for study stays abroad to ensure equal access regardless of economic background — also to highly ranked universities.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The centre party has notified subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e4310	The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e4360	All in all, seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-5, by Terje Halleland on behalf of the Progress Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 6 and 7, from Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6 and 7 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government requested a step-by-step introduction of Tier II and III requirements for the entire Norwegian coast, not only the World Heritage fjords and come back to the Stortinget on a case-by-case basis, with the aim of introducing requirements for the whole coast from no later than 2025. The requirements shall apply irrespective of the year of construction of ships and to all ships above 1000 gross tonnage.’» Proposal No. 7 sounds: «The Government is asked to draw up various proposals for support schemes for companies which impose zero-emission requirements on the transport of goods and which result in the putting into service of new technologies.» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e4393	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3–5, from the Progress Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to make the necessary adjustments to the regulations on environmental safety for ships and mobile devices and to ensure the transport of stones by ship from the mineral industry.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to exempt the transport of stone by ship from the mineral industry from the implementation of requirements and regulations for the discharge of cruise ships and other maritime traffic in tourist fjords.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide exceptional provisions that continue to ensure the business life of the world heritage shipping activities and to maintain mining operations in the area.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e4422	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Progress Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to postpone the requirement of zero emissions in the world heritage fjords until 2030’.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to engage in dialogue with the cruise companies and the supplier industry in order to find good and innovative solutions that effectively protect the environment in the long term.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e4459	The Party of Advancement and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e4478	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Tellef Inge Mørland on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 3-6, by Tellef Inge Mørland on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 7, by Kari Kjønaas Kjos, on behalf of the Progress Party proposal No 8, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Center Party There is a vote on proposal No. Eight, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests a review of the LAR scheme with a view to strengthening the individual’s right to adapted follow-up, as well as increasing the focus on the rehabilitation part of the LAR, including providing more facilities for decommissioning within the LAR.’ The Socialist Left and Red have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e4510	There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to propose changes to the financing of drug addicts which ensure that follow-up treatment is also funded by the State.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e4527	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3–5, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a funding key to be provided by the government to allocate the costs of post-employment protection to those with drug problems between the country and the municipality.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government, in cooperation with the KS, is asked to ensure that both the addict and the dependant are guaranteed a drug coordinator to whom they can contact in the municipality.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a review of the LAR scheme with a view to strengthening the individual’s right to adapted follow-up, inter alia, through the inclusion of several medicinal products in the scheme and increasing the focus on the rehabilitation component of LAR, including the establishment of multiple SPE offers.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e4556	There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks for the treatment of NOU 2019:26 Rusreform – from punishment to help, start work on a treatment reform for drug addicts.’ The Central Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e4574	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that providers of diurnal care in the multidisciplinary specialised treatment of drug problems ensure that follow-up is provided after treatment. The follow-up shall aim at return to normal working life, education or other activity and shall be carried out in cooperation with the municipality and the user himself.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that healthcare is organised in such a way as to ensure the necessary prevention and treatment of somatic diseases for patients with drug and mental illness and to provide adequate information to the public.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e4608	The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e4627	The Right Party, the Center Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e4646	In the course of the debate, all nine proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-7, by Tellef Inge Mørland on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 8, from Tellef Inge Mørland on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 9, from Kjersti Top on behalf of the Center Party There is a vote on proposal No. 9 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the public authorities to clarify the possibility of detention by coercion for up to three months in a separate day-care establishment if a person is in the process of rushing into a way that puts life and health at critical risk, apply the Health and Welfare Act § 10-2.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e4673	There is a vote on proposal No. 8, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that all those with drug problems in prison are offered treatment. It is requested that the government establish detention centres in all prisons.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e4690	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–7, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to return to Stortinget with an obliging escalation plan for mental health protection.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a plan for stepping up the provision of health services in Norwegian prisons, which includes, among other things, the establishment of an area function for mental health protection and drug substitution units/stifiner units in all prisons.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that all healthcare providers establish procedures for the alerting of the local health service when outsourcing an overdose patient, suicide attempt or possible attempted suicide.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to disburse and implement an information and warning system that can be used between agencies that treat or follow people with severe physical and mental disorders for shorter or longer periods of time. [[ROP]] Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to clarify the division of tasks and responsibilities between health professionals, the municipal health services and other municipal services for users and patients with severe physical and mental disorders and who are in frequent contact with the auxiliaries.’ [[ROP]] Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a survey of the types of housing that local authorities offer to people with severe disorders and mental disorders. [[ROP]] Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The size requests the establishment of multiple ROP sites in multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment [[TSB]] The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e4772	The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e4791	During the debate, Mr Moflag tabled four proposals on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government requests that all restrictions on the number of stoma equipment introduced on 1 January 2020 be lifted immediately.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to consider changing the practice when making changes to the prescription so that changes affecting patients’ access to equipment and medicines are made by means of a change of prescription, rather than a circular, to ensure that professionals and patient organisations are able to express themselves.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that all stomi-operatives receive the necessary follow-up, guidance and information and to inform the Storting in an appropriate manner.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess the overall changes made to medical consumables and their impact on the quality of life and participation of users and to promote the necessary changes.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up. The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e4842	In the course of the debate, a total of five proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Hege Haukeland Liadal on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 2, by Kari Kjønaas Kjos, on behalf of the Progress Party the proposals No 3-5, by Nicholas Wilkinson, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3–5, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government on behalf of the State to make a public complaint to trans-persons who, until 1 July 2016, were unable to change legal gender unless they had the psychiatric diagnosis of transsexualism and underwent irreversible sterilisation.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to establish a compensation scheme for those who have had to undergo irreversible sterilisation interventions in connection with changes in legal gender.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose the introduction of a third legal gender category.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e4883	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to evaluate law on legal gender change in order to ensure that the amendment does not have a device that may have had unintended consequences.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e4898	There is a vote on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to consider a third gender category.’ The Greens and Reds have announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e4922	Those who vote against are asked to stand up. – No one has stood up and the Committee’s position is deemed to have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e4927	That's wrong. The party of progress is not in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e4932	The progress game has to be against the setting. So let's do that again.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e4951	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Morten Stordalen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Morten Stordalen on behalf of the Progress Party proposal No 3, from Hege Haukeland Liadal on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to return to the Storting in an appropriate way to ensure that children under the age of 16 can receive free visual inspection, just as it is free of charge for children under the age of 16 in the examination and treatment of regular and public clinics.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e4978	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to provide a firm practice in all health establishments, where all persons admitted after a stroke are examined for visual function.’ The Labour Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e4995	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to assess the public offer and professional cooperation in the field of child visual and visual inspection, including the need for more eye specialists and, where appropriate, the use of opticians, where appropriate, as part of the public offer.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e5019	The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e5038	During the debate, Mr Kjønaas Kjos put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to propose amendments to Section 4-1, first paragraph, point (a) of the Health and Welfare Act, so that the individual patient or user is given a comprehensive and coordinated health and care service provision, children are not resident in nursing homes contrary to the wishes of the families and the best interests of the child, and patients between 18 and 49 years of age are not resident in a hospital in breach of their own wishes or of their own wishes.» The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e5070	Right, Christian People's Party and Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e5090	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Nicholas Wilkinson on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Decisions to the law amending the Act on Health and Care Services I In Law No 24 June 2011 30 on municipal health and care services n.e.c. the following amendment shall be made: [[(requirement of logoped in all municipalities):]] In order to fulfil the responsibility under § 3-1, the municipality must be linked to a doctor, a nurse, a physiotherapist, a midwife, a nurse, an ergot therapist, a therapist and a psychologist. II The law shall come into force from the time of the king's judgment."
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e5141	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to take urgent action for the Stortinget to strengthen the logoing services in the municipalities, including proposals for the revision of sections 5 to 10 of the People’s Security Act and its regulations, in line with the recommendations of the Health Directorate.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e5165	During the debate, Mr Steffensen put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose the necessary changes to the laws so that the residential and recreational housing obligation is abolished.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a comprehensive review of the impact of the housing obligation on the districts in which it is established and for municipalities to introduce more accurate relocation measures to increase the number of residents without confiscating private property.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e5196	Before we go to the individual minutes, the President will point out that the Stortinget has today received a special announcement to the Stortinget from the Swedish Intelligence, Surveillance and Security Committee on classified information, Document 7:2 for 2020-2021. The Presidency now encourages the oral suspension of the establishment of a special committee under Section 18 of the Storting Rules of Procedure to deal with the matter. It is proposed that the Committee be composed of the members of the Control and Constitutional Committee and the representatives of Hans Fredrik Grovevan, Une Bastholm and Bjørnar Moxnes. Does anyone disagree with this proposal? – It does not seem so, and it is considered unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-25.ana.ud372e5253	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
