ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e42	An application for welfare leave for the representative of Geir Pollestad has been submitted by the Centre Party’s Group on 17 and 18 June. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Hanne Marte Vatnaland, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e62	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting continues, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e78	I would like to thank you for the opportunity to talk about the animal welfare challenges in the pig industry. Animal welfare is a very important theme for this government and a theme I as Minister of Agriculture and Food take very seriously. We have worked intensively to clean up, and the work is still in progress. I know that we are not in goal, and that there are farmers who are following. At the same time, I believe that the images we have seen in the media recently are not comprehensive for Norwegian pig production. Food surveillance means the same thing. I have asked to explain the matter here in Stortinget today. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food first became familiar with the welfare challenges of the pig industry through the Food Authority’s surveillance campaign on piglets in Rogaland in the period 2017-2018. I had my first meeting with the industry in June 2019, and we've had several meetings on how to solve these challenges. When problems are identified, it is important that those responsible meet together to find the best solutions. In January 2018, an overall meat industry decided to establish its own animal welfare programme for piglets. From 1 July 2019 all herd types, including those with sows, were included in the programme. In June 2020, participation in this animal welfare programme was included in the regulation on the holding of pigs, i.e. made mandatory. The programme now includes all crew types and 99 pst. of all pigs slaughtered are included in this. Animal welfare programmes are improvement tools. The programmes provide a framework for systematic work on documentation and improvement of animal welfare in livestock. The welfare challenges identified by the Food Authority and the conditions demonstrated by the NRC show different breaches of the current legislation. Animal welfare programmes make it easier to catch farmers who break a code. This means that when the legislation is followed it will, as a logical consequence, significantly increase animal welfare from the conditions found. Regular visits by a veterinarian are an important instrument in the animal welfare programme. The number of visits depends on the number of animals delivered for slaughter per year or the number of piglets sold. At least one to three times a year, the importance of animal welfare parameters shall be reviewed by the veterinarian and the producer. Since the entry into force of the animal welfare programme, it has been implemented approximately. 7000 veterinary advisory visits. This, therefore, comes in addition to regular veterinary visits, the extensive surveillance programmes that the authorities have against infectious diseases in the porcine population, and regular surveillance visits from the Food Safety Authority. The animal welfare programme is still relatively new and there is not yet a full impact of the programme in all herds. The programme must have time to work before we can draw conclusions. Nevertheless, we see signs of good performance: for example, meat inspection statistics show a reduction in the incidence of tail ulcers from 9 pst. in 2017 to 3 pst. today. This is a recognised animal welfare indicator that shows that we are on the right track, even though some are still following. We all know that it is not possible to prevent events happening, either through official supervision or through industry surveillance. That's why we have to work to get fewer events like this. We must then have good systems and preventive measures. That's where the solution lies. The animal welfare programme is precisely about systematic prevention, but also about the follow-up of incidents when they occur. What is certain is that every pig has its own value. A pig suffering shall be properly treated at the proper time or killed in a proper manner. Sick, helpless pigs that cannot defend themselves against others shall not be in bed with other pigs. In the same way as prevention, follow-up work must also be systematised. We're doing this through constantly improved control systems. Extended disease registration in meat inspection, food chain information and health pig are examples of this. The systems enable us to follow developments closely. Food surveillance will be able to react as soon as registrations move in the wrong direction. At the same time, there is a great potential for sharing more data. It can contribute to increased knowledge and regulatory experience in the industry and thus lead to better animal welfare. The control systems also allow the industry itself to tighten up. The industry has warned that from 1 January 2022 they will use extended disease registration in slaughterhouses as a basis for economic features where the presence of selected diagnostics is too high in a herd. We see that the system is working. Several problematic animal husbandry has been closed, both via slaughterhouses themselves and as a result of the follow-up of the Food Safety Authority. It shows that a systematic approach of common commitment, where everyone moves in the same direction, is the way to go. Food surveillance is now implementing a national animal welfare surveillance campaign in all types of pig herds. The oversight campaign includes unannounced oversight of 600 flocks. It's actually a necessary number to be able to say something representative of animal welfare in an incredibly wide industry. This survey is the largest ever carried out by the pig industry. That's how we can get a proper picture of the state of the industry and the effect of the measures we've put in. If we are to raise the welfare of pigs, we are dependent on everyone taking their share of responsibility. Clearly, each farmer is responsible for the welfare of his own animals. The industry must take its responsibility for the follow-up of its farmers through, for example: the animal welfare programme. Food surveillance is responsible for the enforcement and enforcement of the legislation. Animal welfare is a continuous process that all stages still need to prioritise and improve. Research shows that the farmer is the main single factor in the welfare of the animals, and regardless of how animals are housed. So how do we influence and change attitudes? At least we can't do it through more frequent supervision or an increase in the number of paragraphs and penalties. The participation of all pig producers in the animal welfare programme and the course on animal welfare provide a systematic opportunity for improvement. The industry has also developed an e-learning course providing basic knowledge of pig welfare for all producers and smokers. More than 5000 course fees have been sold since 2019. The next thing on the stairs is a series of courses for the veterinarians to follow up the animal welfare programme. The veterinary course has begun this fall. We are therefore in the process of increasing the competence of both the farmer, the audit firm and the veterinarian. Visits by outsiders can prevent house blindness by looking at the animal body with fresh and other eyes. At the same time, it will provide new skills and attitudes through discussion between equals. This may be the most important part of the work on the change of attitude that the industry is undergoing. Then, of course, the authorities should assume their responsibilities. Some people will always argue that the legislation is not good enough and that therefore the well-being cannot be good enough. But we must remember that the Food Authority manages one of the most stringent animal welfare legislation in the world. Supervision is nationwide, and they have extensive powers. By means of the meat inspection, the Food Safety Authority receives information from the slaughter of each animal. The Food Safety Authority has been working in recent years to put in place systems to capture the most serious issues. This is to ensure that resources are used where the greatest need exists. Food surveillance has also increased the use of unannounced supervision. Fresh figures from this year's first tertiary show that about two thirds of all pig inspections are now unannounced. Since 2019, the Food Authority has been working for a more systematic follow-up of chronic poor animal husbandry, with the aim of achieving more rapid improvement or closure. But such matters are demanding and underline the dilemma of the authorities. Sometimes the Food Authority is criticized for being too strict, sometimes not being strict enough. They can rarely with the law go straight to the most intrusive instruments. The farmer must be given the opportunity to rectify. We can't just shut down farms right away. Some recent legal cases, where the Food Safety Authority considered the offences to be very serious, have shown that the abolition of animal husbandry and the prohibition of keeping animals are not always ‘proportional’ in the eyes of justice. The Food Authority is working to get the most out of the Stortinget framework, and they are therefore focusing on focusing their efforts on the most serious issues. Some of the criticisms that have been addressed to the Food Authority relate to the decrease in the number of inspections in recent years. In 2019 there were 574 inspections in pig flocks, while in 2020 there were 393 inspections. The decline is mainly due to the coronary apathy, but also to a guided development by the Food Authority in which they have a system to ensure that they capture the most serious issues. At the same time, the Corona situation has led to a faster development of new digital supervisory concepts than would otherwise have been the case. The Food Safety Authority is constantly criticising the quality of the job they are doing. As late as 2019, the supervisory work of the Food Safety Authority was subject to independent scrutiny. Since then, extensive improvements have been made in several areas of the management of supervision. But we have to remember that improvement and change work takes time. I have close contact with the Executive Director of the Food Safety Authority on the follow-up of the findings from the investigation. I know that someone has suggested setting up a completely new supervision, a so-called animal supervision. In this context, I would like to remind you that animal welfare is an important part of a much larger whole. There is a strong link between animal welfare, animal health, food safety and public health. The term ‘One health, one medicine’ has gradually been used to show how the different disciplines are woven together into a biological unit — one health. One approach to health has proved to be essential in order to ensure animal and public health, food safety and to combat the increasingly global threat of antimicrobial resistance and zoonotic pandemics. It's a threat to all of us. Norwegian and European food management is based on the fundamental view that food security is the result of the overall impact on the journey from fjord to land. The task of the Food Safety Authority is to see the context, monitor and keep an overview of the state, be present throughout the food chain, and most of all where the risk is greatest. Breaking this chain by shifting an important term can have a major impact on the ability of the authorities to solve this task. I also believe that it can be very resource-intensive and therefore a significant socio-economic step forward to separate out a separate animal supervision. Animal welfare is a very important theme for me as Minister of Agriculture and Food, and this is a topic I take most seriously. I am pleased that the whole industry is united and actively involved in this important effort to address the welfare systems of the pig industry. I feel confident that together we will be able to clean up. We have many good farmers who are really happy in their animals and work hard to make the animals healthy and well. I would like to conclude by saying that the development of animal welfare in Norway has been going on for a long time. We're talking about decades of research and development that's given us a knowledge-based code. Knowledge has been crucial, and we have made improvements along the way, such as: prohibition of halecupping, requirements for castration by a veterinarian and environmental coverage. Further knowledge has emerged and legislation is under development. It's always going to be like that. I believe that the time is now ripe to start a work with a new, great animal welfare message. The previous animal welfare report was presented by the Bondevik II government, almost 20 years ago. There have been several changes in the legislation since the previous notification, and I think it is right that we take a new thorough review of all animal husbandry and welfare in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e135	The President will now, according to the Rules of Procedure of the Storting § 45, open a short comment round limited to one post of up to 5 minutes from each party group and a final statement from the Council of State. The first speaker is Terje Aasland.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e142	There is no doubt that it is the farmer's duty to make sure that the animals are well and that animal welfare is good. But at the same time, it is important to stress that it is the responsibility of the government to ensure that the farmer fulfills his duty, that laws and regulations are followed, and that it is actually good animal welfare. A question that is relevant to ask is: Does the Minister for Agriculture have an overview that all pig producers around the country can actually follow the animal welfare and the rules set? There is a significant question in this. The most important institution to follow up precisely this legislation is the Food Authority. It is the prime tool of the Minister of Agriculture to ensure and ensure that animal welfare is available and that laws and regulations are followed. It has now been two years since the first rough revelation and the documentary related to it came through the NRK. There were atrocities and totally unacceptable conditions at the time in Norwegian pig-fowl, and then again: a new detection of atrocities and animal tragedy that are totally unacceptable. There are animals that live on concrete, in their own faeces, with large open wounds and with bitten tails. It is not worth Norwegian food production, and it is the responsibility of the Minister of Agriculture to ensure that the framework is such that that tragedy does not take place. There are images that hurt and that hurt. I hear through the statement by the Minister of Agriculture about what there is of intentions, but no concrete, clear action on how to deal with the problem – none! I think there are quite alarming clarifications that come through the documentary and the review NRK has done by the system that fails the pigs, where there are over 200 breaches of the rules in Norwegian poultry. That's the best picture we have that critically goes into and analyzes the situation. There's no consequences, there's little documentation, there's no overall overview of your own decisions in the Food Authority, and there's a lot of unresolved issues. So it's really pretty bad, what's lying there, very bad. We can read that the Food Authority, for example: So the pigs on a farm didn't get enough water to drink. It should be a simple problem to solve, and the Food Agency gave them one month to remedy this situation. The NRK has been through and seen 617 days later. When the NRK got an insight into the matter again, it was still not resolved. Why? Why should pigs go without water, without the Food Safety Authority following instructions that have already been given? It is completely incomprehensible, and I do not hear that the Minister of Agriculture has a clear understanding of how she is going to make the Food Safety Authority work in its actual role. It's alarming. Another thing is that the Food Authority rarely comes unannounced. I hear what the Council of State says, that two out of three oversights happen unannounced, but in the NRK coverage, it says that in seven out of ten cases they alert the farmer before they come to visit. Then it might be better afterwards, but it's too little supervision at the same time. We have to have a great deal of confidence in Norwegian food production, and basically we have. Therefore, such cases must be avoided. Therefore, the Minister of Agriculture must take his responsibility, so that she actually ensures that the situation is immediately checked and followed up by the Food Safety Authority — that without delay, one ensures that the imposed requirements are actually implemented, and that agriculture and pig producers actually have a framework that enables them to comply with the requirements imposed. There are two essential tasks which lie with the Minister of Agriculture. This is a very serious situation. I thank you for the presentation, but I have a big question about what is going to happen in the continuation of the approach of the Minister of Agriculture. We've seen eight years of down-priority of the Food Authority. We now know that it has consequences. In two years, since the last disclosure, the government has unfortunately done too little. It's very critical.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e167	Thank you to the Minister for Agriculture and Food for a good presentation. We in the Right Agricultural Network were shaken after the NRK programme last Saturday. If the documentation we see in the programme is correct, then there are 28 farms where critical animal welfare conditions are revealed. This cannot be explained by single events. So we also know that most pig farmers are serious. We have 2,000 pig farmers here to land. But the program we saw shows that it is necessary to take new action. The rules for holding pigs are clear and do not allow for the kind of pig team that we saw in the program. Responsibility lies primarily with the industry itself. Any pig farmer, and not least the farmers' organisations and the food industry, must take this very seriously. We also see that it is necessary to get the Food Safety Authority even closer to the industry. Therefore, it is good that the Food Authority has already increased its unannounced oversight. Totally fresh numbers from the first tertiary show that about two thirds of inspections are now unannounced. It's a proper development to find out what the situation really is. With the Right in Government, we have also established an animal police force. In all the counties of the country, we want to scale it, because this focuses on the fact that animal abuse against both farmed animals and pets is very serious and totally unacceptable. Cooperation between the police and the Food Authority is now helping to resolve fewer animal crime cases. It is now important that the police also connect to this case and investigate whether there are criminal cases around the pig team we have seen here. A journalist in the Address Paper last week wrote that if part of the pig industry does not get worse now, it will affect everyone who drives pigs. I very much agree with that. It is very good that the Minister of Agriculture and Food takes the matter very seriously. I very much disagree with the description that the representative of Aasland uses from here today's pulpit. We have an agricultural and food minister who really takes this seriously. Prevention is most important of all, but I think it is unfortunately also necessary to develop the whip in this context. What we in the Right raised at our national meeting a few weeks ago is that we actually need to increase the penalties for gross infringements of the Animal Welfare Act, and that the animal owners who do not comply with the laws following a violation of the law should be able to more easily be deprived of animals and refused to operate. That animals have to feel good is a very basic value. At the same time, there is a competitive advantage for Norwegian agriculture that we really need to take care of. As I said at the outset, animal welfare in Norway is initially very high, and there is a great deal of attention to it over many, many years, not least during this government. NRK's program entry last Saturday shows that it is still necessary to take new action.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e188	It was bad to see the pictures that were shown on the NRK just a week ago. Animals shall be well treated and well treated. After all, it's all about living creatures. Animals cannot live under such conditions as we saw on the screen. Compliance with the legislation is primarily the responsibility of the farmer. It has obviously failed in part of the farms that operate with pigs. It is primarily the person who commits a crime that must be held responsible, and it is the farmer who is responsible when the animal welfare code is not followed. But it's not that you can take a whole diet, as I now see that it's going to happen in the debate in society. We believe that a lower threshold must be considered to deprive farmers of the right to drive. There is no human right to drive animals. If you do not take care of the animals, and if you abuse them, you should not have animals. This is in addition a consumer case. We see clear and strong responses to NRK’s consumer programme. Norwegian consumers are used to thinking that the food we eat is world-class both in terms of quality, use of chemicals and antibiotics and not least in terms of animal welfare. We should be sure that our food is produced in a good way, but safety should not be based on good marketing alone. One must tolerate the meeting with the realities. It has not happened in this case. For the Advancement Party, good animal welfare is a matter of heart. In our time of government, while we were responsible for agricultural policy, the animal police system was introduced. In 2015, when Sylvi Listhaug was Minister of Agriculture and Food, the first pilot project was launched, in South Trondelag. Later, the scheme has been extended to several regions. The evaluation carried out by the Animal Police in 2018 shows that efforts to combat animal welfare crime have improved significantly, with faster reports of animal crime, better documentation and stricter criminal charges. However, we still have a way to go, and these cases are examples of how the system should be strengthened, not weakened, as some claim and believe. The Progress Party believes that we need an operational animal police force across the country to ensure animal welfare. We also want to increase the penalties for violence and assault on animals. In addition, it is important that we have a functioning food monitoring system with the knowledge needed to carry out inspections, as well as any follow-up and guidance for those manufacturers who need it. In recent years, we have experienced examples of the opposite. We in the Progress Party want a reform of the Food Authority where clear demands are made for management, organisation and responsibilities. Inspectors need more professional competence and experience to provide good advice and guidance. The most important thing, however, is that the beautiful words we all express in this Chamber in this serious matter are actually followed up with action.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e203	There is no doubt that the images behind today's distribution are unpleasant images to see and so one does not want it. However, I would like to thank the Council of State for giving me an idea that a person is doing a lot of business, and that the industry is working actively on this. It's a big job, and one is far from the goal. I believe that there must be cooperation with this aim, where all contribute: the farmer, the slaughterhouse, veterinarians, supervisory authorities, professional authorities, etc., because we would like to have a Norwegian pig industry. We do not accept animal welfare by shutting down a Norwegian pig industry. We want a Norwegian pig industry where animal welfare is good. So it often happens in this kind of case that there is a demand for legislation to be tightened up. However, when the legislation is broken, it is primarily in the follow-up to legislation and enforcement that efforts need to be put in place. A little anxiety around the whole frame around this case: For the Center Party, it is important that enforcement of the Code is a public responsibility. Then we have to make sure that the Food Authority is able to carry out that task and that they can carry out the task in a way that gives confidence both in the population and in the industry. With what we've seen in this case, where the starting point for our discussion is actionists who have a view of Norwegian animal husbandry that at least I don't share, it becomes demanding. I don't want to make this a discussion about methodology, but I think it shouldn't be the most extreme animal welfare actionists that set the standard for the debate on animal welfare. I would also like to say that no matter what role one has in society, a certain one should see — either legal or illegal — a violation of the law, both morally and ethically notifying the Food Authority of what one has known. I also hope that, in the future, journalistic work will be done by journalists who themselves enter and look at different situations in Norwegian agriculture. I think the picture that we see and have been presented is not representative. I think Norwegian agriculture has everything to say that people around Norway get to see what it's like on a normal garden, and how the animals do it there. It requires journalists to get out of their office chair and not sit and wait for others to do the job for them. I would also like to inform you that there are good reasons for getting a big message about animal welfare, and I look forward to it. The fact that she is knowledge-based, evidence-based, assumes that we want Norwegian agriculture in the future, too, is very, very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e216	First of all, Mr Pollestad, who believes that there are no actionists who are going to put the agenda in any way, it is not the ones who are going to check: we can agree on that. But you have to ask yourself what had happened without the activists, without the revelations, without the NRK – now twice. That question I think the representative Pollestad should reflect on. We've got one disclosure after another, and now we just have to say that enough is enough, this is no longer going on. SV are friends of Norwegian agriculture, it knows the hall here, and it's probably friends you should listen to criticism from, isn't it? It is good that the Council of State now alerts a big message, I believe that, and I also believe that the Council of State sincerely wants to take some action now, but she has had information for a long time to deal with earlier. So it's been two years since we had the NRK Focus Documentary on the Secrets of the Pig Industry. I remember an answer to one of my questions, which the Council of State gave after these first revelations. Then she said, ‘I will follow closely the situation in Norwegian pig holdings until we see that the measures will have a lasting effect.’ There is little to suggest that she has followed very well. Do you want me to believe her this time? Yes, I choose to do so, but I think she now must be able to take some immediate grip and some structural grip. Firstly, in the opinion of the Swedish authorities, food supervision should have been divided into animal supervision and food supervision. We have to have dedicated animal supervision, give them extra resources, they need to be strengthened so that the situations we have seen can be avoided. We believe that a professional environment around animal supervision would be much better: better building up the professional environment, better exchange of professional ideas and controls. The National Audit Office's report in the autumn of 2019 showed that things are not being followed up well enough, and that animals are suffering unnecessarily for a long time. The chronically poor animal husbandry closure requirement averages seven years – seven years. Does it take such a long time for other infringements of Norwegian law — seven years? The very few of the around 12,000 concerns messages per year lead to inspections of the Food Safety Authority. That's about. 10 pst. in the following year, and still too many inspections have been notified in advance. I record that the Council of State informs me that in the new action there will be unannounced supervision. I'm very happy about that. The Nortura manager now says clearly that the Food Authority needs more resources in order to carry out a lot of unannounced supervision. That's good, too. In addition, a large number of cases are followed up and closed after the pig farmer reports that everything is on his care. We can imagine a parallel: think if we had not had speed controls, but the driver had to report that he had driven at the right speed. Man is a human being, we have to be careful, we have to keep an eye on it, it has to control it. It is true that it is the farmer's seaman who is responsible for a good animal husbandry, and I hope that good pig farmers now sail to address this problem and in some way get rid of these rotten apples in the basket. The peasants are not served with a bad reputation, not least in the situation they are now in, with payroll, poor working conditions, intense sympathy for a fair peasant revolt. But we can help the farmer by taking structural grips, grips that will serve both the animal welfare and the farmer's sail. We have to recognise how strong demands it has become for efficiency and low prices. We need to see this whole issue in the light of increased concession limits, low agricultural prices, low incomes in agriculture and the farm-holding system. That is why SV is also bringing this topic into the discussion of the agricultural situation here in the Chamber later today. Nor do we exclude a revision of the animal husbandry regulations. Good animal welfare where an adult pig has less than one square meter to move on is almost hopeless, then you have to be a magician. Now the whole chain has to take hold, and the whole chain from pawn to table has to be reviewed. There shall be no swine fever in the Norwegian pig industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e238	The pictures that we saw last week on the screen in the NRK report were frightening. The situation was not good, and a number of issues were raised. I'm not going to go into how this is revealed, because it's in any case revealed. That's not the problem in many ways. What's the issue is how animal welfare is. I thank the Council of State for a good and thorough presentation. There's no doubt that animals are going to be fine. Animals have a self-value. We have a number of control systems — everything from the veterinarians who are on the farms initially, who are inside and visiting the herds, to the Food Authority and the slaughterhouses. To the seventh and last, the farmer has to follow up on this. It's been mapped. Nevertheless, this is not good enough. I am absolutely sure that good animal welfare is good for the animal, but not least it is good for the farmer. The interaction between the authorities and the peasants, because I believe in interaction, is important in this. We can have as much supervision as we want, but we have to have that interaction with animals in focus. It is worth noting that the Food Safety Authority needs to have a consistent practice when carrying out checks and supervision, for consistent practice, not least with a good professional standard, is particularly important. Yes, I think that's improvement potential in terms of space in both buckets, mats, litter and not least environmental reach, and I think that's something that needs to come. I think we have to get even neater and even more proficient, but right through that interaction, I think there are opportunities to achieve goals. Because someone really has to play with the consumer, it's the pig industry. What is good for the consumer is that we ensure good animal welfare. That's why we can't have it the way it was shown in the NRK report. It's got to move forward. It will be good for the animals, it will be good for the consumer, and not least it will be good for the farmer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e247	One of the disadvantages of representing a small party is that one often comes down on the list of speakers, and that many of the good points have already been taken. So I'm not going to repeat things that have already come from the pulpit today, except to stress that for us in the Christian People's Party, too, the shocking images we've seen. It is totally unacceptable that Norwegian farmers treat animals in this way. Such conditions have to be severely reduced, and we expect that producers who break all rules of good animal welfare in this way will not be able to supply slaughter animals to companies in the food industry. It is also in line with commitments such as: Nortura has dealt with consumers. I am also pleased that the Minister for Agriculture and Food is forward-looking and is taking this into account. She has already announced that there will be a big message about animal welfare. It's high time. The last time that happened, it was under the Bondevik II government. It is also important when first putting animal welfare on the agenda, that one then broadens the debate to include animal welfare in other parts of agriculture, including pet animals. The Council of State has also announced a review of laws and regulations in order to extend, if necessary, the mandate of the Food Safety Authority to carry out controls. It is a relationship that has not been affected in the debate today, and which we in the Christian People's Party actually believe is important, and which should also be a theme of that big message. We have to ask ourselves: what is the reason when one sees such gross violations of animal welfare happening? Control is important, it is important to have a functioning regulatory framework, but what is the reason behind it? Unfortunately, too often it turns out that when the large animal thrushes are exposed, there are also great personal tragedies behind those conditions. It's people who are struggling on the personal level. It could be psychiatry involved. Therefore, it is also very important to raise questions about health, environmental and safety work in Norwegian agriculture. We know that Norwegian Agricultural Advisory has been given that task – and is doing an important job – but we should remember that being a farmer is a lonely profession. It is a professional community that has gradually become smaller, and where it is few to be able to confer with, conversation with, on both the joys and challenges of the profession. So our hope is that health, environment and security, seeing the farmer who is struggling, at such an early stage that that kind of tragedy can be averted, must also be an important part of the work to be done now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e256	I would like to thank the Council of State for its presentation. NRK’s new pictures from Norwegian pighouses show that there are still serious crimes and animal plagues in Norwegian pig holdings – such as sick and injured animals that do not receive follow-up, pigs that are watering in their own faeces, and sows that are so crowded that they do not have the opportunity to turn around. It's deeply despairing. The impression of people in the country now is that the Norwegian pig population is not good. We go into a barbecue season, and consumers wonder if they can actually eat grill food with a good conscience, because this is totally unacceptable. Isn't it time to go through all the feathers? It would have been good both for animals and for the confidence in Norwegian agriculture and the farmers. We need a massive supervisory campaign with unannounced supervision, and that must be done now. The peasants also need support. That is why the Green Party in the debate on agriculture today will propose a comprehensive and exceptional monitoring campaign in Norwegian pig farms. Neither pigs nor Norwegian agriculture have time to wait more now, for the measures implemented following the Focus document ‘The Secrets of the Pig Industry’ by the NRK in 2019, obviously have not stopped the tragedy, which is still ongoing. It is therefore strange that, in view of this, the Council of State considers that no separate animal supervision should be established independent of the Food Authority and the Ministry of Agriculture. These conditions continue to exist in Norwegian pighouses — in Norwegian agriculture, with a regulatory framework which, according to the Council of State, is among the most severe in the world. It's an animal welfare tragedy. As others have pointed out here, the Council of State is very vague about the new measures it will take to stop this tragedy. It has been going on since 2019 and has not improved in 2021, two years later. Nevertheless, there is still immortality about how to actually stop this. I notice that the Council of State argues against establishing its own independent animal supervision. In this connection, I would like to draw up a quote from the Director of the Food Authority, Ingunn Midtun Godal. «On the one hand, we shall help the farmer to take better care of his animals and ensure good animal welfare. On the other hand, if we use the most stringent instruments, we can take from the farmer the basis of life. Then it is important that we are careful and patient...» I was thinking that the Labour Inspectorate would operate in this way. Imagine if the Labour Inspectorate would not order an enterprise to set up a counter to prevent workers from falling down, in fear that the employer would go bankrupt! Putting animals' suffering against the economy is simply unworthy. In this case, there is nothing on the one hand and on the other hand. Animals need an agent who works hard and expediently for their rights, not an actor to balance suffering against economic and industrial interests. The mandate of the Food Safety Authority makes it almost impossible for them to be the representative needed by the animals. I notice that the Council of State acknowledges that animals are self-valued. I'm very happy to hear that. But one consequence of that recognition is that a violation of the Animal Welfare Act is one breach too much. We cannot and should not go on chords in terms of animal suffering. The Greens therefore believe that we need animal surveillance regardless of business interests. We also believe that legislation needs to be tightened up and, in the case of pigs, the requirements for pig husbandry in the Animal Welfare Act and the corresponding regulations need to be amended to ensure that pigs are given the opportunity to live a good life. That is why the Green Party firstly requires the establishment of a separate animal welfare body responsible for the supervision of livestock farming. Supervision must be placed under the Ministry of Climate and Environment to ensure that it has an arm's length distance from agricultural interests. Secondly, we demand that the Council of State of Bollestad establish a disaster commission to investigate what has gone wrong in the pig industry and the cleaning process after 2019. Thirdly, we call for changes to the requirements for pig husbandry in the Animal Welfare Act and related regulations to ensure that pigs are given the opportunity to live a good life. This includes, inter alia: requirements for access to outdoor areas, access to soft ground, increased environmental coverage, total prohibition on the fixing of sows and the regulation of pig breeding, so as to improve the welfare and health of pigs. We respond quickly to this, as this is both acute and systemic. To quote Gudmund Hernes in Bollestad's own newspaper, Our Land: ‘If the daily life of Norwegian pigs cannot be shown in the nursery, the pig farmers have lost.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e284	There have been many different themes in this presentation. I'll try to answer something. I also want to say that the work that is continuing is also based on things that have been said here. To oversee, to improve, to act on attitudes, it's a systematic work. I've worked in health more than I've been a politician. Changes take time, and it's systematic work. It's always fresher. That means we still have to work on this. We see that there have been improvements. I hear someone say that there has been no improvement. But there are several veterinary visits, there is supervision now in progress, with the largest surveillance campaign ever conducted on pigs in Norway. 600 unannounced supervision is now coming. A mandatory animal welfare programme with 99 pst. is involved, means that you have an opportunity to get into this. The Food Safety Authority, which received the KPMG report in 2019, works around the clock both to unify and reconcile supervision, to make improvements in the way they meet people, and also how they document and how they also close the supervision they have had. Then we'll remember that when the Food Safety Authority visits, or supervises, they meet animals – they should – but they also meet people. It is absolutely true, as the representative Reiten said, that it is also an important aspect of meeting people. That's why we've been working together over time now, also with Norwegian Agricultural Advisory in the meetings we've had to improve the industry, just to make sure we have good animal welfare. But we must not forget that we should also take care of the whole picture and the people who are up in this. So the Food Safety Authority is working on quality, competence in supervision, precisely to see this whole picture that I have now described. Then I am quite clear that I do not want to separate food supervision from animal supervision. It is because I believe professionally that having good animal health ensures that we have good plant health, and also ensures good public health. We need to have that whole picture – that whole picture – in order to be properly supervised and ensure a safe animal welfare programme in our country. For animals must feel good. That's how the whole chain matters. That means that as a government council I don't rest on the laurel berries. I also do not think that when that time comes, subsequent government councils can rest on laurel berries. Because this is about people all the way, and it's also about animals. We have to focus on this absolutely all the way. The fact that the Food Safety Authority is now warning that they are spending more time on unannounced supervision is an important part of the large-scale supervision that is now going to be. But I want to mention in the middle of this some experiences that I also have with farmers, maybe those that are the best in the class. Last week I met one of them. If I'm going to go into him, I'm going to have to shower first, and I'm going to have to go into sterile clothes to get into the pig's mouth. Then he says, "Every day, Olaug, three times a day, I'm in and I'm changing and giving new root material and new litter under. If one comes at the end of those hours, they rotate and rotate and rotate. It's people who now wear their shoulders that earplug because they're so worried. So we're going to take both of these sides. We can't let anyone ruin a whole diet. That's why we have to do this to life, but we have to do it in a way that ensures that we get as much as possible, and that we ensure supervision in such a way that those who are not going to run with animals end up and those who need help will get help.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e303	The comment round has thus ended. The President will propose that the statement by the Minister of Agriculture and Food on measures to improve animal welfare in Norwegian pig production be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e321	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after submissions from the main speakers of the lots and six lines of response from members of the government, and those who had to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e328	This is actually a sad day. It is sad because the peasant organizations and the state did not sit down at the table, that the negotiations did not start at all. A good offer was made, amounting to 962 million. kr, which ensured chronically equal income development as other groups, corresponding to approx. NOK 18 700 per year. From the state it was signaled that the offer was a starting point for negotiations. Therefore, it was incomprehensible what happened, that the peasant organizations chose not to sit down at all. We have a series of negotiations that have been going on for 70 years, and we can count on two fingers the times the breach has occurred in this way. It should be possible to break, it's a right to break, but it assumes that at least we've tried. We have met on twig and sent it over to Stortinget. That's not the case this year. Farm organisations failed to try at all. I will shake off this disappointment and continue to say that I am powerfully impressed with Norwegian agriculture. I have met many active, forward-looking farmers who run responsibly, sustainably and well. They've shown us that we have an agricultural that delivers, and that works well, even in crises. On Monday I visited Bjertnæs & Hoel Green Food in Vestfold, which runs with potatoes and salad. There have been challenging times for them to bring in labour, but they also said that because of corona, technology development has speeded up. They thought that within five years very much inside green could be done with robots. Developments are going very fast, and this will make us more competitive in Norway in the future. Actors such as Bjertnæs & Hoel become important drivers of innovation in Norwegian agriculture, which benefits the entire agricultural sector. I have also met farmers who drive at the other end of the scale. In right-hand Tysnes outside Bergen, Irene Dalland runs Myrdal Gard. Here she runs with Western fjords and old Norse sheep that are cared for by her dog. She doesn't use power feed, just resources from the farm, from the field, and 100 covers of land. It's not much, so this is a very expensive production. She has eight-nine suckler cows, and she quickly realized that this was hard to earn. Then she got hold of the Swedish concept of the REKO ring, which we have all become familiar with in recent years. By repairing the sale herself, she managed to collect a price that was three to four times higher than if she were to get Nortura to sell the meat, for example. They make delicious pizza cheese, they sell large quantities, and they also operate with a little small work. These are two different uses that I have described, but we need to have space for both of them. We have to have the thousands of digits, and we have to have the streamlined and big ones. We want diversity, so that we get an agriculture all over the country, and so that preparedness becomes robust. To achieve this diversity, we have raised some roof. We have raised some thanks for there being opportunities to drive big for those who want it. This lifting of the roof is not an obligation for the farmer, but an opportunity, which I record that the Workers' Party will remove. We have also provided for differentiated operating grants in the districts, we have phased out the premium for grass in good cereals areas, and we have introduced specific grants for small and medium-sized uses. We also know that agriculture is facing some challenges in the future, which we will follow closely in the future. We're going to make sure that we get a good balance between the grants for land and production, so that we get an agriculture all over the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e349	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e354	The Agriculture Communication is the top marshalling land of the government to follow up what is Norway’s food and agriculture policy. In this context, it is in a unanimous position that the Committee considers that good welfare arrangements are an important contribution to ensuring the recruitment of the agricultural industry and that farmers should be able to have social conditions ‘in line with other groups’. But this spring, there have been many clear examples of it not being so. People who are going to have a family have to go into the puddle just before they have kids themselves, and it is not possible to have a proper system of redemption that ensures holiday, leisure and family life. At this point, the government's proposal today is breaking with the agricultural communication. How can the representative defend that there are worse social conditions and that the agricultural report is being broken today?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e359	Over the years, we have been committed to strengthening the welfare system for farmers. Now we have submitted an offer of 962 million. kr to farmers, and in that offer there was also a development in welfare. So we know that if the farmers had chosen to sit down to the table and negotiate, one could have adjusted the welfare arrangements to a greater extent as well. We know that the government was ready to negotiate. We know that there was a lot to go on there, even within the welfare bit. So it's unfortunate now that the farmers' organizations chose to break these negotiations. This would have helped them to have had the opportunity to strengthen even more what was at the root of the offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e366	Competition in the dairy sector and dairy products has been an important policy objective for 25 years across governments, across political parties in this room. Also for the Right, it has been an important matter. So it's still having Tine between 70 and 100 pst. market share, slightly dependent on how regions and products are calculated. We know that the Directorate of Agriculture has now proposed to make some changes to the PU system, which will hit the bottom of the small tab of competition in the market. At the same time, the Right is going to vote against our proposal for improvements in the same scheme, which can create dozens of new jobs both in Tolga and in Namsos, and associated large investments. Why has the Right become against competition in the dairy market?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e373	The PU system, the milk price equalisation system, is very important for competition in the dairy industry. It's a system that we've been very happy with for many years. We now see that there are some challenges around how the system has evolved, and we have arranged for several rounds that we need to look at the composition. I have registered the proposal of the Progress Party in this matter. But then we have a principle that the offer to the government for the agricultural settlement is when the parties do not want to sit down at the negotiating table. It is not that we do not want to look at adjustments to the price equalisation system – we will continue to discuss that. But in this case, there was no time. The offer that the government has already made stands. And then we'll look at this later.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e380	From that point of view, there is no doubt that the Storting is free to adopt the agricultural policy that you want. So one in the post right here and in the line-up that one closest owes to the farmers because it was like it was, and one regrets the break. It was broken in 2014 and 2017. Then Right chose to participate in changes in the agricultural settlement in the Stortinget, despite the fact that it was broken. So I have heard some indications that in 2012 and 2021, one of them did not even sit at the negotiating table, as one has said, should affect the treatment in Stortinget. There is no basis in any rules or system. But my question to the Right is, how many hours should agriculture negotiate before Right thinks it's legitimate to make changes to a poor supply in the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e387	I am surprised that the representative Pollestad now has a completely different approach to not getting to the negotiating table at all than he had in 2012. In 2012, we got exactly the same situation, except that the offer was not so good. The offer did not provide an equal income development with other groups, as was the case now in 2021. So I have to say I'm very surprised at this question. We've actually gone so far that we've clipped the notes that the Center Party posted in 2012, into our comments today, that there's a long tradition that the offer stands when there's a kind of break that you see here. So I'm very surprised at the Center Party, which turns the jacket after the wind and changes its view of this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e394	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e400	If there is a new increase in the number after the elections, there will be a new course in agricultural policy. This is an optimistic day, because we have a clear and offensive direction on many points in common on the red-green side. We are going to demand a new course in food and agricultural policy that is built on the country we are, and the nature we have. If we study the Norway Map, we will see that our country is largely built on fjords, mountains and forests. There's a lot of land resources, but the little yellow spots that are our food soil are scattered, and it's just 3 pst. of the land area. The policy of centralisation now being pursued is completely contrary to the geography we have. No politician or blouse, whether called Sylvi Listhaug or Trygve Hegnar, can ever lift the country we are. It's not possible to change that geography. Fortunately, no one has that power. Then, of course, Stortinget must pursue a policy that is consistent with the terrain. That is why, from the State budget of 2022, if we are given the opportunity, we will ensure that an investment package and an escalating plan are created to enable us to renew food production and the jobs in milk production around the country. At the hearing of the nutrition committee, an important and crucial detail was presented. The average Western farm has 14 cows. Today's policy only facilitates the participation of those who have more than 15 cows. In other words, if this policy continues, it is a planned centralisation and reduction of precisely important soil and grazing resources that lie both in the West, in Northern Norway and in the South. All three of these parts of the country are currently heavily under pressure, where parts of the earth are now out of operation. This means that self-sufficiency is falling. The security of you and me as the inhabitants is weakened. When we present this plan, if we get the opportunity in the state budget 2022, it is a very happy day for Norwegian construction industry and carpenters throughout the country. There is no investment decision that is as decentralised as starting work to rust up over 4,500 booths scattered throughout our country. It will create activity and employment at a time when more is needed than ever. For our country is built on the scattered family agriculture, not company agriculture. It is natural that this must be so, because we have a geography that requires us to live widely and work widely if we are to create values and jobs. Even in Denmark, centralisation policy led by the Progress Party has failed. Indebtedness growth has gone so far that many farmers are actually borrowers, and the banking sector owns the values. We have to stop that development. That's why it's vital for us to have a policy that reduces the cost of capital. As I said, this must happen in milk production, but it must also happen in cereals production, for since 2000, the Norwegian grain area has been reduced by 15 pst, and it is the smaller and medium-sized gardens that operate on cereals that fall away. In order to strengthen preparedness, which we have repeatedly revealed in recent years is too weak, we need to bring these uses further with us and create an enhanced opportunity to both dry and store the grain in climatically changing times decentralised on the farms. This is how we can release larger silos for national preparedness storage. Our new agricultural policy course stimulates technological development that uses resources where they are, and it is incredibly positive. The last example I want to use is from my home municipality, Tynset, where Kvikne has developed a technology called Findmysheep, which is GPS bells. There are warnings about a new era that are adapted to strengthen the security of all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e417	Should the representative address the Labour Party's proposal in the case?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e422	That's right! I'm going to be happy to, because that's what's important for a new course.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e427	Then the representative Nils Kristen Sandtrøen has taken up the proposals of the Workers' Party, and the proposals of the Workers' Party alone. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e434	The Labour Party proposes to lower the milk quota ceiling, and the proposal states that it should be adapted to Norwegian nature, geography and resource base and agriculture throughout the country. Now it is that the resource base varies greatly from place to place in the country, and there is not just one quota cap that takes it into account. We in the Right want a variety of farms, both large and small, and I experience that the Labour Party's proposal here challenges those who want to get a little bigger, in some areas. Once we've raised the quota caps, it doesn't give you an obligation to produce that much milk. It's not an order, it's an opportunity. Then I wonder: why should new, young dairy farmers lose the opportunity to earn and develop the old dairy farmers?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e441	I'm very happy to get that question. That's right, the representative Gimse says that we are now going to have a Norwegian quota ceiling that is consistent with the nature we have. When Sylvi Listhaug and the right-wing government launched the centralisation policy, it was three times as expensive for young people to get the entrance ticket to have milk production as work – three times as expensive. It's also the back door for parts of the peasant revolt, because young people are trapped in a trap where they have had to take up large debts to obtain the farm and quota, and are facing challenges in serving that commitment to the bank. Of course, we're going to reduce the entrance ticket for those who want to enter agriculture in the future. Those who have adapted will be allowed to keep the allowances they have today. These are the policies of those who are going into the industry, those who are going to be active in the industry. The same is happening in agriculture as in fisheries, where it is expensive to obtain a boat and a quota. Now it's been expensive to get a farm and a quota. We really need a new course in Norwegian agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e446	I wonder if the Labour Party has thought of all the implications of this proposal. What is it going to be like when the farm is to be sold, at generation change, when the banks see that the quota ceiling has to go down? How does the Workers' Party think of solving this bunch? I think this will lead to more pro forma ownership, among other things. That's not good. It won't help what Sand Tread here is talking about, making more young people take over farms and get new ones and really own something. How will the Workers' Party solve this crowd?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e453	As I said, it must be based on a healthy economy for those who are active in the industry. In recent years, we have seen that those who have actually tried to adapt to the Advance Party policy and centralisation policy are now in a state of dissension. These include: to spend so much money on renting expensive allowances, and to borrow so much in order to obtain allowances that – also in Gimse's home country – was three times as expensive. It's a anti-business policy, and it makes it expensive to get into an industry. The Labour Party thinks about the youth, about the future, about the recruitment, and then, of course, the cost and the entrance ticket have to go down instead of shooting in the weather. The Progress Party, which is the Right Partner, has the most misleading proposal today. They're going to continue this price range and raise the ceiling to 1.2 million liters of milk. That policy has not even been adapted for the United States of America. Now we must have reality orientation. It's time to follow the map of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e458	In my county, I've been called up by farmers, more specifically from Hemne, out in the district, who say, "Let's get the opportunity." They say, let's get the chance to produce more if we want. Okay, enough about that. We want to have a good balance between small and large, but what happens now, that you take away this possibility, I think will also help that AS can become more popular, because there is no change of ownership. None of us are fan of AS in agriculture, but when it turns out that the legal person becomes the same, I think it could force itself, if you lower the roof in the way that the Workers' Party is talking about. Has the representative Sandtrøen considered all the implications of what they now want?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e467	I know very many members of the party Right who are just fans of AS in agriculture, so they are enough to a large extent. To the question, yes, we've been thinking about all the implications. The first thing that's going to happen is that, among other things, Ola, as we have seen in the debate in several rounds, which is now spending a lot of money on renting allowances, will get a fairer rent. Then the total economy of Ola is improved – when less of the money is channelled from those who work on the farms, and there are less payments to passive stakeholders and to the banks. That's the first positive that's going to happen. The other positive thing is that rapporteurs throughout the country will see that there are still opportunities for rural settlements, because we have a great deal of responsibility and ensure that there is still to be value creation on local natural resources. If this centralisation policy continues, it is in many towns that the last use will disappear, and thus the basis for other industrial activities and housing will also disappear.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e476	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e482	Safe, healthy and nutritious food is the starting point for us to act as human beings. Norwegian farmers deliver such food and drink to most of us every day. They deserve a great thank you for that. They deserve that we as consumers value it and send them a thought again and again. I think most of us do. Although we disagree on this matter about how much budget support is going to be, what target prices we are going to have, what to include in the agricultural deduction and not, and how much income growth is actually or not, we all appreciate the job that farmers do every day. When agricultural organisations chose to break negotiations before they were in real negotiations at all, they took a calculated risk. They knew that the starting point for the Storting is the state's offer. This was also the case in 2012, when they broke after three days – one more day than they used this year. This has been the tradition of all violations, except when the Christian People's Party was opposed to the Right and Advance Party government. Now the Christian People's Party is very concerned that the Storting must follow the custom and adopt the government's offer. It's going to be exciting to see what the Christian People's Party is doing on the next crossroads, when they're sitting on the tip or in opposition again. It's never good to say which way the chicken kicks. The Progress Party believes that the State's bid of 962 million. kr shall be at the root of the size at present. But we believe that the Storting should make some clear priorities before we return the offer to the distribution negotiations between the parties in the settlement. For us, it is for example: on strengthening the channelling policy. Cereals should be grown in the very best cereals regions. There is not so much of the country's area that facilitates grain production. That is why it should be given priority. We propose that the parties halve the grazing premium in Zones 1 and 2 and that the priority be given to grazing premiums in other areas. We also believe it is important to make ourselves less dependent on imports into feed, especially in view of the resources available to us. We therefore propose that the relative competitiveness of roughage should be strengthened by reducing the price reduction from cereals to power-feed. It will also lead to more grazing and care of the cultural landscape in the outback. The size is likely to decline to dozens of new district jobs in both Tolga and Namsos today. Competition in the dairy market has been important for most batches for about 25 years, ever since the Gunhild eye opened up to competition by the Workers' Party. But still, Tine has between 70 and 100 pst. the market share of the different products. Unfortunately, the Workers' Party and the government parties fail the districts when they say no to our proposal to merge the distribution grant and the general grant, so that Synnuve Find can trigger large investments in the Inland and the Trøndelag. They also refuse to allow this manufacturer to resume the production of yoghurt. Not only do the government parties say no to this today – the Agriculture Directorate announces that they want to remove the distribution grant under the PU scheme. I understand that the directorate and department are two different things, but the fact is that Bollestad and the bourgeois government with wide-open eyes are sitting and watching their own directorate send out a notice that will in practice torpedoes the whole milk deal from 2007. It will destroy the little tab we have of competition today. Some have said that the government has become some kind of administrative government without visions and visions of where society is going, some kind of Bondevik III government. In this area, they are right for the critics. We need more competition, not less, if the goal is for people to drink more milk and eat more dairy products, and so will innovation. A large part of the debate in the last few months has circulated around the so-called peasant uprising and the discussion that these do not recognize themselves in the numbers of what is called the total calculation. That's not very strange. The main reason is that Norwegian agriculture is very diverse. 32 pst. in 2019, the farmers had no taxable entrepreneurial income from agriculture. More than half, 56 pst. by users, had an entrepreneurial income from agriculture of less than NOK 100000. It makes little sense to compare wages and salaries with entrepreneurial income. Wages and salaries or labour income are, to a large extent, objective. It is not entrepreneurial income. It depends on the possibilities, threats and choices of the individual economic operator. So there'll always be some or many people who don't recognize in the numbers. With that, I'll take up our suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e507	The representative Sivert Bjørnstad then addressed the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e514	The Progress Party is, of course, a liberal and radical party in agricultural policy and has today's most radical proposals, which will completely change where it is possible to live and have jobs and businesses in Norway. For milk production the ceiling must be set at a completely unrealistic level – of 1.2 million litres of milk, according to the Progress Party. As we heard in the line-up on the important topic that I am pleased that the representative Angell Gimse took on, which got out how bad things have gone: Since Listhaug was Minister of Agriculture, it has been three times as expensive for young people to get the entrance ticket to have food production as work – after the Progress Party started this radical centralisation policy. Now, when you're going to take a new step, how many times does the Progress Party count that it's going to be for young people to get this entrance ticket if this is adopted?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e523	Let me start by saying that I agree with 50 pst. of the entrance to the question of Sandrøen. The Progress Party is a liberalist party. That we're radical, I may not say, but it'll be at the expense of the Sand Tread itself. It is true that the Progress Party, as in 2014, wants to increase the quota ceiling to 1.2 million litres. When the overall goal is – and I understand that everyone agrees – that we are going to produce more food, the easiest way to do it is to allow those who already produce today to produce more. There are few industries that are as pervasive as agriculture. Maybe we should be confident that farmers will manage the trust we give them by allowing them to produce more? That's right, as Angell Gimse said – I also get phones from farmers who are interested in producing more, and who want to produce more milk than they are allowed to today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e530	In his post, the representative was busy working at Tolga and Namsos. If you read the batch program of the Advance Party and the draft for the next period, you have to continue removing customs duties and protective regimes. Then my question is: if a success in removing or reducing customs duties and the protection regime, does one still believe that there will be more jobs in Tolga and Namsos?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e535	The answer to that is yes. I believe Norwegian consumers are more and more interested in safe, healthy and nutritious food. We know that Norwegian food producers are among the very best in the world in animal welfare, chemical use, antibiotic use — at all to produce safe and good food. I think Norwegian consumers are interested in continuing to buy Norwegian products. We also look at developments in recent years that Norwegian consumers buy Norwegian food. We are going to deal with a matter tomorrow that is about a free trade agreement with the United Kingdom. In that agreement, Stortingen will say no to getting more jobs across the coast, in return for having imported a few more agricultural products, which are our primary policy. I think Norwegian consumers had still managed to make that choice, even with a few more oysters on the disk.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e542	The peasant rebellion is in many ways the work of the Progress Party from when they raised the roof in 2014. SV wants to gradually descend to the 2014 level. This is the work of the Progress Party, and now they want to raise the ceiling to 1.2 million litres of milk per use. Since the Progress Party is a liberalist party, and when they don't care about the consequences for Norwegian agriculture, I wonder why they have a roof in the whole, in the value of the Progress Party. What's the reason why a set of 1.2 million liters doesn't remove the roof completely or maybe increase it further? What is the reason why one operates with a roof in the whole, in the value of the Progress Party? What's the foundation for that?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e547	The reason for this is a harsh pragmatism on the part of the Progress Party, that we understand that it is not all in our primary policy that we are going to have a majority in the Stortinget, nor today. Our 1.2 million liter proposal is just like the one we had in 2014. We think it's worth proposing it again. The black paint about how bad this was going to be, which came from the red-green opposition when we increased the roof last time, has not been shown to vote. There is a completely different situation in Norwegian agriculture from what the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV claim in the pulpit today and in other debates. We believe that there is room to raise the roof a little more, so that those who want to invest and produce more – produce more food, which is the overall goal for all of us – will be allowed to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e556	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e561	The representative from the Right described this as a sad day. I think it might also be a nice day to discuss agricultural policy, because you see the opposition party, an alternative that wants a different direction for agricultural policy than the current government with the support of the Progress Party. In that work, the Centre Party shall always be in the front. Now I want to comment that we have today had a so-called hare, which would also be in the front, SV, and which has been out with some years. First, the income gap had to be closed in 2025, and then it had to close in 2030, and then it was going back to 2025. But I want to pink the hare -- he needs to, but I think the best thing we can do is say that 2030 is too late, 2025 maybe, but we need to talk first. So we have to have an offensive plan for what we want to achieve, and then we have to have a time-table plan and put it in place. That's what I think is an important task for a new government. In this way, the proposal from the Centre Party is what both the Labour Party, the Centre Party and SV need in this matter. There are some developmental traits in agriculture that are not good. Imports of food are increasing. The people who sell the food are getting richer and richer. Our district agriculture is under pressure. Many people have a lot of debt and low income, and we have a government and a number that are not honest with numbers, which are not honest with the description of agriculture. That's where a little bit of the peasant revolt that we've seen this spring is that one doesn't recognize itself in the description given. I want to praise the peasant uprising, and when I say the peasant uprising, I think of the private initiative that someone has taken and that has collected a lot of support. However, I would also like to highlight the way in which trade unions, Norwegian Farmers' Associations and Norwegian Farmers' Associations have managed and followed up on this. Much attention has been paid to the importance of agricultural policy. I found, for example: that the Right's agricultural network is good for traveling around and good for visiting. I see them promoting local initiatives, but I don't think they're good enough to establish the relationship between agricultural policy and what one sees in agriculture. It is such that you don't get local specialities, you don't get an agriculture in the whole country if you don't have an agricultural policy at the bottom. Why should we have an agricultural policy? Well, it's because it's important business policy. That's the basis for too much value creation in our country. It's a central part of district policy. Agriculture is the cornerstone of many municipalities. And not least -- it's an important part of our preparedness. Food is as important as soldiers. Food preparedness in Norway is too weak. At the time of the year and what is now coming, one might say that it must be special in order to obtain the support of the Progress Party in the Stortinget. Thus, one chose not to include any of the structural measures in the offer, so one knew that one could be supported if there was a breach. The centre party believes that Stortinget has a self-responsive responsibility, and that is why we have proposed 1 billion. kr in the additional framework, plus that we in the revised budget have added 400 million. SEK for investments. It will provide the basis for closing the revenue gap by around NOK 25 000 when we increase the framework, and then the income effects of the investment increase. I think that is the best policy that will be pursued here today. So it's about getting the long-term plan in place. How can we close the income gap? We must have a fixed target. If there are four-five-six years on which it is based, we must take the peasant revolt seriously and say: first we have to have the figures in place, then we have to plan. That's what the Center Party is going to do. It would be very good if the Senter Party's proposal No. 66 got multiples. With that, I take up the suggestions that the Central Party is all about, and the proposals we have with SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e581	The representative of Geir Pollestad then mentioned the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e588	That was an interesting review. The representative Pollestad started with the hare – or ‘hairy ass’, as we say. We, who are a little familiar with nature, know that the hare jumps a little here and there, without any complete control of it. The representative, Pollestad, could also give us some indication. I am fully aware of what has been promoted, without I being able to see that the representative takes on board that agriculture is also in a market. It is also interesting that what may look like future government partners – SV, but not least the Workers' Party – wants to focus on 14 dairy cows in particular, i.e. between 80 and 100 tonnes. What is the Central Party's plan for those who have actually made the big investments in agriculture today, who have actually done what many now want to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e595	It may be interesting to talk about the hare, especially when the criticism comes from the tortoise – if it is allowed to say to complete the image. But I will answer the question. Firstly, we recognise that the market is an important part. That is why we say that when you are going to make a mandatory income plan, you have to look at things like this. customs protection, for customs protection is about how much can be taken into account in the market. It's about support, it's about how an interior decoration supports. I think it's very, very important. What would you like to do for those who have invested? Well, many of those who have invested quite heavily, wear today with high debt and low ignition. The most important thing we can do for them is to increase the ignition rate. The centre party has been clear about it over time, that when we introduce delimitations where we take things down, we should have full respect for private property rights and those who have invested, so that it is firm.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e604	There is at least predictability with the tortoise. If it is not very fast, it goes slowly, but surely forward. The hare jumps here and there without anyone knowing where it lands, so I realize that it can be what the policy representative Pollestad wants to be based on. It's interesting to drill a little bit in that with the market. There has been predictability of customs duties. The government has done it. Anyway, we can't eat up if we're going to increase our output even more. Where should the provision be, when we are more or less in the roof now both on the meat side and on the milk side? Then it's interesting to hear how the Center Party reflects on where we're going to market the products to the skilled Norwegian farmer, because that's where we'll probably agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e611	I believe that there is a basis for increasing Norwegian self-sufficiency, and I also believe that there is a basis for increasing the Norwegian share of a number of products. First, we have to make sure we're self-sufficient on the meat side. It'll be important. It has been a lot of focus on yoghurt and cheese that the import share has been high. Where I think it's important to take action to limit it. The field where there is the largest import today, and where I think that the potential for increased national production is highest, is within berries, fruit and green. Unfortunately, there has been too little follow-up to the bid, but there is considerable potential within the green industry to increase the Norwegian share. Over and over again, there is a possibility of getting more marketing in the Norwegian market.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e618	The centre party and SV are some in many things, among others. The reversal of the various centralising reforms has been behind the government, but not entirely in the agricultural policy. Here we have presented a series of proposals that aim to reverse the excesses and the take-offs that were introduced in 2014, when the sin was broken by the government. What is the reason why the Central Party will not step down, reintroduce at the 2014 level and follow the SV on it, i.e. not reverse the centralisation policy that has been?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e623	We have a long way to go to say thank you again for bringing down borders. We have an own proposal which says that one supports the structural concepts proposed by agriculture in its claim. It also covers a number of different sectors. I disagree that there is no distinction here. I think that the main problem in Norwegian agricultural policy is neither the Centre Party nor SV. I think we have a common challenge in getting a new course on agricultural policy, with a mandatory, time-table plan to close the income gap. So I don't think the rest of the debate should be about whether the Central Party has NOK 10 000 more in income than the SV has in the year's specification. I'm recording that the willingness to close the revenue gap is great, and then we're going to take the time needed to figure out if it's going to be four, five, or six years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e630	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e635	It was SV who was called hare in this debate. We're doing quite well with it. We're impatient. We have to set a new course now. Agriculture in Norway is being reduced by today's political course. It's going to be less use, the earth's going out of use. It's being built up, and the number of farmers goes down. There is therefore a need for a strong change in the direction of Norwegian agriculture – now. SV has therefore submitted a series of proposals – proposals all recognize from previous rounds we have had on both agricultural policy and various messages. We are in favour of an alternative direction for agriculture. We want to raise the farmer's income, so that it is lucrative to move in the countryside, establish and use. We will gradually change quota ceilings and reductions down to the 2014 level, with steps, so that it becomes profitable to operate and start gardening in the districts, so that production is based on the resource base of the garden. We want to take power from the food chains and establish strong control over production, so that the income does not end up in the pockets of the owners of Rimi and the Norway Group, but benefits the farmer, the Norwegian product and the Norwegian people. We want strong import protection, so that trade policy does not undermine Norwegian interests and objectives for self-sufficiency and the environment. We want to put the earth back into action, because we see it as the only dangerous road if we are to become self-sufficient as a nation and realize our goals and dreams of climate and nature. For this reason, we propose that a four-year agricultural escalation plan be established, that the income of the farmer should be brought to the level of other groups in society. It's going to be all production, all usage sizes, all parts of the country, and that's the full income we're talking about. At the centre of the escalation is that the figures for the level of income are correct, that the means of preventing overproduction are established, that the escalation leads to more farmers, and that the soil is taken back into use. I was born in 1975. It was the same year my predecessors in SV, Berge Furre, pressed through an escalating goal for Norwegian agriculture – a historic decision. The aim was to smooth the income gap between the farmer and the industrial worker. The following year there was a big investment in agriculture, which turned the atmosphere upside down in the countryside. People move from city to village. Measured in 2020, agricultural settlement for 1976 was 9 billion. kr. Today, hardly a double is stated, while the rest of the economy has grown by several thousand percent. Think - poor Norway is going to bet on its own land resources. Today, the plurality is against. It's just a new course SV invites to today. Now, as we see now, decay trends. We now see the need for a strong change in the direction of agriculture. That's what we have to create now -- use the state's muscles to raise optimism. But if we're going to make it, here in Stortinget we have to commit ourselves, just as in 1975 – that's four years. It does not help with positive formulations – which a co-consultant had in 2017, when we said that the income gap would be close – unless it is followed up in practice. It doesn't help to deposit money into the given amount, unless we want to reverse the policy direction. We need to set ceilings and limits on sizes and strengthen the conditions for small and medium-sized applications. Those who have invested in today's policy shall not suffer from a change in course. But we can't continue with the same medicine. We must bet on the earth we have in this country. We have to turn the means into it. Kua needs to be adapted to Norwegian land resources. Gardanes must produce on the basis of their own land resources. The selection must be re-activated. We pay the teachers for the children's education. We pay health professionals for everyone to have health care. We pay the sun data to have a strong defense. In the same way, we have to be willing to pay the farmer proper, in order for us to have food for the whole people. In Berge Furre's spirit, I take the SV's proposal into account in this matter, with the exception of proposal No. 61. We in SV – not to go further into the hare operation – believe it is absolutely decisive that we are now changing the course of agricultural policy in this country. It has to happen now, because it takes a long time to make changes, and we only have the little time left. With this, I thank you for me.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e656	The representative of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e663	Knag Fylkesnes referred to this series of proposals that the representative makes, a series of proposals which can best be characterised as old-fashioned policies which, at least, do not contribute to more food production. In particular, he stressed the need to adopt ‘a time-limited plan to gradually reintroduce ceilings on grants at the same level as before 2014 as well as steps in grants. This applies to the subsidy schemes for all productions and areas, including, inter alia,: the livestock subsidies, the area grants and the reintroduction of the quantitative ceilings for district fruit and berries»; So he also mentions that he wants to lower the quota ceiling, which he was also in a line with me earlier. But why not give the next generation the opportunity to invest in the same way as today when the overall goal is to increase food production?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e669	It's simply because we have a policy today where quota ceilings and backlog levels are so high that we're about to have an agriculture that's not adapted to our country. We have productions that far exceed what there is resource base for on some curtains. We simply have to look at the country, see what we have the ability to do, and then put the policy in place. Instead of building up the area in the districts, we have to put them back into use. In Troms, my state, is 40 pst. of the area out of use. It's the county that's lost the most, and where the grazing grounds are perhaps best in the whole world, according to reports from NIBIO. There has been a systematic downturn in this policy. I understand that the Progress Party, with its liberalistic background, doesn't really want to have anything to do with this, but will leave the market raw. But I'm surprised that it's not a red-green connection to SV's proposal to go back to at least the 2014 level and be concrete on it. Norwegian agriculture is needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e676	On page 7 of the Committee Statute, the Government Parties write the following: «The members of the Committee of the Right, Left and Christian People's Party indicate that there is a long practice that the government, in the event of a breach of the negotiations, makes proposals for the Storting based on the State's offer. This is, in the view of these members, a necessary procedure if one is to maintain the established negotiating arrangements, which these members consider very important in order to ensure balanced development in the industry and to ensure the different social roles of agriculture. If the organisations were to break the negotiations and Stortinget then improves or reduces the government's offer, it would undermine the right of the negotiating system. These members will not contribute to such development.’;» With the exception of the lot name, this is a direct quote from the Committee setting for the agricultural production following the 2012 break, formulated by the then Red-Green Government Parties. We're recording that SV this year is proposing an addition to the state's offer of 1 billion. kr. What is it that makes what for SV was a logical consequence of the break-up in 2012, isn't it in 2021?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e686	Firstly, I was not an agrarian figure in 2012. But SV has always believed that the Stortinget has an entirely independent role in establishing agricultural policy in this country. We have a contract institute that's very important to fend for, but when you can't come to an agreement, I think the Stortinget is quite free to adopt what's necessary to get an agricultural policy that's the best for the country. A bit of the backbone of the breach this time is simply that the distance, the distance, between the trade union and the government is so great that one did not see any possibility of meeting there – for the sake of future agricultural production, for the consideration of the farmer's income and for the consideration of all the superior objectives we have in the agricultural policy, policies that the Christian People's Party have been in favour of adopting when we deal with the previous big message. We don't see it in any context with what the government is proposing, what came into the government's supply, and so it's necessary for the Storting to intervene.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e693	On pages 23 and 24 of the Committee opinion, SV has provided a list of indents of what it considers to be particularly important climate action in agriculture. I record that the reduction in meat consumption is not mentioned in those measures, and it is quite alarming in the light of other issues that Stortinget has dealt with earlier in the spring session. At the time of the discussion of the climate communication with the government’s climate plan, SV voted against a proposal that explicitly stated that no climate tax should be imposed on Norwegian meat. When, three weeks ago, the Stortinget examined a Green Party's proposal for a representative on lower meat consumption, increased self-sufficiency and more sustainable food, SV promoted a proposal which reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to work systematically to reduce Norwegian meat consumption.’ Why does SV not mention reduced meat consumption as a climate action with one word in the committee setting of the agricultural holding? Is it for – both literally and in the transferred sense – to make itself more edible to the Centre Party, in the hope of becoming part of the good company after any government change after the autumn elections?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e705	No, by no means. We got this stated extremely late, so absolutely everything we mean that is somehow related to the Norwegian food production is not in this setting. We have recently discussed a proposal to reduce meat consumption in Norway, where we went in to reduce it significantly. That's because, even when it comes to meat production, we have to have a adapted meat consumption, adapt our country. We can't eat Sunday's steak on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday. We have to have a consumption, also of meat, that's adapted to the area resources we have here. If the meat consumption just keeps increasing and increasing, we're just becoming more and more dependent on imported inputs, and everyone should see that we can't continue this way. And then there's also the climate dimension of this: a consumption where there's a lot of meat, it's not good for the climate. So we're crystal clear that we're going to increase and spread agriculture, while at the same time we're getting the meat consumption down.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e710	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e715	The rapporteur has well explained the timing today and not least also the position of the government parties. Then it might also be natural to grasp what is left's position in this. Like several, we have great faith in and will keep the agricultural institute. As the rapporteur was in office, this has been a very useful and good tool for agriculture for 70 years. The left has strong faith in Norwegian agriculture. Norway needs the farmer. We have strong faith in the Norwegian modern farmer who produces high-quality food. Not least, we have strong faith that the farmer is part of the climate solution, which helps reduce greenhouse gas emissions and takes care of the cultural landscape. We have strong faith that the farmer also takes care of his animals and makes sure that they are well in the poultry, even though someone has a way to go, as we were within a little earlier today. Not least, we have strong faith in the young farmer who dares to invest, invest in new solutions and technologies to produce high-quality food and contribute to climate change and better animal welfare. There is so much doubt as to how strongly the farmers' organizations and we politicians believe in the institution called agricultural settlement. The fact that we are here today in a major handling of the agricultural settlement without negotiations between the state and the organisations may partly add to the belief in agricultural settlement as an institution, on the basis of the calculation, and perhaps also the political agenda that the organisations may have had. A settlement without negotiation has at least not been favourable to the farmers themselves. Now it's the country's original offer that is essentially standing. That being said – breaking the negotiations is, of course, a sunshine right organisations have. The left has faith that we now need to look forward, look at new and better solutions, so that we can regain faith in the agricultural settlement as an institution and tool to renew Norwegian agriculture. We have to admit that many demands have given the farmer greater investment costs. It's created a demanding economic situation. The revenue is too low and the burden on investment is heavy. We need to develop better solutions for the farmer in the future. The left has been at the heart of making greater demands on both climate emissions, environmental impact and, not least, improved animal welfare, such as the removal of the booth and the release of cows in poultry. We will therefore also take responsibility and look at schemes that enable individual farmers to bear these investments and invest in future agriculture. We want an agriculture that is climate friendly, has good animal welfare and a low environmental impact. By using new technologies, the farmer will contribute to this and maintain a high level of Norwegian food production. It will also give a simpler everyday life for the farmer and thus also time to become more active both in relation to the family and to what is happening outside the farm. Investments must not become such a financial burden that the farmer has a poor quality of life. In the future, we need to develop policy. We need to look at today's financial instruments. Firstly, we must contribute with schemes that enable farmers to bet. That is why I believe that flexibility in grant and loan schemes, among others. has to get bigger. It is necessary to invest in better animal welfare, livestock leaching and investment that reduces climate emissions. Then we have to take into account that in the last 30 years there is hardly any industry that has been as innovative as that agriculture is. It's been huge, especially in the last period. In particular, diversity and variation are important, because the country is not homogeneous. That's why diversity and variation are some of the most important steps we've been taking in both the current period, when we've been in government, and the period before we got into government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e732	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e737	If we turn the time back to 2014, at the same time of the year as now, to what happened then, and the debate that was in the Stortinget, I think very well, almost as if it were yesterday, the post from André Skkelstad, the representative from the Left, who was proud of the high levels of quotas for which the Left and the Christian People's Party participated in securing multiple numbers. Does the representative remember the height of the quota ceiling and are he still proud of the increase?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e742	I remember very well the debate to which the representative of Knag Fylkesnes refers, from when we started negotiating in this Chamber on a quota ceiling of 1.2 million litres, that we, together with the Christian People's Party, got it on what is today. I am also of the feeling that it is important to give the possibilities to those who want to bet, but also to have with them the carrying capacity that our geography and our topography provide in terms of constraints. I want to develop a variety of agriculture. I understand that the representative of Knag County may not agree with that, because I believe that we are becoming attractive in more ways through diverse agriculture, in tourism, and in other things. But it can't be that we have a monoculture that was developed especially after the overproduction from the escalating decision that Berge Furre headed for in 1975.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e747	But if one sees the mercenary that this policy has led to, then those who have been betting now are sitting with the beard in the mailbox. It is enormously expensive – quota, rent, investment, etc. There is a dangerous trend in income. Interest saves a lot of these players. One also sees that the lack of reference to which the representative refers becomes weak. It's being built up because of the situation and the developments you've arranged. A lot of it can be traced back to 2014. Whether I can invite the representative to an instant of after-clocking and reflection: Is there anything about that decision in 2014 that an undoer of?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e753	It could have been interesting to reflect on quite a lot. I have a pretty good knowledge of this industry over many years. It's not going to come from the fact that the big downfall, if I'm going to use that expression, would come at an earlier time than when the Right and Advance Party came into government in 2013, also with what is referred to in 2014. I remember very well the whole singing in the 1990s, when Gunhild Eyeyang sat as Minister of Agriculture. There wasn't much joy around the kitchen tables in the barrel loans in Trøndelag that time. Everything was structured in relation to what you had opportunities to do. It's not today. Today there is an opportunity room there. It is possible to dry the bet, and it is possible to proceed further. But there are some paradoxes. It is that the representative Knag Fylkesnes is so concerned with those who have not invested. Still, maybe he was a little busy with those who have made investments?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e758	I can assure the representative that SV is involved in both parts, both those who have lost much of the policy that the government has pursued, and those who are effectively excluded through that policy. I appreciate reflections over a time before André Skjelstad and the Left had the opportunity to influence Norwegian agricultural policy. But what I asked for was reflections and assessments around the left itself, the decision that was made in 2014 – whether he is still proud of the decision, which really sets in motion an engine against increased centralisation and less shortages.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e763	I disagree with the whole entrance to Knag County. It was the decision that was made in 2014, not least with the rather powerful adjustments such as the Christian People's Party and the Left laid on the table at that time, which just opened up to a greater diversity, a greater variety and opportunities to bet for those who wanted it. So it could be like that -- from the reflection that Knag Fylkesnes made on his post, when he referred to Berge Furre in 1975, and honour being Professor Furre, whom I think had good intentions. The problem at the time, the problem in 1980 and 1981, was that it reached the ceiling of production, and suddenly, even though we had a strong tightening decision, it was not a gain for agriculture, it was heavily regulated. It was regulated until 2003, which was not beneficial to the industry. What's good now is that we have a diversity, we have a variation, and today's government has done it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e768	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e773	On 6 May this year, it became clear that Norway’s Bondelag and Norwegian Farmers’ and Small Farmers’ Teams, represented in the Agriculture Negotiations Committee, did not want to start negotiations with the State on an agreement in the agricultural settlement of the year. The reason from the trade unions was that the state's offer had a too low a framework for one to be able to negotiate. We find that regrettable in the Christian People's Party, and we find it difficult to understand such a reason to leave the room before the parties had at all started a dialogue on what possibilities would lie in any negotiated outcome. It concerned not only the financial framework for settlement but also several important issues relating to the structure and alignment of grant schemes and instruments that were in line with the demand of the Agriculture Negotiating Committee. As in all previous years, the parties also used in 2021 the basic material of the agricultural budget title in preparing requirements and offers for the agricultural settlement of the year. Like the other parties in the Business Committee, with the exception of SV, we would stress that the parties have also agreed on this basic material before the year’s settlement, as a common starting point for the negotiation process. Consensus on the basic material of the budget item is not only a prerequisite for the agricultural settlement of the year, but for the Norwegian model itself, where the trade unions negotiate once a year with the State on the economic framework, structure and arrangements of agricultural instruments and subsidy schemes. It is a privilege that Norwegian farmers are left alone in the world. At the same time, there is reason to recall that the trade unions are also represented in the budget and are involved in the preparation of the basic material for the annual agricultural production. There has been an important reason why the parties have always dealt with a number of material that is reliable and quality assured. On the basis of the basic material from the budget topic, both the Agriculture Negotiating Committee and the State this year have calculated exactly the same average figure for chronically equal income development in agriculture as in other social groups: DKK 18 700 per year. This figure was also the point of entry in the country’s offer in the agricultural negotiations of the year. Over many years, both the top figures in agriculture and we in the Christian People's Party have been concerned with reducing income differences against other groups in dollars and ears, not just in percent. This year, the government already posted a chronically equal income development in the opening offer. It is neither a dirty offer, a shameless offer, nor a mockery of the farmers, as many have tried to make it as. On the contrary, only twice in the last 40 years has one already offered by the State ensured a chronically equal development for Norwegian farmers like other groups in society, based on average estimates based on the basic material from the budget item. Therefore, any negotiated profit or loss in which the parties to the settlement of the year had agreed would have resulted in a reduction in the chronic income gap between agriculture and other groups of society. Over the last two major periods, this has been a unison demand from the trade unions. So the Christian People's Party and the government had a sincere intention to deliver on that requirement this year, as we did in 2019. I therefore find it sad that the breach in the negotiations is now cutting off the possibility of achieving it. The Christian People's Party has programmed that we will reduce the income gap between agriculture and other groups in society. I record that this year's offer provided that the objective of our programme would also be achieved in 2021, as it was in 2019, if there had been agreement between the parties to the year's agricultural negotiations. However, in the course of the year's agricultural settlement, we have seen that questions have been raised about whether the basic material of the budget item reflects today's economic realities in agriculture. It has also been argued that the calculation models on the basis of which the budget item is based should therefore be revised. These are important issues, and I am therefore pleased that the Minister of Agriculture and Food signals that she wants a dialogue with the organisations to discuss and review the basis for the calculation of the budget item, despite the fact that there was a breach in the agricultural settlement of the year. It is essential to ensure continued consensus on the fundamental prerequisites for the annual agricultural holding. At the moment that the parties no longer agree that the basic material from the budget item is correct and relevant, the foundation under the Norwegian model of annual agricultural negotiations also fails. In this case, there will be a very serious situation for Norwegian agriculture. Therefore, it is important that this dialogue should start rapidly in formalised forms, but that the parties should also be given sufficient time for such a demanding and comprehensive process. We note that the break in the agricultural settlement of the year will result in the state's offer remaining. It was also the situation in 2012 when the red-green parties argued in the same way as the government parties do in the committee setting for the agricultural settlement of the year. But what was presented as logical arguments for such a conclusion in 2012 is that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV choose to go away from this year. It may do well in an election campaign, but it also helps to confirm the impression that it can be worthwhile for the trade unions to go to a break in the negotiations, and then to achieve an increase in the treatment of the agricultural settlement by the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e796	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e801	The representative, Reiten, has said on many occasions that he is engaged in agriculture and food production in the districts. I also think the representative, Reiten, can see that the fact that young people have to pay three times as much to get an entrance ticket to food production prevents future agriculture and housing in the districts. I'm going to challenge the representative, Reten, at the same time as I asked the Progress Party, to: Will it be a disadvantage or an advantage for future recruitment to agriculture that the entrance ticket and the price of obtaining a milk quota continue to be even higher?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e808	Let me first make it clear that there is no agreement between the red-green batches about whether it is still allowed to sell, rent or rent allowances. Where SV says no in cash, the Working Party and the Center Party will not be involved. Then I want to stress that when the quota caps were raised in 2014, it did not happen in a vacuum. Then the red-green parties had ruled for eight years, and one had seen that there was ever fewer and greater use. It was self-employed who built bigger poultry, installed robots, and after that bar on the roof for what was at the time the level of production. That is why I still believe today that the quota ceiling was raised in 2014 was correct, precisely because of the developments in agriculture – again as a result of the agricultural policy that had been pursued by the red-greens in the eight years before.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e815	I didn't really intend to take a line, but then I realized that there was the last chance to take a line on the representative, Reiten, so I'd like to use that chance. One knows that much of what has happened in agricultural policy in recent years has happened with the Progress Party involved. In 2014 one came to an agreement on the Stortinget, when the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party came together. The same thing happened in 2017, and the same thing happens when a multiple is formed for the given year. There is certainly a broad consensus that some of the grips taken in 2014 in particular have been negative for the desire to have an agricultural policy throughout the country. My question is simply whether the representative Reiten is concerned about what will happen to agriculture if the country receives a new government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e824	This government has led a very good agricultural policy. The opposition parties are now trying to create a distorted image, that that policy has been misguided. This government has pursued an active policy that has just been targeted at small and medium-sized applications in order to bring them into development. We have reinforced the channelling policy; we have increased budget support per cow two to three times more for use with 15 cows than for use with 60 cows. We have introduced a separate grant for small and medium-sized applications, the pyramid grant – I could have mentioned many more examples. We have pursued an agricultural policy that ensures a varied use of agriculture throughout the country. What's going to happen afterwards is not up to me to say, but I have two graphical representations that might say something about it. Firstly, income trends measured in kronor against other groups in society during the period of red-green government. Secondly, the front page of the Nations on 16 April 2013, which shows how the level of self-sufficiency had fallen dramatically over the eight years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e829	In spite of the various graphs shown by the representative, Reiten, there is a peasant revolt that has great support in the population out there. The negotiations were broken, it was not even possible to negotiate because the distance was so large. Is it just sewing and complaining from the farmers around the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e835	I believe that what the peasant uprising started, is relevant, there have been some central issues raised, among other things. how to calculate for the totals. There, the peasant revolt has raised a number of issues that we also agree are important to be elucidated. That is why I am pleased that the Minister of Agriculture and Food has signalled that this sample will be cut down, and that one will go into that problem. It is also the case that when this sample first starts its work, they need sufficient time to land it. These are incredibly complicated processes, so I think we're going to be careful to simplify it too much, and maybe also to span the expectations of the work that is now to be carried out by the sample, too high.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e842	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e847	The world as a whole today has more than enough food to satisfy everyone, and better assumptions than ever before to eradicate hunger. Nevertheless, developments go wrong. Food safety is falling, and food power is being collected on fewer hands. The climate and natural crisis challenges food production, and industrially driven food soils are depleted. Norway has a role to play in this, unfortunately we use our resources too poorly. Much of the soil that is suitable for growing cereals, potatoes and vegetables has been built down and replaced with poorer food soils elsewhere. The use of pasture has fallen, the cultural landscape is growing again, and rural agriculture is weakened. Corrected for feed imports is the level of self-sufficiency in Norway below 40 pst. We have a food waste that is fainting, both in households and in primary industries. Only 3 pst. of Norway’s land area is a valuable crop — which could have been used to grow food crops to a greater extent than at present. Nevertheless, a full 90 pst is used. for animal feed — while land resources are growing again. Policy has been pursued for the eternal efficiency of a grey growth model, not real green growth. This has gradually weakened the rural communities and has been completely devoid of nature, animals, soil and farmers. NRK’s new report from Norwegian pighouses shows horror examples of how bad it can be when cost-pressed trumps sustainability and animal welfare each time. The small farms in the districts are rapidly being reduced to the advantage of large use in central areas, but the farmers that are so busy report enormous labour pressure and high debt. Soil leaves operation throughout Norway for the benefit of imports of soya and other reasonable feed materials. This leads to a huge loss of biodiversity and a pressure on natural resources beyond Norway’s borders, which makes Norway a major part of the world’s catastrophic food system. We will praise the agricultural uprising which has arisen and which calls for a dramatic warning about the pressure on the labour force and the economic situation. While the situation is critical of the recruitment of the farmers of the future, the state does not attempt to respond to either the insurrection requirement or the underlying structures that have created the situation. The sum of all of this is that agriculture is on a collision course with the Storting’s own agreed objectives on food security, agriculture across the country, increased value creation and sustainable agriculture with lower greenhouse gas emissions. Let me stress: it is not primarily agriculture's responsibility that we have ended up in this situation. It's Storting's responsibility. Norwegian farmers deserve a much better agricultural policy. That is why, in the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens This costs, and we must be willing to pay for it, because it must be farmers' turn now. Every year, therefore, the Environment Party proposes to increase the agricultural framework considerably. Today we are promoting nine solutions. Firstly, we are asking the government to increase the agricultural balance by 1.6 billion. kr or 160 pst. Secondly, we are asking for a Commission on Food Safety to be set up. Thirdly, we ask the government to ensure that the income gap between agriculture and comparable groups is close. Fourthly, we ask the government to step up its efforts towards self-sufficiency, including: by making it more profitable for Norwegian farmers to produce cereals, oil and legumes and fruit and vegetables, by strengthening customs protection. Fifth, we ask the government to stimulate more grazing and less use of power feed. Sixth, we propose the establishment of an animal welfare grant that promotes animal welfare measures such as: the supply of pasture land for pigs. Finally, we will ask that during the summer an exceptional and comprehensive surveillance campaign be carried out in Norwegian farms with pigs, with the aim of revealing the extent of infringements of the Animal Welfare Act through several unannounced inspections. With that, I will address the Greens' proposals to the Environment Party. I recommend everyone in this room to read up on the Environment Party The Greens' alternative agricultural policy, as we can find on billions of dollars.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e866	The representative Per Espen Stoknes has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e871	The farmers will no longer be holding the hat in their hand, and this year they clearly say that the conditions for the production of food in our country are too poor. Red supports the agricultural uprising and also the demands of the industry in the negotiations of the year. When the government does not give them anything to ensure that we can get food on the table and not least achieve the objectives of agricultural policy, it is right to break the negotiations. Unfortunately, things have gone in the wrong direction for a long time. We are becoming less and less self-sufficient in feeding livestock and food to the population. We have poor self-sufficiency because power-feed use is increasing, grazing is falling, and areas are going out of operation. We are becoming increasingly dependent on the seizure of land abroad to feed domestic animals here in Norway, while our grass grows for little use. So the intense focus on volume and efficiency that has dominated agricultural policy over the last ten years has given us low self-sufficiency, debt growth and overproduction, and that puts us in a rather risky situation. Production costs are higher than market revenues. The combination of growing debt and overproduction provides, in total, strongly increasing production costs and strongly decreasing market revenue. The volume focus that dominates the Norwegian agricultural policy means that today the instruments are in conflict with the objectives of the agricultural policy. Low-cost power feed, volume subsidies and investment aid for large-scale poultry frees the volume of production from the resource base, from the operating economy and from market demand. It wants red to change. Then we have to talk about what is the social mission of agriculture, not just about the subsidies or the sums of money that come from the negotiations. We must have good answers as to why we have an agricultural policy, and what is the purpose of it, namely to ensure preparedness, self-sufficiency and food security. This means that as much of our production as possible must be done on the basis of Norwegian resources. In 2018, we proposed that it be a goal that we should have a self-sufficiency rate of 50 pst., corrected for imported electricity. But a goal is not enough; it must be taken into account to achieve that goal. That's why we're increasing the resolution framework by 1 billion. kr, and we come with a package of measures for agriculture in the revised national budget. There is a need for money to make the earth driftable, to set up sets, ditches and get more animals out on pasture. We also come up with a clearer proposal on self-sufficiency, which shows where Red wants Norwegian agriculture to go in the future: a target of 50 pst. by 2025 and 60 pst. By 2030, which I hope the red-green parties can support. The other day we saw that Rema-Reitan was on the front page of, among others. The financial paper because he and a couple more daily food barons had turned 62 billion. kr richer under the coronary apathy. We see that the food peaks, such as Reitan, bring in money that is based on, among other things. The work of the farmers and the shopkeepers. The enormous sum they're left with, puts the farmers' demands in a certain perspective. Had the farmers been left with more of the profits that now end up in the food chains, we would have a rich and varied agriculture in our country and also fewer conflicts around the settlement. For us, it's a simple calculation: we take a little bit from the top to make sure that those who are responsible for the actual value creation get paid better for the job they do. We want to find out how to shift power, profits and values from the large daily food groups to both employees in the groups and not least food producers. With that, I take up Red's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e900	The representative Bears Moxnes has drawn up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e905	I quote from page 20 of the Red Party's principal programme: «We base our understanding of society on Marxist theory. Like other theories, Marxism must always be tested against practice, so that it can become an ever-increasing tool in the political struggle of an ever-changing society.’ Anyone who has read some history of ideas knows that it is a very central element of Marxist theory that private ownership and private control of natural resources and other means of production are the very bearer of the Marxist defined as a repressive capitalist system of society. Recent history also shows that in countries where Marxist-Leninism has been established as a political governance system, a hard-handed nationalisation of privately owned land resources and the establishment of cooperative and collective use has been carried out, where the farmer is reduced to a loan for the state and the regime. Is there room for the self-owning peasant in the ideal society of Red?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e915	Yes, it is. It is a line that we support, and we want to prevent large companies from buying up the land and creating industrial agriculture, as we see in other countries in Europe. We want to protect the family-based agriculture, and I think a lot of parties really agree on that. I guess it's the Progress Party and the Right that go in to allow an AS certification and a large-scale commercialization of ownership of soil. We often see that capitalism leads to power concentration, property concentration, while what we want is more democracy over the economy and thus the spread of power. The fact that a few very few people can possess wealth larger than the national wealth of the whole country is also a democratic problem. That is a democratic problem. Capitalism is a system that, in essence, at least concentrates power on a few hands, and therefore we want a more democratic economic system than this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e920	I am pleased with that answer from Red, but I have to almost follow up with a new question. Would it then be so that Red would draw a limit on where the right to own itself should go? Should it be that if a use exceeds a certain size, the right to own itself is lost because it is then defined as part of the capital of agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e925	No, but we'll probably do what we can to secure the small uses. What is a challenge is that many small uses go out of business, and that the operation is abandoned to others because it becomes difficult to operate because of the current agricultural policy. The real real challenge lies there. There we have proposals that I believe will help to ensure that more people can stay in agriculture, and that more people may also want to go into agriculture in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e931	I heard well what the representative Moxnes answered Steinar Reiten. It's quite interesting when it's referred rhetorically to the small uses that have passed out of production. And then it's not going to come from the fact that there's a lot of people who've been betting pretty hard. Would it then be so in the future that Red will be in favour of a rather large-scale regulation, an upper ceiling in view of having the ability to drive? This could lead to a huge debt burden for quite a few people. In the case of many of those who have now supported the peasant uprising – as the representative Moxnes pointed out that he supported it – the policy of Red will actually go against them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e936	We want an agricultural policy that serves the objectives of the entire agricultural policy. It is to ensure increased self-sufficiency, preparedness and also that we can have farms around the country, not only in the central east region or in Tøndelag, but also in mountain farming and agriculture in northern Norway. We do believe that today's agricultural policy, which has led to massive efficiency and also to a very high level of debt, i.e. overinvestment due to a very strong pressure for efficiency and volume, has obviously put farmers in a difficult situation. Then we have to help them out of it and beyond, and not least in the longer term ensure that the small uses get good conditions for their operation and can continue with it in the future. It is the basis of our policy. I think it'll be important to ensure future faith in the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e941	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e946	Agriculture has had some demanding years, years of heavy rain, extreme drought, over-production and the downscaling of milk production. Then came the pandemic and gave great upheavals in the market, but also increased demand for Norwegian food, historically low interest rates and cheap energy. It shows us that agriculture and policy development have to deal with a lot of externalities when we are making arrangements to achieve the objectives of agricultural policy. That is why it was important that we have a good trade agreement with the United Kingdom. It provides greater certainty for trade in the United Kingdom and for the domestic market of agriculture from a generational point of view. I am very pleased that a broad majority is behind the ambitious soil protection objective and the measures of the updated soil protection strategy. In the consideration of the climate plan, Stortinget concluded that the climate agreement with agriculture should be the basis for the very important climate work in agriculture by 2030. These matters have a fundamental impact on the production potential of our agriculture. They provide better predictability and are therefore also important for the achievement of the objectives in the longer term and for the annual agricultural operations. Agriculture prioritised several things in this year's demands, both investment, structure, climate, well-being and Norwegian trade. But the very top stood income. Agriculture entered into negotiations with an income development since 2014 where the gap between employees was reduced in crowns. From that point of view, the State offered the possibility of chronically equal development to 2022 as a starting point in the negotiations for a further reduction in the income gap. Requirements and offers used the same projections for 2022, but both are also clear that there is significant uncertainty about the development when the market is re-normalised, inter alia. We pay particular attention to the price of fertilisers. In several cases in recent years, we have come up with solutions and agreements in common with agriculture. I hoped that this year, too, agriculture would investigate what we could achieve at the negotiating table. I was negotiable on all the elements of the use of the instrument. Agriculture has a unique chance of influencing its framework conditions through negotiation. I think that is a good way to interact with responsible organisations. We'll never know what solutions and common priorities we could find this year. It is in line with established practice that the Stortinge today adopts the country’s starting point for negotiations as the agricultural settlement of the year. I'm recording that the opposition's alternatives are shattering. Then there has been a discussion of income, income variation and the measurement of income of farmers as private traders against the income target. This is a theme that has been following agricultural policy for many decades. We are now setting up a selection of experts to review the basis and assumptions for the measurement of income and the calculations in the basic material. Under the government of Solberg, budget support for agriculture has increased from 14 billion. kr to 17,5 br. kr per year and the agricultural deduction has been extended. Investment aid is increasing substantially and gives greater priority to small and medium-sized applications. We have strengthened the channelling, increased grazing subsidies and strengthened the structural profile. Under the previous government, the area in operation went down. That decline has now stopped. Food production has never been higher, the reduction in the number of uses has never been lower. We have improved the prerequisites for crop production. There are market opportunities, but also competition from imports. There is a challenge to agriculture that must always be taken seriously in the work on high Norwegian production and a variety of agriculture throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e961	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e966	In our democracy in Norway, it's like the government's task is to implement what the Great Government decides. That's also what I like to tell classes that are visiting here on the Grand Duchy to learn about our democracy. This, of course, also applies in agricultural policy. The work instructions of the Council of State are to follow up what has been decided by the Storting through the processing of the agricultural notification in 2017. What the government has presented here is contrary to the agricultural notification on the alert, and it is contrary to what the Stortinget has adopted on welfare schemes and on the structure to be able to have agriculture throughout the country. The Minister of Agriculture said that she was able to negotiate on all these points. But that does not help us in the Great Britain, because today we have received a proposal from the government that is contrary to many of those points. So it is not possible to claim that you were negotiable. We have to deal with what is to be dealt with today, which is contrary to the agricultural report.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e975	I suppose the representative knows what an agricultural settlement and negotiations are like. Then it is a requirement that we make an offer, and then we go to the negotiating table. And the offer never gets the way it was initially, because a negotiator gets to a result. That was also the objective this year. The goal this year was that I would negotiate at all points, precisely because I believe negotiations are so important to the parties who sit on the table. And then I have to refer to some of the statements that are made. If you see, for example, on welfare schemes, I would say that for families with children, the number of parental redundancy days for parents with chronically ill or disabled children has increased from 20 to 30 per parent. It's actually like we've increased the number of replacement days for single parents, and we've made it easier for those who are pregnant. We've done a lot, just to take the example of welfare schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e982	There was probably no proper answer to the question I asked, because the offer the government is submitting, which is Prop. 200 S for 2020-2021, which is the basis for the discussion of the matter today, must be in line with the Agriculture Communication, otherwise the functioning of our democracy will be a complete disaster. And that's what's my point. Then it may be individual details that are fine in themselves, but in general, it was also clear at the hearing in the nutrition committee that what the government is proposing here is contrary to what the Storting has decided. It is very serious, because it should not be possible in any area of our democracy. It's a fact. That's why I'm wondering how this can happen. For example, the Christian People's Party has have been involved in clear aspects of the agricultural notification, while the Progress Party, which was outside the scope of those provisions, is in practice the policy makers. It's Sylvi Listhaug who is the leader of the offer given here. But that is the Stortinge's instruction to the Council of State to follow.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e991	Point one: it is not Sylvi Listhaug who has submitted this agricultural establishment. Point two: The representative here shows all the way to 2014. There are 96 uses that have increased the quota since 2014. It's a fraction of Norwegian use. In fact, this agricultural policy shows that less use has been made. We have a larger area that produces cereals. We've increased the use and channelling, just to secure Western agriculture. Western agriculture has an average of 40 cows per use, with 14 cows per use for those with taps. So we've managed to channel and use the whole country. It has been important, both in the offer and in the policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e996	I referred to 2017 when the Stortinget dealt with the agricultural notification. That's what the government's work instructions to the Council of State break. That's serious. Unfortunately, we have also seen through the Korona crisis that there have been several demanding cases for the Norwegian business community where the Stortinget has made clear decisions, where the government has not followed them up afterwards. It must be something completely new in Norwegian history that we have a government that so little follows up what Norwegian democracy decides and decides. In the field of emergency, it is obvious to each and most of the inhabitants of Norway that the notification is too weak in the field of food. We need, for example: people who can jump in and do the important task of producing our food. So it's not possible to say that the agricultural message is met. I think everyone agrees with that, and it also came out crystal clear through the hearing. That is why we must have a new, practical course in agricultural policy so that we can achieve our objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1003	I'm concerned with practical policies that actually show up in results, and not just rhetoric. For the truth, there's less use going down, there's more area used, we've channelled and produced and have more decaves of grain in readiness than under the red-green government. The red-green government laid down 360 000 pieces of grain. Then we had a year of drought, and we got a dip, but we've increased the production by 60,000 pieces of grain. It means more to me than rhetoric – that in practical work and in dialogue with farmers, we get into a policy that works in practice and that increases food production.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1009	It has been right to read and hear the Christian People's Party's fundamental view that the state's framework must be adopted in the event of a breach. Like the Horseman, I would like to quote from a remark from the government parties, which says: ‘If the organisations were to break negotiations and the Storting then improves or reduces the offer made by the State, it would undermine the right of the negotiating system. These members will not contribute to such development.’;» The councils have just written a book called "Talking Truth About Life". If the Council of State is to speak the truth about 2014 and 2017 and the behaviour of the Christian People's Party at the time, when they did it the very opposite of what the Christian People's Party presents as an important principle today, how will she characterize it?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1019	I am pleased that the representative has told me that I have written a book. It's not a political book in the first place, but I'm going to say the truth about life in politics as well. In 2014 and 2017, the Christian People's Party did what the representative said. I totally agree with him on that. But it was also a different prerequisite for what was done then. It was that one had a breach after sitting at the negotiating table.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1026	Then I'm going to put the question that we're avoiding the worst advertisers for new books that have been published. I notice that the Council of State is very busy looking back in time. I thought I'd take a look ahead in time. It's like, I've understood it, that in Innst. 251 S for 2016-2017 it is determined that the revenue gap should be narrowed, as a measure. So it is, I think, a recognition among most of us that there are not today. The input gap is not closed. So today's Central Party proposes that we have a mandatory and temporal escalation plan for sealing the income gap. My question is: What did the Council of State think and what did the Christian People's Party think of it as deciding that we should have a mandatory and temporal escalation plan for sealing the income gap?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1035	For me it is also important to look back to drive safely forward. I also hope the representative thinks that it responds occasionally to look in the rear-view mirror when he is driving forward. I'll keep doing that. So to the question from the representative. I think we should work quite deliberately and strategically and systematically to reduce the income gap. I agree with the representative. But in my post, I showed that there were other things that also add to the income than only what we can control in Stortinget. That's why it's really a bigger picture to think politics in, in very many other areas, like getting into a trade agreement, like ensuring what we do when the borders reopen towards Sweden, which is about income, that we make productions that lead to market outlets in our own country, that we have a consumption policy, and that we as customers are also willing to pay for the quality of Norwegian products. So I agree that in sum, in addition to the farm plan, it is going to be involved in covering the income gap.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1042	I noticed something the council said. It was the establishment of an expert selection. Expert selection can mean so many. Can the Council of State explain who should be involved in that expert selection? And not least, should trade unions be there?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1047	I think that expert selection is very important to put down. I don't have the name of who it's going to be, but there must be people who are able to understand the context of the numbers that the subject of the Budget gets enough time to work on it and calculate it in such a way that everyone has confidence in it. Because that's not something we do just over a short time. Only for next year’s agricultural settlement do they start working already in September–October for good enough numbers. These are not simple numbers, and I think we need good people to do it. So I'm going to think that in a reference group, the subjects are going to be extremely important, because we need to know where the shoe is pressing, and what we're going to do to get the right numbers on the table that everyone trusts.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1054	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1061	Agricultural policy is about how agriculture will develop in the future, and when the price is wrong, it is the responsibility of the Storting to correct the course. That's it, and that's it. You cannot shift that responsibility to the parties alone. They can stand with their backs against the wall and the knife on the throat and have no opportunity to negotiate something that is sustainable in the long term. It is the government’s responsibility not to negotiate what the majority of the Stortinget has decided about the future course. You cannot then make a first offer that breaks it. Producing food is not like producing nails. It's a biological production. It depends on climate, geography, land, soil quality, etc., and it is a prerequisite that we must have at the bottom when we also need to ensure what is absolutely necessary, namely better self-sufficiency in Norway. Because it's ready, it's not just district policy. The need for higher incomes is a necessary instrument for agriculture to carry out the social mission of agriculture. It is food security and preparedness, agriculture throughout the country, increased value creation and sustainable agriculture with lower greenhouse gas emissions. Size is not sustainable. We know that, we see that in other countries that have completely different assumptions than us. It's not sustainable there either. Its greater one becomes, the more dependent is one of the State subsidies for that operation. What happens then is that we get an agricultural that is neither economically nor ecologically sustainable. The situation for Norwegian agriculture and food production is quite serious, and it seems that the Council of State has not fully addressed it. The revenue gap is large. In addition, agriculture and food production are the largest continental industry in Norway. I'm from Hedmark, and there's a big food industry. Agriculture accounts for about 85 000 annual works directly, and indirect employment sets it thousands beyond its own industry. So many farmers combine farming with other paid work. That's good. Norway has an area and a topography suitable for the combined soil user. There is no work community anymore on the farms around now, and for social reasons it is probably also very good whether there are several combined farmers in the future. Then we have to make sure.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1072	I'm proud of the Norwegian farmer, and we're going to have agriculture all over the country. Most people produce safe food of the highest class. At the same time, they provide the basis for an incredible number of jobs outside their own, in small and large communities across the country. It's little that beats a well-fledged cultural landscape. grazing animals in the liens are important both for the farmer, for the tourist industry and for us who want to take care of the land and our history. The crop landscape must be cared for if the regrowing is not to become an even greater problem, and if the area does not have the potential for increased production, it must also be taken care of. If we are to take seriously the social mission that farmers have – they are to produce food and take care of the cultural landscape – we must recognise that we need a balance in the grant schemes. There must be a balance between grants for land and production aid. The alternative is, as the Right sees it, that we choose to produce food only in parts of the country, such as Rogaland, Trendelag and the flatlands of the East, and it's going to be wrong. I have, along with the Right Agricultural Network, visited farming across almost the whole country. Unfortunately, the pandemic put an effective stop to the travel business, but we have still had good contact with representatives of the agricultural industries, and the Teams have become irreplaceable. Farmers at Frosta and Inderoy showed with all clarity what innovation in agriculture can mean. I recommend to everyone who is going on a Norway holiday this year – that is, most of us – to take the tour of the Golden Way. Take your time, freshen up the local food and drink, take breaks so you can really see the beautiful cultural landscape, and spend the night in at least one of the accommodations along the way. And when you lay down, you can send a grateful thought to the farmer and her contribution to that you had a wonderful day. We've visited fruit growers in Hardanger and seen how they use technology and engineering to grow flat-grown, i.e. filling the dumps again so that the broken lines become a little bit easier to grow and they can exploit their area even better. There I also have a few holiday tips if someone wanted to. A few weeks ago I got to be with Mari Fredrikke, a young farmer on Vormsund, one day on earth. Mari Fredrikke showed me what technology and digitisation have contributed to her everyday life – how, thanks to a GPS system and technological solutions on the tractor, she can operate the farm with her own forces, despite physical challenges. I will continue to eat lambs and cattle from Ainas Gardsmat in Sandefjord, pigs from Dyster Gård in Ås, cheese from Rygge Meieri and from Gangstad Gårdsisteri in Trøndelag, and not least sausages from Stavsmarken Gård and Pölsemakeri on Vega in Nordland. This shows a little bit of the diversity of agriculture, and that diversity will right and I will continue to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1085	I would like to start by regretting the fact that the agricultural settlement in 2021 was still without real negotiations between the state and the agricultural organisations when it was found that, in the light of the agricultural feedback, it was a violation of the agricultural negotiations of the year. I want to use my post further to highlight the green sector. 2021 is the United Nations International Year of Fruit and Vegetables, and the aim is among others. marking the role of fruit and vegetables in nutrition, food safety and health. Interest in healthy nutrition, short-term food, local traditions and resilient solutions reflect the time we live in. Green production has had a positive development in production, but its potential remains high to boost production, innovation and product development in the sector. The name of the gvarv in Telemark is fruit-built, and after many people say it, there are one of the best plums, the best apple and the best apple must. In these areas, there's a lot of sun, there's a lot of soil, and there's a lot of good fruit producers -- yes, there's even a wingard here. Telemarkseple is a national food tax that has a protected concept. Last fall, Minister of Food and Agriculture Olaug Bollestad in Gvarv was to distribute the honorary brand Speciality to the apple flower, which is Norway's largest apple press. In 2019 they press 1.3 million litres. The apple flower is an innovative company that has had a major development since its launch in 2003. Telefruit is Norway’s largest fruit pack and also lasts in Gvarv. Here, apples, plums and morels are packed from Telemark and parts of Buskerud and Vestfold, and they are packed for 95 pst. by the Norwegian market for pastry products. At the beginning of May there were unfortunately several nights with minus degrees in Telemark in the fruity Gvarv, and the ruined apple season for several farmers. The situation is that up to one third of the apple tree is dead. The fruit consultant at Nome and Mid-Telemark agricultural office, Jan Meland, stated that between 5 and 10 pst. of the fruit tree in Mid-Telemark have died as a result of frost. The consultant says that he has never experienced similar frost damage in his 30-year career, and as a result of the frost, 50,000 new apple plantations must be created. Luckily, there is a crop compensation scheme, which allows compensation for crop damage in the year of injury and for subsequent damage in the following year for multi-annual crops. The crop failure scheme will cover sales revenue in 2021 and 2022. The system covers up to 70 pst. of a normal year. I hope and believe that the fruit-growers will recover from this system.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1102	The peasant revolt led to a break in the agricultural settlement of the year. The grassroots in agriculture finally stood up and said clearly about the economic realities of the industry. The agricultural trade union had to listen and take into account. They should have realized this years ago. The crucial thing now is what the peasant rebellion will lead to. Who will take on the role of the political spearhead of the peasant uprising at the Storting in the coming great age? Now it is the farmers of their best age who work beyond all reasonable limits, who react. In this situation, we learn that the Council of State and the peasant revolt have a completely different sense of reality. One has a different sense of reality both in terms of food safety and in terms of agricultural income. The current situation is the result of political decisions in this room. Everyone who says that evolution is different from what the majority of people want is probably wrong. That's not true. It wouldn't have been possible to do this if the population didn't agree. The water supply in Norwegian agriculture goes down every day and is now 10 pst. lower than the worst in Europe, which is Switzerland. Quality also costs for food production. This means that we have to have import protection that makes it possible to charge prices for the increased cost of quality. The figures provided by the Agricultural Budgetary Board shall be professionally and non-politically corrected as at present. It's been pointed out repeatedly. Fortunately, we have now received the peasant revolt, which has focused on it. Labour productivity in Norwegian agriculture has increased extremely in the 2000s – about 5 pst. per year. This means that for each hour of work, a quantity of product is twice as high over a 14-year period. This has occurred without any improvement in revenue as a result of an increase in market prices less than the increase in price. It's no wonder we're in the situation we're in. To sum up, we have cereal imports. Imports of cereals have only increased by 400 million kg in the 2000s, or by an equivalent of 1 million decires of soil. It's not strange it's going to be overproduction pressure. As cereal imports increase, there will be overproduction pressures and areas in Norway will be less valuable and less used, and Norway will grow again. It's all a result of a conscious policy. This has to be changed – that is the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1116	What happened when agriculture chose not to sit down at the table, nobody knows. But it was strange, yes, directly nice, because this was a good offer. As mentioned above, there was a chronically equal income development for the farmer as for other groups, and it contained a proposal to look at the basic figures for agricultural production. The state also signaled that they were ready for negotiations. But what was even more strange was the Workers' Party and the Center's reaction to the breach. This breach, as mentioned earlier, was entirely synonymous – quite cliché – with what happened in 2012, when the Senter Party sat with the Minister of Agriculture. Now neither the Workers' Party nor the Center Party will talk about what happened in 2012. When the farmers' organisations then chose not to sit down at the table, Lars Peder Breck was very clear, just as clearly as our Minister of Agriculture and Food, Olug Bollestad. He also said that you have to sit down to the table and try. At the time, the offer was standing. What has happened to the Center Party anno 2021? When I met Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum to debate in the NRK a few weeks ago, he suddenly said that it was now about a government that was hostile to agriculture. Then I wonder: Was Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum's party, the Senterpartiet, and the Arbeiderpartiet and SV hostile to agriculture in 2012, when they let the offer stand? What makes the play of the Battle of Vedum even worse was that he hurled at the same moment that they would give 1 billion. In addition, kr. We know this is an optional bottle, and it smells like a lot of this choice bottle. We also know that there will never be any of this billion. It's because the Workers' Party is more sober. They're actually not part of this Jippo, fortunately, and the Workers' Party should have the credit for it, even if they don't stay on the line from 2012. They will send the settlement back to the government to try to renegotiate, but it is not very realistic. We know that the farmers' organizations are not there at all. I record that it is a choice and that principles stand in the way of a fall. 1 billion. kr – I really hope no one goes on the lipstick.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1131	Right at this moment, there's drought in Brazil and dry in large parts of the United States, two of the big food nations in the world on the agricultural side. We don't have to go back any further than 2007-2008, when central crops on corn, soya and wheat got a drop internationally. The prices of these three completely basic foods, both for us as people and in the food for animals, were doubled or tripled. In 2018, we had a major challenge in our own food safety when it was dry in Norway. That crisis taught us some important lessons that will form the basis for a new course, so that we will provide ordinary people's need for security if we get a new majority after this election. That drought crisis showed us in 2018, was that fortunately it was possible for some people who had access to landslides to get out of that situation more easily. It shows that flexibility in the use of the field is an important part of our common preparedness and access to food. That is why we are strengthening the bet on both set ring and set-aside in our alternative course. Norway is particularly vulnerable to food supply for two reasons. First of all, we have little soil. Secondly, our country is located so that it is easy to cut off the seaway. It's happened several times in history. During World War I, Norway was neutral. Nevertheless, there was a famine in Norway because the submarine war helped to make it difficult to transport grain to our country. During World War II, food preparedness policy was better, so that the first period did not become disastrous in terms of access to, for example, food. cereals. It's important learning to take with you. For now we have just seen that when there is a shortage of access to something as simple as a mouthband, those countries that have excess of mouthband will not share them. It works the same way with food, we saw it in 2007-2008. Then Russia, Brazil, the United States, Ukraine, all the central countries, put in place measures to ensure that their population was secure food, if possible, even harder price increases and shortages. It's common people's turn to safety. It's time for a new course in agricultural policy, built on the country we are, so that the preparedness for you and me will be better.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1144	People need food. Without food security, we are also without security. Therefore, the Centre Party believes that the only right thing to do is to ensure Norwegian food production. Then we need farmers with income to live off. I am genuinely concerned about the future of agriculture. There is a generation change in industry. People who have put their minds into keeping the earth and resources in claim, late and early, without being free in red days or having the security of what the income becomes, despite the hard work, are at risk of becoming minimum pensioners. This in itself weakens the basis for recruitment and future food production. If we are to ensure Norwegian food production with both small and large uses throughout the country, where resources and soil lay the basis for production, the income must be increased. The pay must be up, both for the farmer and for the redeemer. Often there are two more redeemers to do the job as one farmer. The basis for calculation is out of date and needs to be renewed. The centre party believes that the basis of the agricultural notification has not been properly followed up by today's government. It is typically right to believe that imports and free trade agreements will sort out, but preparedness is not bought in a desperate market with food shortages. The centre party wishes to see a stepping-up plan for the income development of the farmers. In addition, welfare systems need to be strengthened. It is about the possibility of establishing a family combined with being a self-employed person, an opportunity to live a normal life in the same way as other occupational groups. The basis for the farm and the household income may not be based on income from non-agricultural sources, which either either on the farm or both of them receive through work outside the farm. The costs on the bottom line have increased more than the income. Requirements for efficiency also push farmers out of the industry. Under 3 pst. the area in Norway is arable and must be valued. There will be fewer and fewer farmers, and that will have to end. We need a professional environment, and we need a community. We need a strong agricultural industry. There is a discussion about the timing of the escalation plan. The centre party wants a new government to present a new agricultural notification with a new numerical basis, with a time-fixed plan. We have to have the right basis on the table, so we know what this will cost, and when we can get it into place. Food production is not carried out in a vacuum. Food chains, customs protection, trade agreements, agricultural settlements, agricultural organisations and legislation set the framework. We need to update the number of hours per year. The peasant revolt is obvious. We believe that both steel subsidies, landslides and investment funds are important. People need food.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1161	Norwegian food production needs to be strengthened. We need to enable agriculture to deliver on its social mission, which is safe, healthy food, a living cultural landscape and active communities. We need to increase Norwegian food production to at least 50 pst. self-sufficiency, based on Norwegian feed raw materials, by 2026. To achieve that goal, another force must be applied. The Minister for Agriculture said that as the Farmers would not sit down at the negotiating table, there can be no changes here. She is negotiable at all points. Hasn't the ministry followed the situation in Norwegian agriculture in spring? Have they not seen the peasant revolt and the organizations' challenge of landing this? If one is so negotiable, one has a total bomb on the starting point. One has to provide a starting point that makes it possible to settle down and one has to respect the need for organisations to take the mood of the member base seriously. That's what the industry did when they saw that it was too little to negotiate and not possible to start with the starting point that was there. In agriculture, we have to have a numerical basis that shows the real economic situation of the farmers. Expenses for rent and lease allowances and capital must be made more visible. A capable pawn must have a proper estimate for his work. This is linked to – and strongly warned against – the major changes that were made in 2014. Then these costs came to a completely different level than they have been before, making people not aware of. It's the farmers who have been betting, trying and doing as the government would, who are now really getting up and saying: this is no longer going, because we're not getting this to stick together. We don't get time to be family people because the situation is like that. I noticed that the case spokesperson was very busy in 2012. I can promise that I will think well in 2012. But I also think 2014 well – and 2017, when they actually went in and changed a fraction because it was willing to. They could have done that this year, too, if that was the goal – if they really wanted to lift Norwegian food production. When a person hears the brilliance of agricultural well-being, the government party must have selective hearing. I have contact with farmers almost every day, and that is not the message I get from those who really want, those who have done as the government said – bet, extra. Today it was considered a success factor that there are, on average, 40 cows operating in the West. I guess that's the problem. They have a non-adapted operating size and a topography. It is one of the major challenges of today's agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1176	Some parties have seen the need to establish their own hedgehog traveling around the country and the beach, visiting farms and producers and boasting unhindered by all the good products produced by Norwegian agriculture. It's a joke I end up whole-hearted about. Unfortunately, the government's offer shows that this apparent enthusiasm for Norwegian agriculture and its products does not mean the same as an understanding that Norwegian agriculture does not come about by itself. It simply doesn't mean to say hi or that you're proud of Norwegian agriculture. It is the practical policy that determines whether we should have what agriculture we know as well, and a safe, Norwegian food production tomorrow. It is the practical policy that ensures that food is produced throughout the country — both conventional bulk products, organic food and high-quality niche products. It is important that we are all aware of what is at the root of the agriculture we have, and that it is the policy that is being pursued today, which is the answer to what agriculture and our country will look like tomorrow. Many farmers are in great need of modernising farm equipment, both in livestock and plant production. The potential of investment funds through Innovation Norway must therefore be increased, as proposed by the Central Party, in the revised national budget. For example, the State must: contribute to the fulfilment of the unbundling requirement, even for minor uses. Increased investment in agriculture will be an important activity-creating measure also for other parts of the economy. Agriculture has concluded a climate agreement with the government as its sole industry. With this settlement, the government fails that agreement. One does not cross two sticks to help agriculture achieve the objectives it has set. One does not contribute incentives to conversion or other measures that can help increase food production and reduce emissions. It's too bad. It may not be that agriculture as the sole industry is to fulfil the agreement unilaterally, while the government is to wash its hands. This settlement has been marked by great impatience, drama and uprising peasants throughout the country. It shows that many are in the process of getting enough, and that you feel that the future is at stake both for yourself and for future food producers. It is alarming not only for individual farmers but also for social developments and whether we are able to achieve the goal of increasing food production and self-sufficiency. This year's break is a symptom that something is seriously wrong with Norwegian agricultural policy after eight years with the Right, the Progress Party and their two supporting parties. What we need now is an obliging escalation plan that closes the income gap to other groups and ensures an annual chronic development that contributes to the rise of agriculture at the same level of income as other groups in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1193	What does Norwegian agriculture expect? Today's debate feels essentially like history's debate. We've been to World War I and World War II. I don't know if we ever get into the Crimean War, that's what time will show. We debate as if in the future we can use the means of the past. History error writing is also an entry. Among other things, it is forgotten from the Labour Party representative that one of the reasons we did not starve in Norway during the war was the import of rye from Denmark and Germany. Once again, trade was one of the most important security of our supply and food security. At the same time, I feel that in the debate we are forgetting that agriculture is undergoing a ham change as large as when the tractor came and took over for the horse, and the green revolution of the 1970s. Operation is modified. Industry 4.0 is also agricultural 4.0. Sensors, automation and automation will take over for what we've always done. The need for labour, especially seasonal labour, will be greatly reduced, especially in some forms of operation. Is our structure adapted to this, or will it make it not hang out with? The market is changing, food consumption is now falling per person. There's nothing mysterious about it. A weak trend with transition from meat to plant can be reinforced. A more complex population lowers demand for products we produce ourselves, like milk, and increases by rice, maize and soya. Is our structure and market alignment adapted to this, or are we moving towards an imbalance that reduces the potential of Norwegian agriculture? The distribution is changed. Our digital everyday life allows the farmer to cut intermediates and communicate directly with the consumer and sell directly to the consumer. Previously, in the debate, the farmer, by choosing to sell himself in the REKO ring, can get three times more for his product. Networking and delivery are also increasing in the food market. This challenges the very basic structure of the Norwegian food value chain. Do we realize that this is about to happen, or do we put all the eggs in the curve on a structure created in the 1950s and 1960s? Trust changes through transparency. Reputation is influenced by the worst examples, and digitisation makes them more visible. Tomorrow's conscious consumers are going to be more aware of what our food will be like, as we've seen recently. Are we ready for that? The crop gap is too big. We're used to looking at Norwegian agriculture as the world's best. But as the NIBIO report on the 2019 crop gap shows: when we together with Finland have the biggest gap in the Nordic region between possible crop and actual crop yield, we have a challenge. As a last resort, all of this is if we seize them – opportunities for higher grain production, higher production and profitability, higher self-sufficiency, better knowledge, lower distribution costs, better understanding and dialogue and lower climate emissions. But it requires that we turn our gaze around and spend more time facilitating Norwegian agriculture to take advantage of the opportunities of the future, not copying the structures of the past. It can only happen in dialogue, where instead of asking where we were yesterday, we ask where we want to be, and where we're going to be by 2030.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1210	The centre party points to a stronger focus on the importance of food safety and preparedness in recent years. We have promoted a number of requirements to strengthen preparedness, including: for food. The Centre Party shall promote the following proposals: ‘The government is asked to draw up a stepping-up plan for safe food production in Norwegian resources.’ ‘The government is asked to provide a risk and vulnerability analysis taking into account that the global food market is more affected by geopolitical developments, climate change and other unforeseen circumstances.’ How are we going to increase the self-sufficiency of meat in e.g.: Finnmark? It's not enough if we have a little bit, we have to have enough over time. Catastrophes can happen, and then we have to rock. The Centre Party points out that in order to have jobs, housing and value creation throughout the country, Norway is dependent on an adapted structure of milk and meat production based on the exploitation of herds and herds of bovine, ovine and caprine animals. The centre part points to the fact that the number of dairy farmers has halved in the last 14 years. In 2034, all Norwegian milk producers will be subject to the decommissioning requirement and already in 2024 there will be requirements that will result in the need for poultry conversion. I had a meeting with the peasant uprising and heard their demands. The centre party believes that we are overtime to make a real effort on the smaller dairy farmers before it's too late, and to create predictability and confidence in the future for those facing a generation change. A wage for living is important, and a variety of poultry and operations are important in order to increase safety and preparedness. We have to see the relationship between the imposed state gives, and what these burdens cost the individual farmer. As it is now, the farmer does not have so he meets all the needs of a family. Many have to work with other things as well. The progress party says that it is not so careful about agriculture that only the meat is cheap to the consumer. For its own part, this vision becomes completely hopeless. People must have work, people must get clean food, and farmers must have money to live a worthwhile life. We can do all of this if we are in Norwegian. If we want agriculture in Finnmark, Troms and the whole country, we have to do something about it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1230	I guess not so many people disagree that the farmer has to have an income to live on, but it's a question of how to get there, and I'm not sure if the center party's slightly archaic entrance until that's what meets the need. I think that a little bit of what's the challenge in the future is that, given Norwegian raw materials, we have to secure protein that's short-range. Short-term protein will improve the profitability of both agriculture and fish farming. Through those synergies, we have some possibilities. I believe that what has been used, for example, on the basic level, as in the Mæra agricultural school, where they are trying to get to that very thing with short-range protein, will be one of the things that will enable agriculture to get on the offensive. I'm a little worried when many from the Center Party get up here today and talk down Norwegian agriculture. Early in the 1990s, I came home and took over a farm. Then there were such conditions that people talked it down around the kitchen tables. It was the Gunhild eyega that was then the Council of State. It wasn't much optimism to track in the industry. Everything was black. Everything was regulated. It was talked down. I'm left with a bit of that piece today. Much of the industry has gone well. And yes, there are some challenges, especially with regard to the debt burden in Norwegian agriculture today. It's a challenge. It's a challenge for those who haven't invested. It is not and cannot be a popular requirement that all minor uses should have a milking robot, but it is clear that everyone must comply with the release requirement by 2034. Then we have to help each other to see if there are any other possibilities to build more reasonably than what we are doing today, because the cost growth in agriculture has been enormous. What in many ways saves the situation is that we have had a predictable government from government and state by keeping a low interest rate burden, and it has benefited agriculture greatly. Obviously, there are some dark clouds if we can't crack those challenges, but there's definitely no need to talk down on agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1245	It is regrettable that the Centre Party's loose proposal for an obliging temporal escalation plan for sealing the income gap is not fixed by year. From my experience from the Norwegian agricultural policy debate, from the Hitra action in 1975 to today, it has proved to be absolutely necessary. Year-on-year festivities are neither unreasonable nor stupid, as was stated in the Newspaper The Nations online today early. On the contrary, it is absolutely necessary and in accordance with the requirements of the annual meeting of the Norwegian Bondelag. The density of the revenue gap must occur during the forthcoming grubbing-up period. This wording must therefore be included in any Government Declaration in which the Party of the Centre is involved. The work for this requirement must continue, and the peasant uprising needs to be furthered towards the decision-making process. Fortunately, the opposition on Stortinget, the Senterpartiet, Arbeiderpartiet, SV, MDG and Rødt have agreed on a binding escalation plan of the degree of maritime supply, from around 40 p.m. today. to 50 pst. There we have set a platform for what we want with Norwegian agriculture in the future. It has major implications for Norway’s appearance. We get a Norway that looks a lot more like what people want, a Norway that's modern, that's open, that looks like Switzerland. There's talk of quota caps and those who want to bet. As the representative Nils Bjørke said, I would just like to stress that the production of livestock products in Norway must be based on Norwegian land. Right-wing representatives don't think it's that important. But it is Norwegian agriculture – it is to tug livestock production on Norwegian land, owned or rented. Too many of those so-called rates today are on behalf of areas in Brazil. As a result, the degree of maritime supply and preparedness in Norway is weakened every year. This has to be turned around. To say a little about the figures: the Reitan Group and the Norway Group had an increased surplus of 2.4 billion in 2020. kr. Compared to the agricultural figure, calculated by the Agricultural Budget Item, it would mean that one had had 14 pst. increase in remuneration for work and capital that year. We need to focus on the whole value chain. We need a change, so that those who are responsible for primary production and the food industry get their share of it, so that it becomes attractive to work in production. The chains must take their share – we are interested in them – but today’s distribution is completely wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1260	As an attachment to Prop. Today, we are also dealing with an up-to-date soil protection strategy. It is less than two months since the Stortinget discussed a central party proposal to improve food conservation by setting a new soil protection target. For us who know the political game at Stortinget, it is a well-known case that the opposition is using representative proposals to bring the government to the fore when they know that there will soon be a case that will receive positive attention. The same was true of this proposal. A new up-to-date soil protection strategy has long been announced by the government after the target of a maximum of 4000 decare re-disposable land per year in the current strategy was reached for the third consecutive year of 2019. This shows that the government is pursuing an offensive soil protection policy. We in the Christian People's Party will therefore give the government credit for taking this important part of a comprehensive policy for a future-oriented Norwegian agriculture one step further. It is also in line with the UN's sustainability objectives, which obliges us to maintain the basis for food production in response to climate change and an increasing number of people on earth. It helps to strengthen Norway’s ability to master regional yield weights and failures in imports and domestic transport in the event of a crisis. It's forward-looking policies for the generations that come after us. We are pleased that the government of the updated soil protection strategy will ensure that the annual re-disposal of cultivated land does not exceed 3000 deches and that the objective is to be achieved by 2025. At the same time, it is positive that the government announces the preparation of new national expectations for regional and municipal planning under the Planning and Building Act within two years. Such clear governance signals from national authorities are important when politicians in municipalities and county councils are to make their balances between soil protection considerations, industrial interests and the need for new infrastructure. Furthermore, we believe it is positive that the government will also continue its efforts to increase plan competence in Norwegian municipalities in order to contribute to an increased focus on effective soil protection. The role of agriculture in the ongoing work on soil protection is also addressed in the updated soil protection strategy. It is important for municipalities to be given clarification of when the concession obligation arises under the law on the concession contracts for agricultural and arable land. Furthermore, we believe that it is a right and important step when the government announces that it will be facilitated to significantly intensify the practice of the land laws on land re-disposal in terms of agriculture's own degradation. Like the majority of the business committee, the Christian People's Party also joins in the goal of soil protection proposed by the government. We believe that this is both ambitious and realistic.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1278	We are now discussing the agricultural settlement. Earlier today, the Council of State has presented measures to improve animal welfare in pig production. Without going into a line of argument for or against one or the other, I think it is important that we manage to see these matters in the context. Even more important, I think it's that we talk about things that are absolutely essential to us, but that are rarely on the agenda. I greatly appreciate the fact that the Council of State lifted the concept of one health. We need to be much more aware that animal health and human health are closely linked, not least in the development of antibiotic resistance, which is called the silent pandemic. The centre party will work actively for closer cooperation between the Swedish Institute of Public Health, the Swedish Veterinary Institute, the Food Authority and others, and that will benefit both Norwegian producers and the rest of the population. We need safe, traceable Norwegian food, and it needs to be further processed in Norway. So I'll give you some personal considerations. I live on a farm on the Helgeland coast. We're dealing with cows and we're producing milk and meat. Otherwise, I have been a veterinarian in small and large-scale practices for many years, until the policy took over. I have attended a lot of meetings in local peasant teams, producer teams, dismissal teams and other meetings over the years. What's a little bit characteristic of it is that when people talk in the breaks, they talk about the tractor, the punching machine and the round ball press. That's well and good, but to put it on the head, I think it's a bit of a shame that no one talks about how the cow or their pig actually has it. They rarely discuss the things that go on the animal's actual welfare. I have to make it clear that I believe that the vast majority of animals are doing very well. Still, we're not talking about it, and that's what I think is important. It must be tough to boast of how good it is in the feather. Some of the problem may be that farmers no longer visit each other's face. Especially in pig herds, what we know is very strict infection measures. You don't want to be implicated in the poultry. In the cabins it is not as strict, but you want to protect the crew as much as possible. You do not visit each other, and this does not mean that you do not share the experience of each other's operations. Then it happens that Bonde-Per and Bonde-Pål in the same meeting talk about a common problem, in the belief that they both have the same assumptions, but that's not the case. One can be best in the class as we see it from the outside, while the other may have had a very bad start and a lot to it, which makes it difficult to get it around financially. You've ended up a little on the wrong side, you may not be doing illegal things, but not the way we would have liked it to be done. Every day to Norwegian farmers is different, and my message is that I hope we can talk about it and be more proud to talk about how our animals are doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1291	It has recently speeded up a peasant revolt across the country, and it has made the impression of hearing the farmers' stories. In Rogaland, Sven Martin Håland has gone to the front to ask politicians to look at the calculation basis. He and others have been aware that this is something that has grown slowly, but surely over several decades. Today the government shows that they are listening, and I am pleased that there is agreement to look into this. Because we believe in the Norwegian farmer. I come from the food and energy capital of Rogaland, which delivers from earth and fjord to table. Matfatet Jären, Ryfylke, Dalane, Stavanger region and Haugalandet – a Tuscan in miniature. Four years ago, a right-wing agricultural network was set up to promote products produced by livestock farmers and producers. It was a little bit because there were many new ones on Stortinget that needed knowledge. I myself had a job with recruiting and HR, and we had teachers and police on the team. After that time I have been so lucky to travel around the country and see and experience food production in several parts of the country. Pride has shown farmers their own work and presented an industry, both for good and for bad. What Norway we all know from Freia's milk chocolate becomes so infinitely more powerful when you get to experience it closely. It's the story of food, the history of culture and the history of nature. Some agricultural products have increased world-wide, and others can benefit from this. At the same time, we have to work on further developing the concepts of meal tourism and meal export. We want more people to experience the Norwegian meal, with long traditions and a rich cultural heritage. Norway is a destination in the world. The cooks are good ambassadors for the food, and it's touching to hear when they tell how they're most reverently allowed to produce the food and tell the story behind how it's been produced. Had everyone had the same approach to Norwegian food as Norwegian cooks, many more of us had eaten more Norwegian food. For Norwegian food the seller. But we need more knowledge, and we have to say that the Norwegian food is one of the cleanest things we can get because there is so little use of antibiotics and syringes. Several European countries continue to high levels of use of antibiotics in Norway. It actually means something about what we put in our shopping cart. At the same time, both the young female farmer we recently met and I have to be allowed to have the avocado to the Friday taco without creating false contradictions. It must be allowed to enjoy cheese from Danish Bo Jensen on Jären, along with both pairing machines and serranoskinke, and none of us have hurt to eat more fish. We need diversity. That's all good reason today to thank the Norwegian farmer for the food and for the work they're doing, and that's all good reason to say: we've heard you, and we're going to continue the good dialogue with you. Together, we can develop the history of Norway, where food, culture and nature are lifted up and down and out in the big world.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1310	Representatives Bjørke and Bjørnstad have challenged the Christian People's Party that we do not act in the same way in 2021 as we did in 2017. What's the reason for that? Christian People's Party does not wave. We are consistent in our agricultural policy. In 2017, the situation was that the Stortinget week before the agricultural settlement was to be negotiated had adopted a new income target for agriculture. The income target, which remains, is to reduce the income gap between agriculture and other social groups. Then the government delivered an offer that was not in line with the recently adopted income target, which the government parties had also voted in favour of – that was unanimity in the Stortinget when the income target was set – and we in the Christian People's Party proposed to raise the figure to SEK 790 million. kr, which would correspond to a chronically similar development between agriculture and other groups. It is the exact same principle that is used in this year's offer, where the offer ensures a chronically equal development. In 2014, the Christian People's Party believed it was good to point out that the government was in a minority and had to deal with an agricultural majority on the Stortinget. That's why we went a little bit higher. Having said that, I would like to stress that our cooperation with the Agriculture and Food Ministers from the Progress Party has been very good. At least it's my experience. I would like to commend Jon Georg Dale as a good and pragmatic Minister of Agriculture and Food. Unfortunately, Mr. Hoksrud did not have time to show what he was good for, so very long, but also in the dialogue we had with Hoksrud, it worked very well. So just eventually also a little bit back to 2012, which the representative Bjørke was in on. Then, too, the situation was that there was a big message from the government that defined an income target. Then came the offer in 2012, and the red-greens did not deliver on the income target they themselves had written in the paper. Then in the Christian People's Party, as the only party, we chose to propose that the settlement be returned to the parties for a new round. We stand for that. We thought that was a good policy at the time, and we believe that today. As regards the degree of self-sufficiency up to 50 p.p., there is reason to recall what the Nation wrote on 16 April 2013: ‘The proportion of Norwegian-produced food, based on Norwegian agricultural resources, has dropped from 48 to 40 percent since 2005’. In other words, what the red-greens supplied on self-sufficiency was a real magazine after eight years of power.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1323	Agricultural policy can be difficult to understand many times, but we must not make it more difficult than it really is. We all agree that we should have a review of the model for measuring income level, gap and development. But if we go back to the setting in the case, it says on page 10, in the comments from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV, that ‘the review of the data base is important to prevent the emergence in practice of economic drivers pushing agricultural property prices upwards to make it even more capital-intensive for young people to enter the industry’. On the same side, the same batches also say that ‘there is a need to close the revenue gap’. I think this is interesting. In fact, it is normal that if the income from the business activity increases, the farmer's willingness to pay for allowances, land and properties also increases, and the value of the enterprise is also increased. It is therefore not possible to close the revenue gap and increase the performance without increasing the value of the farm, for the value of the farm is the present value of the farm's future performance. Then I have to say I'm wondering something, because here it seems to me that the goal of the review of the numbers by the opposition is not to increase the incomes of the peasants, because it can't do without increasing the value of the farm. We can also state that either the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV do not believe that they want to close the income gap – because that will lead to exactly what they do not want to happen: an increase in the value of the farm – or they do not believe what is at the top of the page that property prices should not be raised. But a possible alternative is to remove the income gap by reducing the wages of the industrial worker. Then one could have achieved both parts at the same time. But I don't think that's what they're going to do. It would have been interesting to get an explanation from the red-green lots: shall the income of the farmer up, or shall it down? And if it should rise, as in their proposal, how will one then prevent the value of the farm from rising?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1337	There has been a long debate, but I got some questions that I want to answer a little bit. I was asked if the Minister of Agriculture had not read the drawing with an agricultural uprising. Well, the Minister of Agriculture read it, it was a drawing, but the Minister of Agriculture also read the agricultural agreement, and there it is that we negotiate with the parties. I also believe that the agricultural uprising should be related to this. Then I take most seriously what has emerged in the agricultural uprising. Last year it was produced as much food as we have never produced before in our country. It's important for us to keep going. Agriculture is actually an important part of our preparedness. The peasants turn around when we get a crisis, and contribute to the preparedness. Self-sufficiency is an important part of this job. Indeed, the level of self-sufficiency was higher in 2020 than in 2010–2013. So we don't have to describe it as just going down. There's actually a lot of things that affect whether you get an increased degree of self-sufficiency. It's said on page 19 of the proposition, and it's okay to have with it. I also think that we should be sober in the use of numbers, when one says from the pulpit that there is more and more space going out of use, and that there is a very centralization. Now it's not that I'm just going to look back, but it put down 470,000 decare land during the last government period to the red-green. It has actually increased, but weak, I would say, under this government. The grain area was reduced by 360 000 pieces under the previous government. This remained stable, despite the drought in 2018, and has increased by 66 000 dekar in 2020. It shows us that the policy actually works and we can take action to increase self-sufficiency. I believe that, regardless of which side we are on in the policy, it is an important contribution – to facilitate the optimal use of grassland, to have the lowest possible area of it in good grain areas, precisely to reverse the trend and to ensure that we get the best use of the land. It makes us get predictable production, and it also makes us able to use the land in the right way for future generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1348	I was born on a farm, a small farm on Eiker in Buskerud, and then I lived for a while and followed agricultural policy with interest since the 1970s. The incredible thing is that the challenges facing Norwegian agriculture in the 1970s still apply. One can almost just record old documents – turn the pile. SVs Berge Furre, who was then the head of the Committee on Agriculture, talked about marine storage, less imports of power feed, short-range food, support for the smaller uses, that Norway’s advantage should be much more exploited. We are in the same situation today. SV says: Forget the crazy big business and the crazy efficiency hunt, which affects both the health of people and animals. Norway cannot compete on quantity; we can compete on quality. By quality, I mean safe food, non-toxic food, good animal health, good animal welfare, better soil management, greater environmental considerations – an administration that is put into a thousand-year perspective. Then, just as the representative Lundtigen said, we have to protect customs protection so that prices can be taken up. We have to call about disadvantaged use, less use, the combined use, and of course we have to develop further processing of products and information to the consumer about what they get with Norwegian products. The agricultural system is something that all in Norway should be concerned about, whether they live in towns or rural areas, for agriculture is district policy. When the agricultural profession is so poorly paid, or the working conditions, such as the redundancy and holiday arrangements, are too poor, people move to the cities. I guess no one has earned it, that the pressure on housing, welfare services and other things is only increasing in cities. This is, of course, part of the whole development of society. And then we're going to ask what the actual calculation is, if all of these socio-economic numbers get into the calculation. Maybe a real reward for those who produce the food, and who populate living settlements, is a small price to pay. In this context, maybe 1 billion is. kr pretty little - yes, almost zero. It is wonderful to see that another peasant uprising has speeded up the debate and stirred up entrenched ideas in the negotiating institute and in the big crowd. I remember very well the first, the Hitra uprising, where SV was also a good support player. We need to get a contingency plan for agricultural incomes and to work out a new basis for the calculation of incomes. As far as I am concerned, everything suggests that apples and pears are compared when the incomes of the farmers are compared with other groups. I have raised this point in a written question to the Council of State, and it is in red-green proposals today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1361	I have to answer the Minister for Agriculture first. I said: the farmers' uprising and the atmosphere in the organizations when a delivered claim this year – that's what I said. I don't mean that one should just listen to the insurrection. The point was that I think the organizations take the mood seriously, and they're going to take on the serious situation in their own member masses. That's what I mean a not answered well enough. It's great that Right has an agricultural network that travels around the country and sees, it's to be praised. But then they should listen, and see the whole picture, not just what fits into history. The farmers are on, they produce, and it's good with direct sales, both the Bond's market and REKO rings. But just to tell the success stories and not the real story out there – there's nothing that frustrates a farmer so much. I can say that, who has lived as a farmer all his life, and in addition, young people who have listened to you, and have a bet. One sees the work situation they are today. They're busy with animal welfare, they've got well over 300 sheep, it's a loss for each lamb they can't live. But they jump, because they have to have milk production as well – they jump and they jump. This is not viable if we want an animal welfare at the top. We're going to have an antibiotic use that's at the bottom, we're going to deliver the best food in the world, but then it also has to pay off. There is a problem today that farmers do not know about, and then there is no development in agriculture. We see the statistics say that the area is in use, but there's a lot of places just puss over. It's released on some sheep, and it's made some round balls, but the earth isn't operational. There's a difference between what's needed to get a production supplement and what's needed to really drive food production on that area. There are so many places, more and more of the area, the grazing resources in the field are not used because we import power supplies instead. Then we'll have to take it seriously. It's not enough to talk about producing the most possible food, we need to talk about how we produce that food. We see that more and more of the fruit and green production is being moved to large and flat areas because it is imperative to drive in steep hills. Driving fruit production in the West is more demanding than on flat Austland. But where does one create the best cultural landscape, which creates the basis for travel life and the country to come? Yeah, it's taking care of these. Then we have to talk about it honestly, we have to do something about it if the farmers are to venture on and love to join in. And it would only be missing if not even the farmers could have a weekday where one could have a family life as well as being a farmer. It may not be like this for 24 hours a day to be able to live as a pawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1372	SV goes in and supports proposal No. 33 and 34. We've been blamed for being tall and dark in agricultural policy, because we have a bad time, we're impatient. We want to commit Stortinget to a four-year escalation plan. The reason why SV has come to that conclusion is that we have to do it. When we are in a situation today where agricultural development is going wrong, when we hear from farmers that the situation is critical, when we see that in my county, Troms, it has our downturn in profitability three consecutive years due to low prices and increased costs, assisted by the policy that is being pursued, then we know that we have to turn around. The medium-term effect of the reverse operation must be rapid. We've got a bad time. Then we've all been told here before that we're going to reduce the income gap – without anything significant happening. What agriculture needs now is a clear message and a commitment from Stortinget that we are now going to make a stepping-up plan. That's why we propose it in SV. We have to adapt the production to the area we have. Then the farmer must have an income that makes it lucrative, and social arrangements that make it viable to stand in the profession. Then a comment to the representative Nilsen. What is the situation today is that we are not using the biological resources we have in this country. Whether you're interested in industry, taking advantage of the area we have to build a bio-industry, both when it comes to food, product, materials, etc., you have to have a production that's spread all over the country. Since we have large biological resources in Norway, we have to build a spread, we have to create a spread build where one exploits and sustains these resources, so that they can contribute to both food production and industry otherwise. It is the road to future industrial production. It is not going through the continuation of a centralisation policy that this government puts forward, where more and more of our biological resources are not being used, where we rely more on industrial production abroad. It is at best ‘outsourcing’ of our own industry and our own food production, which we have seen over a long period of time. We must have a development in agriculture where the developments in the counties like Troms are reversed, from that 40 pst. The land has been taken out of use, so that the farmer suddenly becomes profitable, taking back the area that is, which is actually some of the best pastures in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1389	The world was a little more open three years ago when the Right Agricultural Network could invite the Farmers to lunch to settle what we thought was a negative agricultural debate. Since that time you've heard the in and out breathing here from this pulpit that we've traveled around the room. It's a little strange that when Battle Violence Vedum comes with the cup of coffee, it's a advantage, while it's not quite as trusting when there's women from the Right who travel around and do the same. As a politician, it is important to meet people in all industries. It is possible that Geir Pollestad should also travel around to see what is going on in that quite country, rather than score cheap points to post photos of himself on Facebook in front of the cheese counter and insinuate that the Prime Minister will not promote Norwegian products. Contraryities do not serve anyone, nor does it serve agricultural policy. And our voters deserve a fair debate. Before the 2013 elections, the Centerpartie came with a number of doomsday prophecies on behalf of Norwegian agriculture. Today, Norwegian agriculture is far better than it was under the control of the Centre Party. The closure of agricultural holdings has been severely slowed down, the average growth of agricultural production has more than tripled, and the average redistribution of agricultural land has fallen by more than 30 pst. The red-green favorites to create the impression that this government wants centralization, while the small farms flourished during their reign. That's not the case at all. The government has now provided for a diverse use structure, where there is room for both small, medium-sized and large-scale use, adapted to the resource base. We have further reinforced the channelling policy and turned the development under the red-green, as the grasslands in the grain regions increased. And if we see the entire period of Solberg government as a whole, the budget support per cow has increased two to three times more for use with 15 cows than it has for use with 60 cows or more. Food production in Norway has never been higher than now. The turnover of local food has increased more than the rest of the daily food market. Side producers fought for 10 to 15 years to obtain direct sales. They've now had that opportunity. With this rear carpet, the Workers' Party and the Center Party are now in charge of a change of direction, which we have heard throughout the day. Before selecting a direction change, you may want to look back at the number of digits. The grass is rarely much greener on the other side, but it is enough of those who are trying to lure and operate with overbidden policies. In this case, the farmers are losing on it – a situation we unfortunately also had in 2012. At that time, the Workers' Party and the Center Party were overthrown. Everything was simply not better before, and no one knows as said where the hare jumps.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1406	The representative of Nils Kristen Sandrøen has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1411	The representative Ebbesen had a very good question, and it was about how we're going to make sure that there's an increase in labour income for those who are active in the industry without increasing the price pressure on the properties and thus more capital-intensive to enter. We have to do that through the whole of politics. We can use the forest as an example of how it shouldn't be. There it is that there is no price control on pure forest properties. This means that capital forces can be built up, regardless of the income base of that agricultural property. We have to prevent this from happening here, because then we're going to have a development in how many young people in practice are being shut out, and where we're going over time to an AS farm. The Labour Party is critical of this. We believe that the Norwegian agricultural model must be based on personal ownership. So this is important to make sure if you're going to make fundamental changes in how we calculate income.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1421	I think it's important in this case to focus on what we're actually debating, that's agricultural policy 2021, and for farmers most, it's money as a bill. The Centre Party has submitted its alternative proposal. It will reduce the income gap by NOK 25 000 with today's calculation model. So it might be nice to remind you that the distance down to the next party in the nutrition committee is about NOK 10,000. In addition, the impact of extra investment aid is important to take into account. There is a lot of good in the setting, and I'm glad that the Center Party and the Workers' Party have a number of important proposals together, and that the Center Party, the Workers' Party and the SV are also together on a lot of key issues. I would like to talk about one of the annexes to this year's agricultural policy, that is, the soil protection strategy, because one of the most important things we can do in terms of preparedness is to take care of the resources where we produce food. One has a target, but unfortunately one has not reached that goal in the last two years. Now you want to set a new target, of 3000 pieces per year. It's a step in the right direction, but it's not good enough. When the Center Party put forward its proposal, we wanted to have a halving target down to 2,000 decs. We also pointed out some of the obvious weaknesses of today’s measurement methods, including: how to report it. One has cultivated land that is lost in terms of food, which is not reported, and then has a land that is reported but not built in. So getting a better picture of what the real degradation of cultivated land is, I think it's very, very important. The center party had hoped that there was a multiple to bring it down to a half-way goal, but we note that at least there is a willingness to go down to 3,000 dean. Soil protection is long-term work, it's not a smart fix. I think that in this debate too much has said that because one leads such a policy, one 1000 more covers one or the other. Agriculture is more long-term than that. It's about where, it's about farmers' priorities, and then it's about politics. But one cannot take everything to income for one's own policies. When it comes to soil protection, it's like this will take time, and what's dangerous now is that the trend seems to be going in the wrong direction. Then we'll have to turn him around. We must reduce the degradation of cultivated land. The time when a user cultivates land to build industry, parking spaces and dwellings should be over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1438	There is no doubt that one in agriculture is now in a difficult situation, not least in the run-up to the agricultural settlement – or the settlement that was no settlement – the actual situation. Our most important task – I would like to stress this – is to facilitate, in my view, and in the view of the Workers' Party, that we have a food production adapted to Norway. Adapted Norway means that we must have an agricultural sector that is all over the country but also exploits the marginal resources around us. When representatives go to the pulpit and say that the size and what has happened around allowances, concessions and subsidies has not had anything to say, it is wrong. When we have milk quotas of 900,000 tonnes in Telemark, I ask myself the question: where are we going to take that production without it going at the expense of the goal of a country-wide agriculture, or the whole state, and where are we also exploiting the marginal resources? We in the Workers' Party are opposed to industrialized agriculture. We cancelled that already in 1902, during Hornsrud's Earth program that time. Since that's not what we've been thinking about, because it cuts out of what we want agriculture to be at. When the Christian People's Party celebrates the agricultural policy of the Advance Party from the pulpit today, I am startled. It is the legacy of the Progress Party in the agricultural offices that is why we are there. If you want to understand some of the voices that are out there now, there are voices who have tried to adapt to the government's agricultural policy, led by the Progress Party, and who are unable to do so. They don't get economics in it, that's the situation. We have to do something about it, we have to go to the concession limit, grants and quotas and adapt it to Norway. Then we can get the focus on animal welfare, good production and farmers who have an income to live on, that we can manage to close the income gap. Then there must also be confidence in the number of the Budgetary Unit. I believe that we have hit it in a good way in the setting that exists. It is absolutely essential that we do it. The most important thing we can do now is to delete as soon as possible all the documents in the Ministry of Agriculture that the Progress Party has been involved in writing. It's our most important task in terms of agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1453	We're tired of doing agriculture, the farmers say at my house. I was so lucky to have a visit to the Farm on Ørland and got some good discussions about the situation today. It was both thought-provoking and very worrying to hear how desperate they are. Agricultural policy is also a rural policy. In Trøndelag we have established a food manifesto for short-range food. There is a cooperation between producers, restaurants, festivals and agriculture as a whole. The pandemic has stopped a lot of this good work. It's a pride in tranny agriculture, but they need more than honeymoon words. They need a wage to live off, and everything is related to everything. Agriculture is a support bar for housing and jobs throughout the country. The social mission of agriculture is to produce enough natural and safe food on Norwegian natural resources, thus providing work, good nutrition and good health. We also need supervision and advice. A few years ago, we had major discussions in Stortinget, as the government did not stop the shutting down of the laboratory units at the Veterinary Institute, among others. in Trondheim. These were several important jobs with a high level of competence, which were also dependent on the Food Authority, and they disappeared. It says a lot about the will – or a lack of will – to see things in context. Security for animals and people deserves a new government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1464	We have just witnessed something quite dramatic in this room without it leading to someone smiling on a lid, and it shows how complicated this policy area is. Because as the Workers' Party was challenged by how they intended to achieve a lower or equal property price, or value on the farm, while increasing the income of the farmers, they replied that we are going to wind up the system we have for the valuation of agricultural properties today. Today, it's based on earnings on the individual farm. When an applicant for a concession, an estimate of what an expected performance on the farm is, and it determines the value of the farm. The sand trough said from here that it should no longer be the case. It is not the farm performance to determine the value of the farm; there is something else to regulate the value of the farm and the price. Now it shook its head, so I hope we get a correction on just this. For either it is that the performance determines the value, or it is that the performance does not determine the value – and then we have introduced a new principle. Norwegian farmers are then at risk of losing significant values that they have today put into use. This is quite serious, it is quite dramatic, and it is quite essential that the Workers' Party corrects this. And if that's how we're going to continue with that system, increased income will lead to higher value on the farm, and then the goals that the Workers' Party has set up here will not be possible. I got a visit from the representative from Troms, Knag Fylkesnes. I made a post where I, among other things, pointed out that there is a technology challenge. He responds by ignoring it and talking about grass. I pointed out that the market is changing, and that we need to look at new forms of distribution and be equipped for it. He answered by talking about grass. I pointed out that distribution is changing, that we have to look at it. He replied by talking about grass, despite the fact that this is a batch that has joined the meat consumption to fall by 50 pst., which affects precisely those who exploit these grass resources, and despite the fact that they have promoted a proposal to reduce the drain, or milking per animal, in a magnitude that means that 1.4 million litres of milk disappears from the Norwegian market – and is to replace it. Well, you can't do that for as long as you want to keep the climate pressure down, and when you want to have a whole series of other goals that one then wants, including reduced meat consumption. I pointed out that the crop gap is too big, that we have to produce more on the resources we have, because we can do it, and others do it. He answered by talking about grass when I talked about grain. The problem with the opposition proposals in this case is that they say they should increase the level of self-sufficiency. How relevant it is can be discussed, but the problem is that the sum of the proposals reduces our potential progression on the most productive areas and rates on the areas with the lowest productivity. Overall, the lower potential for Norwegian agricultural production means.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1473	I would like to start by thanking Mr Pollestad for his debate, and I would also like to thank the representative, Mr Pollestad, who took up the soil protection strategy in the way he did. It is also an important part as an annex to this agricultural settlement. I am the first to acknowledge that I believe that we did not reach the target in 2020 because there were transport extensions that were incorrectly registered, for example. on the E16 and Ringerix track, is really timely to put your finger on. It also shows a need for all the way to have a goal and all the way to come up with measures to tighten up, so that we can actually get along with all the agencies that are involved in using soil and consuming soil, to be involved in and understand how important it is. It's also the way that in this soil protection strategy, we clarify the concession obligation on option agreements, which is precisely the basis of this by seizing the land that actually makes it difficult for us to keep and maintain our land. The fact that we also want to establish a grant scheme for municipalities that develop soil protection strategies and that at the same time we need to determine how to protect all, the very best soil areas in our country, is also an important part of this. I am concerned that we should step up the practice of the law to reduce also agriculture's own degradation. This is also about credibility, and it's about ensuring that we have enough land. I agree with what has been said in the hall that soil protection is not something we can tick on a list and write that is completed and finished. The fight for soil protection requires engagement across party boundaries, it requires commitment across political life, and it also requires cooperation across different industries if we are to be able to take care of what will be the prerequisites for having an agriculture across the country, and to have an agriculture that farmers can also rely on that we actually go further. We're only going to take 3,000 decaves now, and I'm ready to move on when we show that we're able to achieve the targets.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1484	The representative Steinar Reiten has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1489	When the representative of Aasland said that I honoured the agricultural policy of the Advance Party, my first thought was that there is a lot to hear before the ears fall off. What I said was that the Agriculture and Food Ministers from the Progress Party have been competent and pragmatic in that they have related to an agricultural majority on the Stortinget, of which the Workers' Party has also been part. They have been aware that they have not been able to implement their primary policy, but they have dealt with it in a good way. I understand that, for the Workers' Party, it is very much in the interest to talk well about political opponents. For my part, I think that one should be clear enough to be able to do so in those cases where there is reason to do so. So it's my conclusion, when I'm about to finish my time on Stortinget, that the mining process we sometimes become part of here, where it should never be possible to deliver constructive, positive reviews by other politicians, I'm not going to miss.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1498	I can start by giving the previous speaker, Reiten, a tribute to the efforts of agriculture. We know he's been in charge of that industry for a long time. I can even say that, even though I have a short seagoing period and only so far have started my commitment to Norwegian agricultural policy. I drew because I have a few more moments in the debate. One is that subsidies from the State budget are not subsidies to farmers or agriculture, but it is about subsidising safe Norwegian food. So there have been some right-hand posts that I don't know about coming from the women's network, the agricultural network, or are county posts. In any case, it is certain and certain that the Right-Representatives themselves have gone on their own limbs. The romantic production of local food producers does little to help agricultural incomes for a long time. We cannot have it that each food manufacturer is put on each of his tea in a fight against the neighbor. We need regulation. We need strong cooperatives. We need customs protection to ensure Norwegian food production on Norwegian resources. We need concession. Right has not been helpful through the history here. Right can criticize the Center Party anything they want, but the situation here and now it's the Right itself that has the primary responsibility for, after almost eight years in government. It is well and good with support for the review of the income and figures base, but it is also about the willingness to put budgetary resources in place here and now. Social security, Norwegian food on Norwegian resources, made by Norwegian labour force with Norwegian income levels, requires much greater effort than what appears to be obtaining a majority in the agricultural settlement of the year. I would like to draw up an example that the cooperative Tine has recently been presented in a recent report, namely that their footprint is 22.6 billion. NOK 25900 and annual works. One Tine year's work gives 2.4 outside the yard. When the Center Party makes proposals for 1 billion. kr in addition to this year’s agricultural settlement – and we can use Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum’s coffee cup strategy as part of the basis for why we know it will make a difference – is that we actually see the value creation that Norwegian food production has. These are values that belong to society, the community and not least to the Norwegian consumer. I'm happy with what the Council says about soil protection. I have also been pleased with what the Council of State has said, among other things. Outlanding and smelting, for these are important values that we need to maintain, which are unique in Norway, and which are a prerequisite for Norwegian food production throughout the country on Norwegian resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1511	I assume that I, if I come up with terms like tying, will be clubbed down. I think there are different opinions on a topic as important as food production is not some kind of tying, but actually an exchange of thoughts and opinions and not least a description of different directions. That's what this is about. I would like to pay tribute both to the representative Steinar Reiten and to the Minister of Agriculture for Agriculture. The problem is they're in a government constellation where they don't have a majority, where they want something completely different. That's the starting point. I also brought the Advance Party in my previous post. I remember very well the agricultural policy of the Progress Party and, not least, the Right-wing Agricultural Policy when they were in opposition. I assume that if they come into opposition, they will again produce their old agricultural policy messages and present them, where they cut significantly each year in agricultural transfers. Instead of building up agriculture, they would build up agriculture. That was the situation, and I think it's going to be like that again. I think that if the Christian People's Party had founded agricultural policy on whom they would rule, they would have been in a completely different government from what they are doing now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1522	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1527	A new population needs to give young people hope. We have to set an example for young people. We have to show young people a model with new technologies adapted to Norway's situation. I don't know anything better than Switzerland. We have a national market. We can set an example if it's political will here. The basis is food safety. The Right Party and the Advance Party are the biggest threat to Norwegian food security, because for them it is buying-buying cheap-cheap morals. There's talk about farm prices. Today, the concession law is practiced in such a way that it is in practice free of charge. We have to get back the value of use in the concession and otel treatment of farms, so that it is the value for use in soil and forest that is being taken into account. If not, it will not be possible for young people to have labour income from their work on the farm.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1537	The representative, Geir Pollestad, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1542	The fall Storting Choice is a direction option for Norwegian food production. Should we go from eight years when the basis of agricultural policy has our Progress Party, to new years where the basis is preparedness, value creation and construction? There is much that can be promised and not promised, but promised that the Centre Party will always stand up for Norwegian agriculture, and that the Centre Party will always stand up for Norwegian food production. It will also be a central part of the government, which we hope will receive after the elections, and which will raise Norwegian food production and respond to the challenges we face in terms of farming across the country. The fall size option is a direction option for the food industry and for the agricultural industry in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1553	The representative, André N. Skelstad, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1558	It is good to point out that agriculture in Switzerland is quite twofold. One is for the national, and the other is for the most part for a market outside Switzerland. I also think it's a direction choice for the autumn. Those who want a continuation of some kind of monoculture would have to vote on the red-green ones. If you want variety and diversity, you know where the possibilities lie. These opportunities I also hope that agriculture will be able to see when settling the housing and remembering the years that were between 2005 and 2013. It wasn't when it flourished the most. I hope that it will be part of the basis when you make your choices.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1565	The representative, Tom-Christer Nilsen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1570	In an attempt to shock the assembly, I would say that I agree with the representative Per Olaf Lundtägen in this context. But the representative doesn't agree with himself, because here, on page 10 of this document, you're in favour of an increase in income not leading to an increase in the value of the farm, and then you're here on the pulpit saying that the value of the farm should be linked to the income on the farm. The last thing I agree with. The first thing I don't understand is how to increase the income, and then the value of the farm should not increase, as it says on page 10 of this document.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1575	The representative Marit Knutsdatter Strand has had the word twice before and also gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1580	Now this debate lands, but to the previous speaker, it is touching on how the Right is using speaking time to analyse the central party's policy in the agricultural sector, and I would just recommend that a start be made by analysing the consequences of its own policy, because that is the central party that is taking a great distance from it. We must have a new course for the country, we must have a new course for the agricultural policy, and that course is determined by the voters at the fall elections. Then I am truly happy that I am standing firm and well on what the Center Party is going to vote on, among other things. enhanced self-sufficiency, enhanced Norwegian food production and enhanced income development for farmers throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1585	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1602	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1609	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter. Prop. 189 S for 2020-2021 concerns the reindeer management agreement 2021-2022 concluded between the State and the Norwegian Reinbrutssamers Landsförbund on 17 February this year. The proposal provides an overview of the basis for the reindeer management agreement, the current agreement, the negotiations and the content of the reindeer management agreement. The proposal sets out the development of reindeer management and some key policy areas related to reindeer management. The grubbing-up agreement is the main instrument for following up the objectives and guidelines of the reindeer management policy, in addition to the reindeer management law. There is agreement between the parties on a framework for the reindeer management agreement 2021-2022 of 164,5 million. kr. That's an increase of 15 million. kr in relation to the current agreement. The main priorities are the conservation of the areas of reindeer management, emergency preparedness and the provision of facilities for Norwegian reindeer farmers who cannot use their pastures in Sweden. The agreement strengthens the direct grants and the free resources of the reindeer development fund. The priorities of the agreement mean a significant strengthening of the industry’s framework conditions. The grazing crisis in winter and spring 2020 was demanding for reindeer, and this crisis has been behind the negotiations. It is important that the reindeer management agreement also continues its efforts to develop the reindeer industry as a rational market-oriented industry, which is sustainable in the long term. I would also like to point out the importance of equality between ecological, economic and cultural sustainability. Reinforcement of production and marketing is important and the main reindeer owners need to be facilitated. It is important to ensure a stable cut-off according to grazing resources. It is therefore necessary for the cleaning industry to increase production and profitability by means of operational adjustments other than increased livestock numbers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1626	The clean-up operation agreement 2021-2022 is the eighth agreement of the government of Solberg has reached agreement with the Norwegian Rein driftsssamers Landsförbund on. Purification is of major importance for employment and industrial development in the Sami reindeer grazing area. Not least this applies to Finnmark, where 70 pst. the reindeer operation in Norway takes place, but also in the other Sami reindeer grazing area, as in my home country, Trendelag. Purification also contributes to the development of other activities, such as slaughterhouses and food industries, different types of goods, trade in equipment, transport, etc. The last year of operation was the crisis year in the reindeer industry. It shows that climate change has also reached reindeer management. In the UN's sustainability target, we're talking about limiting average temperature increase to 1.5 degrees. In the interior of Finland, an increase of 3.7 degrees has already been observed in the last 30 years. Crisis years will come more often with locked pastures for various reasons. It is positive that the contracting parties take this seriously and have increased resources for emergency preparedness. The continued commitment of the contracting parties to the ancillary industry in reindeer management is very good. Outreach tourism has become attractive around the world. Before the pandemic, there was a positive trend in the north, but the pandemic has reduced this tourism – as other tourism from abroad. However, when everything is normalised, reindeer-based tourism could increase the income of reindeer farming. Land is the main resource of reindeer management. That is why it is good that a three-year pilot project is now being set up for an advisory service on land-related matters, to be added to the Norwegian Rein driftssamer Landsförbund. This is important in order to enhance the competence of the industry in the area of land, where many reindeer owners experience a pressure. The new consultation law, adopted by the Stortinget, will also enable smooth processes to safeguard the interests of reindeer management while safeguarding the interests of municipalities and counties. Then we get a nice balance there. The agreement continues the priorities of those whose main activity is reindeer activity. But there are also a number of changes. The rate of production premiums increases in the context of the situation in the grazing crisis in 2020. The parties to the agreement also increase the basis for taxable sales income from 1 million. NOK to SEK 1.25 million. kr per reindeer. The calf lactate supplement shall be continued. In addition, there are several social aspects, such as the inclusion of maternity and maternity benefits in the scope of adoption, and the provision of a specific operating grant to women with their own side share. The year’s settlement provides for a sustainable reindeer industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1643	2020 was a very difficult year for reindeer management. The very extensive grazing crisis in winter and spring 2020 hit this industry very hard. The bite crisis hits the whole 75 pst. of the country's reindeer management. During 2020, the government launched several measures to reduce the impact of the grazing crisis. I am very pleased that Stortinget contributed to this by granting 30 million. kr to the reindeer crisis management fund. Nevertheless, the crisis has had a major impact on production and the economy of industry. In order to remedy the economic impact of the grazing crisis, we agreed with the NRL in advance of the year’s negotiations to establish an exceptional crisis grant of NOK 30 000 per share. In addition, the current system of the calf-slaughter premium was extended to cover slaughter of all puree in the 2020-2021 contract year. The exceptional arrangement was established within the scope of the existing agreement. The clean-up agreement 2021-2022 has a framework of 164,5 million. kr. This is an increase of 15 million. kr from the current agreement. This is a good percentage increase in the frame. In this year’s agreement, the main priorities of the parties have been to preserve the areas of reindeer management, emergency preparedness and measures to protect reindeer operators who cannot use their pastures in Sweden. The maintenance of the necessary areas for future production and profitability is one of the main challenges facing reindeer management today. I am therefore particularly pleased with the strengthening of the industry's work on land-related matters, which is now being done over the agreement, and will in particular bring forward the establishment of the three-year pilot project for the advisory service in land-related matters under the auspices of the NRL. This will provide a strong environment of expertise and advice that will be of great benefit to the industry, especially in land issues, which is a major problem. Over time, the non-convention with Sweden has created major challenges for the Norwegian reindeer management. I am pleased that the parties to the agreement have given such a high priority during the course of the year's negotiations. It is gratifying for me, as the Council of State, that a Joint Liaison Committee is also supporting the government's recommendation this year. This shows that there is a broad political consensus on the direction taken by the government in terms of reindeer management policy – an industry that is important to our indigenous population and that will be relegated to the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1658	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1663	Purification is a great industry both for culture and not least for a good quality product based on local natural resources. During the past year's grazing crisis, the Council of State was in need of additional appropriations for the crisis fund. It was important that it came into place. In addition, it appeared that potential conflicts arose by the possibility of mixing flocks across reindeer pastures when there is a shortage of grazing grounds. I asked a written question about it last year, and I wonder if the Council of State has now thought about whether there is a need for the state administrator to get better tools to deal with that kind of challenge in the future, if again hard packed snow and ice, which means that the reindeer do not come down to bed, in the great extent that we experienced last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1670	Last year I myself saw this industry and the challenges to which the Sandtrøen representative refers, in close proximity. I'm always concerned about seeing if the state manager could have better tools, so I'd like to take that into account. It's about being able to manage, and not least reducing conflicts, because it's after all the property and what they live from, that creates conflicts. It's about cultural backgrounds and different things that create a greater level of conflict. So yes, I'll be very obsessive about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1675	First, reindeer meat is the best you can get. It's quite natural -- they're just running on. It's a great meat to cook. Maybe you've seen that they're boiling everything. What I want to ask the Council of State is whether you want to organize so that it makes it easier for the reindeer to get slaughtered clean.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1682	Firstly, I fully agree with the representative on reindeer meat: if you have not tasted it, you must taste it! Have it as a Saturday treat – dried meat is extremely good. So I fully agree with that, and that you have to have new ways to develop it, I also agree. Something has been done to enable several areas to be slaughtered clean. Among other things, I have have been on a bus with young people, both to gain experience in slaughtering, to get closer to the driver, and to increase youth knowledge. They then get a relationship with the industry – all parts of the industry – which I think is important in order to understand how important it is to maintain that industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1687	I'm going to go a little further, to what's going on with robbers. Especially when it comes to calving, it is important to be in a protected area. Will you consider the problems that reindeer has had, so that calving can be done in a good way?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1693	This was also quite strong to hear about: you have clean inside the fence, the eagle sits on the top of the mountain and sees when the calf comes, and then it comes and just brings the calf. It impresses those who drive, and they don't get much left. We have a two-part objective, and in my opinion we have not had a full goal of achieving it, especially in the industry we are now talking about. Last year, when I also had the opportunity to get up, I saw y'all who had taken in. We saw how quickly the reindeer gets hidden, and how they struggle with great losses. So that goal is important to keep, but it's also important to balance this, and then it's important that we achieve this goal. I believe that we haven't fully achieved this yet, in terms of the two-part objective, especially in terms of the reindeer industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1700	Replication cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox The president looks at the clock: we start on case number. 4 and see how many people are going to take the word, to see if we can end it before we go to voting. But if there are many people who want to take the word – and that is what they want – we will continue after the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1721	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, – within the allocated speaking time – there will be no repetitions, and those who have to sign up for the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1728	I don't think the President needs to be afraid that this will be a long debate. I Prop. 205 S for 2020-2021 asks the Ministry of Health and Welfare for the Department to be authorised to make changes to the basic grants, operating grants and population-backs payments for medical, psychological and physical therapy from 1 July 2021. The changes for medical and psychological assistance are made on the basis of negotiations with the Norwegian Medical Association and Norwegian Psychological Association. Physiotherapy changes are made on the basis of negotiations with the three physiotherapists. Amendments to the reimbursement tariffs are laid down in regulations. Negotiations with these organisations have not yet been concluded. The Government therefore requests the power to make changes to the budgets of regional health establishments, social security contributions and transfers to municipalities as a result of the negotiations and amended regulations. The government will return to Stortinget with proposals for any changes to the allocation. It is an overall committee which concludes that the Ministry is empowered to make changes to the State budget of the Ministry of Health and Welfare for 2021, as requested by the Ministry. If this wasn't the most insightful post I've made in this room, it's just as full of the last post I'm making here, in the house of democracy – and it's been a pleasure.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1739	The President then thanked Geir Jørgen Bekkevold for his good closing words. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1754	Then we are ready to go to voting, first of all over the remaining issues on yesterday's map, agenda no. 101.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1766	A total of 30 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-4, from Ove Trellevik on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No 5, from Stein Erik Lauvås on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 6-11, from Heidi Greni on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 12, from Helge André Njåstad on behalf of the Progress Party the proposals No 13, 14 and 27, from Heidi Greni on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 15–26, from Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 28-30, from Björn Moxnes on behalf of Red There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 28 and 30, from Red. Proposal No. 28 sounds: «The government is asked by the government to increase the income of the municipal sector by at least 10 to 12 billion in the draft government budget for 2022. in addition to the government’s proposal in the 2022 Municipal Proposition.’» Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The government is asking for remedial measures for municipalities and county councils with a particularly high loan debt in line with the new amortisation requirements of the Local Government Act.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1812	There is a vote on proposal No. 29, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to propose the winding-up of all the financial incentives for new municipal mergers.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1829	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 15–19 and 22–26, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 15 sounds: «The government is asked by the government to increase the income of the municipal sector by between 9 and 10 billion in the draft government budget for 2022. SEK in addition to the government’s proposal in the 2022 Municipal Proposition, with an estimated SEK 6.5 billion. SEK to the municipalities and SEK 3.5 billion. kronor to county councils. 1 billion. of the increased income of counties is the annual amount covering full broadband coverage throughout the country and payable above cap. 541 heading 40. ‘... Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to change the apprenticeship allowance in order to give the local government a higher grant, based on the fact that they do not have financial earnings on the apprentices.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The size calls on the government to ensure greater participation and accessibility for all children in various leisure activities by: – introduce free cultural school hours and max. price. – ensure good framework conditions, for example by establishing a predictable financing mechanism and by introducing searchable incentives. – strengthen the practical and aesthetic subjects in school through enhanced and systematic cooperation between primary and cultural education, for example by facilitating more combined positions and by introducing requirements of competence for teaching in practical and aesthetic subjects.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to contribute to increased purchasing competence in municipalities and county municipalities in order to ensure circular and climate-friendly purchases where possible, and to return to Stortinget in connection with the State budget for 2022.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asked to introduce mandatory competence requirements and an earmarked subsidy scheme for the local government sector in order to increase competence in the environment, biodiversity and climate.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: «The government is asked by the government in the draft State budget for 2022 to reduce the ownership of municipalities in the scheme of particularly resource-intensive services, in order to significantly reduce the ownership of municipalities.» Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government requests the extension of the resource-intensive services scheme to include the age range 67 to 80 years’.» Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out a nationwide exercise of voting rights for 16-year-olds in the municipal and county elections in 2023 in all municipalities and counties.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government is asked to continue the earmarked positions in municipal child protection in the draft State budget for 2022.’ Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government asks for a new model of municipal property tax with compulsory deductions and clear social derogations. The investigation should also consider how an intra-household tax rate can be used to determine the value of the tax base in order to eliminate the costs of municipal taxation.’» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1904	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 20 and 21, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up a state top finance scheme for municipalities with exceptionally high child protection expenditure.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a change in the income system so that municipalities receive grants for nursery activities based on the number of children and not the level of education in the municipality.’ The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has announced its support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1929	There is a vote on proposal No. 14 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to establish a boat relief scheme based on the principles of the holiday relief scheme and to return to the Stortinget with this in connection with the Communal Proposition 2023.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1944	There is a vote on proposal No. 13 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to increase the income of the municipal sector by a minimum of 3 billion in the draft government budget for 2022. SEK in addition to the government's proposal in the Municipal Proposition 2022, which is estimated at 700 million. kronor shall be used to increase the framework of the counties.’;» The Socialist Left and Red have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1961	There is a vote on proposal No. 27, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to extend the mandate of the Committee on Income to include the following: – Evaluate a maximum limit, as a percentage of the local government budget or in dollars per capita, for expenditure on resource-requiring services – Evaluate a top-level funding scheme for municipalities with exceptionally high child protection costs – Evaluate whether the educational criterion is to be derived from the Kindergarten sub-cost key – Evaluate compensation schemes for municipalities with high health costs related to residents, such as co-financing from the municipality to which the recipient pays taxes.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e1991	There is a vote on proposal No. 12 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to provide a guarantee that all households will have Internet access during 2025.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e2008	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6-11, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government of the Municipal Proposition in 2023 is asked to submit proposals and funding for several low-threshold trials in the psychiatry and drug field in the municipal sector.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to step up the financing of the fixed medical scheme during 2022.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: «The government is asking for proposals for increased income equalisation in the income system of the local government sector.» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to review the system of resource-intensive services and to ensure that all relevant costs incurred by municipalities in the scheme are taken into account as the basis for the municipal excess.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that increased costs to municipalities as a result of the child protection reform are borne by the State.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up its own grant scheme to ensure conversion to zero-emission technologies in municipal public transport.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e2053	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to increase the income of the municipal sector by 3 billion in the draft government budget for 2022. in addition to the government’s proposal in the 2022 Municipal Proposition.’;» The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e2071	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party, and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to implement a framework for the level of the construction fee and to develop a guide to the framework for the use of self-cost in order to obtain a more holistic practice and less variation between municipalities.’ The Left and Red have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e2088	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 4, from the right, the party of progress, and the Christian party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government of the draft State budget for 2022 to assess a grant scheme for maintenance, upgrade and investment in the county road network with a minimum of 1 billion. crowns.’» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a comprehensive investigation into the property tax and to provide an appropriate assessment of the property tax on ordinary dwellings and cabins and to return to the Stortinge.’ The Greens and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e2112	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. «The government is asked to ensure that several projects are included in the holiday pay-off scheme, that all projects receive a grant of at least 25 per cent of the interest-rate costs, and that an annual minimum of 50 million is taken into account. krones. At the same time, the Stortinget asks the Government to assess the adjustment of this grant in relation to the annual government budgets.» The left has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e2179	It shall be added to II, III, IV, VII and IX. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e2193	It's going to add up to VI. The Greens and Reds have announced support for the vote. The Workers' Party and the Centre have notified subsidiary aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e2205	I, V, and VIII are voted for.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e2241	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Masud Gharahkhani, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No 3, from Heidi Greni on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asking the government to set up a management wage commission for government directors' salaries and senior employees' salaries in state-owned companies. The Commission shall review the State leadership salaries and bonus schemes in the context and analyse why wage developments at the top level have continued, despite, inter alia, guidelines adopted previously. Furthermore, the Commission shall make a thorough assessment of the real social considerations in the determination of wages and salaries and what cannot be justified by this. The Commission shall have strong representation from the parties.’;» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e2267	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a freeze on earnings for high-wage managers in the country and for a wide-ranging low-income commission to examine the distribution of real income in Norway.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e2284	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asking the government to set up a management wage commission for government directors’ salaries, senior management’s salaries in state-owned companies and companies in which the government is a majority shareholder, as well as the salaries of politicians at national and local level and after-paid schemes. The Commission shall look at the government directors’ salaries, bonus schemes and remunerations in the context and analyse why wage developments at the top level have continued, despite, inter alia, previously adopted guidelines. Furthermore, the Commission shall make a thorough assessment of the real social considerations in the determination of wages and salaries and what cannot be justified by this. The Commission shall have strong representation from the parties. The salary of Prime Minister, Government Councils and Depositary Representatives shall be suspended in a nominal manner until the conclusions of the Executive Commission have been presented.’;» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e2416	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e2428	Then Stortinget will go to voting on the matters on today's map. Case No. 1 was a statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e2440	A total of 74 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-10, by Nils Kristen Sandtrøen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 11-14, by Nils Kristen Sandtrøen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 15 and 16, by Nils Kristen Sandtrøen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 17 and 18, from Nils Kristen Sandtrøen on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 19 and 20, from Geir Pollestad on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 21-30, from Sivert Bjørnstad on behalf of the Progress Party the proposals No 31-34 and 66, from Geir Pollestad on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 35–60, from Torgair Knag County, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 62 to 65, from Björn Moxnes on behalf of Red the proposals No 67 to 75, from Per Espen Stoknes on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 62 to 65, from Red. Proposal No. 62 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to set a target of at least 50 pst for the degree of maritime supply corrected for imported power-feed raw materials. by 2025 and 60 pst. by 2030.» Proposal No. 63 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for a two-priced system for feed, where the necessary feed is at a reasonable price, while the peak consumption based on a feed note per livestock type and use is at a higher price.’ Proposal No. 64 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to determine how to transfer power, profits and values from the large daily food groups to employees and manufacturers.’ Proposal No. 65 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an independent Commission to have a thorough and comprehensive review of animal welfare in all industries. The Commission has to assess, inter alia, the welfare of animals, the adequacy of legislation and regulations, and the effectiveness of food supervision in the framework, tools and means of supervision.’» The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e2508	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 71 and 72, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 71 sounds: ‘The government is asking for incentives for a more extensive animal husbandry, with the exception of use of power feed and more use of roughage and boar, by: – start a gradual increase in the target price of cereals without an increase in the price reduction for co-feed, – prioritisation of increased support for non-mechanical land parcels and land parcels, – increase support for seating investments through Innovation Norway.’ Proposal No. 72 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to ensure a diversified production structure by: – lower the cow’s milk quota ceiling to 450000 litres and goat’s milk to 200000 litres, so that no new production is exceeded, – start a milk quota closure process and re-establish state allocation of milk quotas, to be based on local resource base, – strengthen smaller livestock producers by means of an active follow-on collar and with the following supplementary ceilings: 70 dairy cows, 70 suckler cows, 200 other cattle, 200 dairy goats, 300 sheep, – set the following ceiling for the area premium: 800 daa grain, 800 daa grass, 500 daa potato, 500 daa vegetables, 100 daa fruit, 100 daa berries – remove the bottom deduction.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e2556	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 67-70 and 73-75, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 67 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an increase of SEK 1.6 billion in the framework of the agricultural settlement of the year, for the start of an increase in incomes for agriculture, for the strengthening of the industry’s ability to meet the adopted agricultural objectives of the Storting and for the achievement of the objectives of the agriculture climate agreement.’ Proposal No. 68 sounds: ‘The government is asked to put forward proposals to set up a Commission on food security for the future. The mandate shall be to identify the reasons for the absence of agriculture in the achievement of the adopted agricultural objectives of the Storting and the abandonment of land, to review the status and development of the economic, social and ecological sustainability of agriculture and to assess the impact of the current agricultural policy on future food security.»; Proposal No. 69 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set a target to close the income gap between agriculture and comparable groups in four years’ time’.» Proposal No. 70 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to increase its efforts to increase the self-sufficiency of Norwegian fruit, greenery and legumes by: – go through the customs protection of potatoes, fruit and vegetables, and consider proposing to change from centimetres to percentages for fruit and vegetables grown in Norway, and potatoes, – review and improve the scheme of grant zones to stimulate the production of food plants for which there are sufficient production conditions; – make it more profitable for Norwegian farmers to produce cereals, oil and legumes, fruit and vegetables, by giving priority to increased support and risk relief measures for these productions, – increase aid to new green producers through Innovation Norway.’ Proposal No. 73 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose an animal welfare grant with criteria well above the minimum requirements of the team regulations. The current criteria of the scheme are: – Access to pasture or pasture for pigs. – Access to grazing or winter garden for poultry. – Access to grazing for male bovine animals [[uncastrated bulls are exempted from the grazing and exercise requirement]] – Larger area per animal in the poultry and pig industries. – Larger environmental coverage for chickens for fattening [[as things to wail on and hide beneath]] – Soft basis for pigs [[such as deep-stretching and low-stitch mats]] – Association between cows and calves. – Alternatives to the surgical castration of male pigs.’ Proposal No. 74 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the strengthening of soil fertility, carbon bonding and biodiversity and agriculture, by: – support regenerative grazing practices, including the use of virtual fences, – support for regenerative cultivation methods in plant production, – support soil biodiversity mapping and mitigation, – support care and production methods to enhance biodiversity, including mowing fields and measures to facilitate pollinating insects and birds, – set minimum requirements for biodiversity and crop rotation for the award of grants.’;» Proposal No. 75 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that during the summer an exceptional and comprehensive surveillance campaign is carried out in Norwegian pig farms with a view to detecting the extent of infringements of the Animal Welfare Act through unannounced supervision.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e2660	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 47, 48, 52, 53, 56 and 57, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 47 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to set a milk performance target of 7500 kg/cu/year as a national average.’ Proposal No. 48 sounds: ‘The Government requests the establishment of a quality premium in sheep and bovine animals promoting the use of Norwegian feed.’ Proposal No. 52 sounds: ‘The Government requests the removal of the base deduction.’ Proposal No. 53 sounds: «The government asks the ceiling on the area grants of: vegetables 200 daa; berries 80 daa; fruit 80 daa; potatoes 300 daa.» Proposal No. 56 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make higher contributions to the first five dean of vegetables, berries, fruit and potatoes.’ Proposal No. 57 sounds: «The government is asked to set a target of 20 pst. of agriculture in Norway shall be organic by 2030, and return to Stortinget with an escalating plan for achieving that objective.’» The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e2706	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 35-46, 49-51, 54, 55 and 58-60, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 35 sounds: «The Government is asked to propose a multi-annual investment package of the IBU funds for small dairy farms in the context of the ransom requirement. This presupposes raising the support rate for dairy farming to less than 30 cows to 50 pst/3.5 million. crowns, and that dairy farming with less than 30 cows is prioritised in the allocation of IBU funds.» Proposal No. 36 sounds: ‘The government asks to differentiate the national seat grant by a rate of $50,000 for 4 weeks and then NOK 10,000 per week for up to 9 weeks.’ Proposal No. 37 sounds: «The government is asked to introduce national processing grants of NOK 10000 per seat.» Proposal No. 38 sounds: ‘The government is asked to introduce a national grant of SEK 10000 extra per user. [[(from user no. (2)]] Proposal No. 39 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to introduce national guidance on visitor seat grants in all counties in accordance with the same criteria as in Trøndelag.’ Proposal No. 40 sounds: ‘The government is asking for priority of IBU funds for seating facilities. It can be given up to 50 pst. investment aid. Investments in infrastructure such as road, water and connection to electricity networks are also supported.’;» Proposal No. 41 sounds: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to investments in fossil-free seating through the Renewable Energy and Technology Development Programme’. Proposal No. 42 sounds: «The government is asked to grant 2 million. kronor for the basic financing of two positions at the Local Food West Competence Network for the strengthening of external competence in Norway.’» Proposal No. 43 sounds: ‘The government requests the start of the milk quota stock exchange liquidation and the reintroduction of State allocation of milk quotas, which shall be based on local resource base.’ Proposal No. 44 sounds: ‘The Government requests the reintroduction of a ring-labelling of IBU funds to small scale green, with a frame of 20 million. crowns.’» Proposal No. 45 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose an animal welfare grant with criteria well above the minimum requirements of the Staff Regulations. The current criteria of the scheme are: – Access to pig and poultry outdoor areas [[under 1 p.m. may be out today]] – Cow/calve association [[created a solution called SmartCalfCare-binge]] – Alternatives to the surgical castration of male pigs [[to be implemented until the 2002 Decision]] – Larger area per animal in poultry and pig farming.» Proposal No. 46 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for measures to be taken by the government to break down the wholesale, distribution and retail stages of Norwegian retail trade in order to ensure competition within each segment and, if necessary, to return to Stortinget.’ Proposal No. 49 sounds: «The Government asks the Government to increase the framework of the agricultural agreement by 1 billion. $700 million. SEK goes to the income frame and SEK 300 million. the capital of the investment package.’;» Proposal No. 50 sounds: «The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a concrete escalation plan to close the income gap between farmers and other occupational groups within 4 years. The revenue gap shall be closed in all productions, for all use sizes and parts of countries. The plan of escalation must be designed in such a way that it does not lead to overproduction, for example through temporary stoppage for new producers or higher turnover charges for newly established ones when overproduction is carried out. This is determined on the advice of the Management Board.’» Proposal No. 51 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to include more targeted welfare schemes adapted to family life and agriculture as an important part of the escalation plan.’ Proposal No. 54 sounds: ‘The government is asked to adopt a time-table to gradually reintroduce ceilings on grants at the same level as before 2014 as well as steps in the subsidies. This applies to the subsidy schemes for all productions and areas, including, inter alia,: the livestock subsidies, the area grants and the reintroduction of the quantitative ceilings for district fruit and berries.» Proposal No. 55 sounds: ‘The Government requests the reduction of the quota ceiling for cows’ milk to 900 to 450 tonnes and the quota ceiling for goat’s milk to 200 tonnes, without retroactive effect.’; Proposal No. 58 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to stimulate operations that increase soil health and natural carbon storage.’ Proposal No. 59 sounds: ‘The government requests the introduction of a separate operating grant in the sheep population.’ Proposal No. 60 sounds: «The government is asking for an increase of 40 million in funding for drainage over the LUF. $18 million. krones. The allowance for drainage must be measured as 50 pst. of cost estimates, limited up to NOK 6000/day.» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e2837	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 31, 32 and 66, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to determine how the introduction and arrangement of meat quality subsidies has affected the possibility of the use of grazing resources.’ Proposal No. 32 sounds: «The Government is asked to implement the structural measures required by agriculture.» Proposal No. 66 sounds: ‘The size of the budget calls on the government, through the agricultural policy, to ensure that agriculture is made up of an annual trend that is significantly higher than the wage trend elsewhere in society in order to rise to the same level of revenue. The suspension must be completed by means of an obliging temporal escalation plan for the sealing of the income gap.» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e2866	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 33 and 34, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to establish a soil protection measure for a maximum of 2000 deer of cultivated land redisposed by 2026.’ Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide measures in the State budget to achieve the maximum redisposal target of 2000 deches by 2026.’ The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e2890	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 21–23 and 25–30, from the Party of Advancement. Proposal No. 21 sounds: «The government is asked to propose 100 million. kronor of the total investment aid framework under the Agricultural Development Fund [[LUF]] Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The Government requests the aggregate of the general subsidy and the distribution grant under the PU scheme for a separate scheme of 77 øre per litre of milk. The increase is assumed to be taken within the country’s framework proposals.’;» Proposal No. 23 sounds: «The government is asking for half of the grazing premium in Zones 1 and 2 and to give greater priority to the set-aside premium in other areas. It is assumed that the changes will be made within the framework of the country’s proposal for a framework.’;» Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government requests that the quota ceiling for milk production be increased to 1.2 million. litre per use.’» Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that, if resources are allocated to the Granted Livestock, Priced Meat and Operating Grants for Milk and Meat, this must be arranged in such a way as to facilitate, as far as possible, the development of income for those who have most of their income from agriculture in line with the leadership of the Report. St. 11 [[2016-2017]] Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The government asks the parties to the agricultural settlement in 2022 to review all the zonings in agriculture, to assess their appropriateness and to propose changes in the agricultural settlement for 2022.’ Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The Government asks that the parties to the 2022 agricultural settlement propose simplifications in the subsidy structure on the basis of the 2016 Simplifications of the instruments of the Agreement on Agriculture.’; Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The government does not ask to increase support for organic farming beyond the 2020 level.’ Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to continue support for forestry under the LUF at 2020 level. It is assumed that an increase will be taken within the framework of the State’s proposal.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e2948	There is a vote on proposal No. 24, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen the relative competitiveness of roughage by reducing the price decrease from cereals to power-feed. It is assumed that the change will be made within the framework of the country’s proposal for a framework.’;» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e2965	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 19 and 20, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 19 reads: «The government is asking for a 1 billion increase in the framework of the agricultural settlement of the year. crowns.’» Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asking for measures to ensure sufficient labour from both home and abroad during the growing season of the year.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e2990	There is a vote on proposal No. 18, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to open new negotiations with the agricultural organisations and to submit a new offer in accordance with the Storting assumptions. A new agreement shall be submitted to the Stortinget and the current agreement shall be extended until the adoption of a new agreement.’;» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e3007	There is a vote on proposal No. 17, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Prop. 200 S is returned to the government, as the proposition does not comply with the Storting's assumptions, cf. [[2020-2021]] Inner. [[2016-2017]] 251 S The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e3024	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 15 and 16, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back with a plan for decent pay and working conditions. The plan shall be drawn up in cooperation with the social partners and the trade unions.’;» Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the statistics on imports of organic agricultural products will be put in place during the year.’ The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has announced its support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e3048	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 11 and 14, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an investment package to be returned and for the refurbishment plan in the State budget for 2022, which ensures that the destocking requirement adopted in the bovine population can be met by 2034. The investment programme shall ensure climate-friendly refurbishment of cabin cages and be adapted to use by up to 30 cows, production on Norwegian natural resources and increased grazing. This is important in order to help ensure that the unbundling requirement does not result in a reduction in the number of active uses.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the Government to return to the State budget for 2022 with measures and instruments to follow up the climate agreement between the State and agriculture, without weakening Norwegian food production on Norwegian resources and the income of agriculture as foreseen by the Stortinget.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e3072	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 12 and 13, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The budget asks the government of future agricultural settlements to introduce a ceiling on subsidies to ensure agriculture throughout the country.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The size calls on the government of future agricultural settlements to contribute to adjusting and lowering the milk production quota ceilings to a level adapted to Norwegian nature, geography and resource base and agriculture throughout the country. Those who have adapted to the high level of the day may retain the allowances or sell excess allowances back to the country at the agreed price.’;» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e3097	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-10, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The government is asked to ensure that the sample to assess the numerical basis also examines the actual economic situation of agriculture on the basis of income targets for agriculture from the Innst. 251 S [[2016-2017]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a stepping-up plan for safe food production in Norwegian resources.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present a risk and vulnerability analysis that takes into account that the global food market is more affected by geopolitical developments, climate change and other unforeseen circumstances.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government, together with the social partners, is asked to present a plan to ensure a clean and Norwegian wage and working conditions for all agricultural and fruit and vegetable workers and to increase the recruitment of domestic labour.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for rapid implementation of changes in the compensation schemes and grant schemes through Innovation Norway as a result of the year’s extensive frost damage to fruit production, with a view to providing compensation for loss of income and production for several years and cost recovery of production.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present a strategy for enhanced customs protection to increase the Norwegian share of consumption of Norwegian green products.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose measures to exploit more land throughout the country suitable for green production. This must include reception and processing solutions and identify challenges of customs protection for the different cultures. The review shall be ready in advance of the agricultural holding 2022.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government, in consultation with the industry, is asked to further develop the agricultural welfare systems and to present its own plan in the context of next year’s agricultural settlement. In particular, good arrangements for the replacement of leave, sickness and childbirth are important.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: «The government is asked to allow the Board of Commerce to determine the size of the regulatory stock in connection with the transition from the target price to the volume model.» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to review the leadership of the allocation of IBU funds with a view to ensuring that the requirement of profitability in investment projects can be met by other means than increasing the existing output of the use. The review shall be ready in advance of the agricultural holding 2022.» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e3162	The representative, Sandtrøen, has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e3167	Because of the fact that the proposals No. 17 and 18, which is intended to send Prop. 200 S for 2020-2021 return to the government and thus get a new proposition in line with the Stortingen assumptions, now fell, I would recommend the Workers' Party to vote subsidiaryly for the committee's recommendation, so that agriculture actually gets a financial framework for the coming agreement period.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e3172	Then Sandtrøen has made clear the position of the Workers' Party. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e3403	The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it. The others shall vote in favour, including the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-16.ana.ud322e3597	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
