ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-07.ana.ud468e57	It is with great sorrow that we have received the message of Kåre Willoch's departure. Willoch will be remembered as one of the most intrusive politicians in Norway and on the Stortinget after World War II. He was a leading figure on the Stortinget when he was elected as a representative in 1957, until he left the Storing in 1989. Our warmest thoughts go to his family and left behind. The representatives Trond Helleland, Bård Ludvig Thorheim, Ine Eriksen Soreide and Alfred Jens Bjørlo, who have been on leave, have once again taken their seats. The called alternate for Rogaland, Marte Eide Klovning, is now taking the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-07.ana.ud468e89	The representative of Guri Melby will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-07.ana.ud468e94	On behalf of the representatives of Ola Elvestuen, Sandra Bruflot, Sveinung Stenland, Bjørnna Moxnes, Seher Aydar, Kristoffer Robin Haug, Rasmus Hansson, Marian Abdi Hussein, Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes and myself, I would like to promote a proposal for a representative to implement the drug reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-07.ana.ud468e99	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The President will state that case No. 8, Unit, will be dealt with before case No. 1st@item: inlistbox The President therefore asks the representatives to be present until the minutes have been finalised.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-07.ana.ud468e166	The size of the sample was in line with the co-ordination proposed between the underlying agencies of the Storting. A different organisation was then decided, such as, among other things, concerns the Riksaudition, where a distinguishes the national auditor’s management of the college and tasks as accountable to the Stortinget from the role of the Executive Director of the organisation. Because in the spring a sample was set up that has been commissioned to evaluate the activities of the National Audit Office and to revise the National Audit Office Act, the previous Presidentship of the Grandfather asked this sample to follow up the change to which the Grandfather joined. When the work of finding candidates for the National Auditor's College started a few weeks ago, the presidency raised the question: Should not the change in the organisation become effective from the new appointment in the new year, by changing that part of the law now? It turned out that it was too short to implement this in such a way that all the consequences are thoroughly investigated and taken care of before the choice of a new college takes place. Thus, the change must be applied only at the next appointment. At that time, the National Audit Board’s proposal for the revision of the law will have been finalised in the Grand Duchy in good time. I have no comments on the settings themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-07.ana.ud468e177	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-07.ana.ud468e194	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-07.ana.ud468e211	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-07.ana.ud468e228	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-07.ana.ud468e245	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-07.ana.ud468e262	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-07.ana.ud468e269	Proposals for changes to the State budget for 2021 related to the implementation of a market analysis for vaccine production and related to the ordering powers of the corona vaccine for 2022 and 2023 are made in the case. European cooperation in the field of vaccines has ensured access for the Norwegian population to a variety of vaccine candidates, for which we are grateful. That is why it is good that the Ministry of Health and Health gets this authority to also order vaccines for 2022 and 2023. It may also have to be seen in the light of the government's decision on a third dose. Cooperation with the EU will be important in the future, and the Corona Commission has recommended that international cooperation on drug preparedness should be strengthened. In Europe, a number of comprehensive actions are now being undertaken to strengthen our common health preparedness, both centrally in the EU and with possible regional cooperation to ensure Europe's access to, for example: vaccines in a crisis situation. In the Hurdal platform, we are clear that we need to take greater responsibility nationally and globally to ensure access to important medicines and vaccines. The government will support the need for a strengthened overall preparedness within and outside Norway. In the Hurdal platform, it also appears that the government, among others. wish to ‘use the potential for increased value creation, export and employment by facilitating the production of critically important medicinal products in Norway’ and ‘investigate the establishment of a national pharmaceutical company capable of stimulating Norwegian pharmaceutical and vaccine production, either by its own initiative or in cooperation with other industries’. I also refer to the market analysis to be carried out, and I would like to underline that in that work, among other things. shall be considered as existing competence and capacity in Norway and, in this context, the stages of the production process of vaccines – also in the light of different vaccine technologies – that are considered relevant and realistic in a Norwegian context. With that, I would recommend the recommendation of an overall committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-07.ana.ud468e284	First of all, supports the right setting in this case. As the rapporteur pointed out, vaccine production is resource-intensive and both the market and supply chains are global. We would also point out that it is not considered realistic that Norway can be self-sufficient in vaccines in a future crisis. Access to vaccines is and will depend on close international cooperation, and therefore it is important that we have a common and strengthened preparedness in Europe. It will also depend on the capacity of the different countries. We believe that the corona pandemic has made it clear that we need more international solidarity and more multilateral cooperation, not less. No country can solve this crisis alone. As a small country, we will depend on cooperating with others. That is why we also share the opinion of the government and the rapporteur on more cooperation and good conditions in order to be able, together with the other EU countries and others, to ensure that we have good access to important vaccines. The pandemic is far from over — not in Norway, nor in the rest of the world. This is an important international responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-07.ana.ud468e293	I would like to point out that in May 2021 the Progress Party reached a unanimous agreement on the proposal to ask the government to investigate and, if possible, to enter into pre-purchase agreements with private operators who wish to establish some vaccine production in Norway. I agree that one cannot expect to be able to produce all kinds of vaccines in Norway, but it is about being more active. We need to work and facilitate that private actors who want to be involved and contribute in this area can make good agreements with the state. It is good to note that both the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party support the comments made by the Advance Party and believe that this is a good observation, which is clear that it is necessary to think about facilitating the introduction of vaccine production in Norway. They probably want a slightly different type of company, etc., so we don't quite agree there, but we very much agree with the intention that we need to get more production in Norway. The pandemic has clearly shown that we have to. Finally, I have to have some fun too, because it's interesting to read the comment from, among other things. The centre party. There is no way at all of the EU and how important EU cooperation has been. It has not exactly been the notes from the Center Party before, but I think it is important that we have good solutions and ensure that Norwegian citizens receive a vaccine as soon as possible. The Progress Party has also looked at other types of solutions that could have given us vaccines and medicines faster, and it is important for us to ensure that our citizens are cared for in the best possible way. I think, as I said, it was a bit interesting to register the eagerness of the Centre Party after working with the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-07.ana.ud468e302	The Corona Commission has recommended that international cooperation on drug preparedness be strengthened in order to be better equipped to meet current and future health crises. An important part of that development is the production and purchase of the necessary medicinal products as it cannot be considered realistic that Norway can be self-sufficient in vaccines. There we are totally dependent on close international cooperation, especially with the EU. The coronary crisis is not behind us, and there will probably be a need for coronary vaccines against mutated variants of the virus in the years to come. Norway must ensure the necessary competence in order to be part of the stages of vaccine production. That is why I support the Committee's recommendation to give more money to carry out a market analysis for vaccine production. It will provide us with knowledge of existing skills and capacities and the stages in the production processes that may be relevant to Norway’s efforts. The Norwegian link to European cooperation in the field of vaccines has ensured access for the Norwegian population to a variety of vaccine candidates based on different technologies. This has been crucial in the crisis we have been through and we are still in. In Europe, a huge amount of research is being done to strengthen drug preparedness in future crises. It is absolutely essential that Norway stands on the ground, so that we can contribute to this work and be better prepared to address national and global vaccine needs in the coming years. For many of us in Norway, but also for the rest of the world, the coronary crisis has been a wake-up. It has shown us how important it is to be prepared for health crises and the importance of research and building up environments of competence. Finally, I would like to remind the Chamber that Norway is part of the world. It obliges Norwegian authorities to participate in the community and to contribute where we can cope with the global health crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-07.ana.ud468e313	I'll be brief, but I can't avoid going up here and clarifying the zeal expressed by the pulpit. Our zeal is, of course, in securing the stability that is now required, as is the situation in our society. For the Central Party, it has always been important, and is important, to secure our inhabitants and our nation the best intentions for being vaccinated. So add this thing to make sure that we look together now at the possible spaces that are, in addition to the schemes that are already established. The ambition is to ensure that the established schemes that are already in existence are further intensified, and not least that we take further account of the way in which potential Norwegian production is to be carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-07.ana.ud468e318	I really want to keep going a little bit where the Progress Party representative left off, on the same track, and it's about production, because we have to be more self-sufficient and more solidarity. We who promote the need for more production in Norway do not because we believe Norway will be 100 pst. Self-sufficient tomorrow. We do it because we believe that Norway needs to be more self-sufficient than what we are today. It's urgent to start this work, we need to do it tomorrow, because if we continue to be so vulnerable and so dependent on international supplies, it weakens our preparedness. We need to strengthen preparedness, and some of the work on strengthening preparedness is about producing more of the drugs and vaccines we need in Norway. So I would like to mention that it is important to work for the people in Norway and in other parts of the world to have access to drugs, but I would disagree with the representative of the Central Party in one thing, and that was that it was not right to lock itself to the EU alone. It was one of the ways, but you could also be more open, and it wasn't because you locked yourself up too much for EU cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-07.ana.ud468e325	I'm actually a little surprised that there's going to be a debate on this issue, because Norway is a small country in the world, and the mutations happen if we can't keep up with the world – and if we don't distribute both vaccines and drugs. We see the situation today: we haven't distributed vaccines, we get mutations, and then we don't depend on where we produce, we divide. That's why I'm very concerned that Norway, as a small country, is actually going to have the opportunity to produce the drugs we have the prerequisites for producing. But remember, many of the drugs are so special that we, with a little over 5 million people, will not be able to produce what we need in full preparedness, of neither vaccines nor medications. Therefore, Norway is totally dependent on being part of the world — being part of the world’s production and being part of the world’s distribution — if we are to eradicate pandemics and serious diseases. It's our international responsibility. If we're going to take care of our own population, we also have to be involved in caring for the world's poorest in order to be able to eradicate this at all in the situation we're in now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-07.ana.ud468e334	I join the last speaker: Norway is part of the world, and we have to cooperate. In our country, in Norway, is close to 90 pst. by the adult population now completed. At the same time, we see that new virus variants are emerging, and there will be a need for vaccines against covid-19 in both 2022 and 2023. In order to enable Norway to participate in the European acquisitions of vaccines for 2022 and 2023, the Royal Resolution of 23 June of this year agreed that commitments for future financial years of up to EUR 3,5 billion may be incurred by the State. kr. Therefore, in line with the staging rules, proposals for a roll-out decision on ordering authorisation are being made. Norway, like other Nordic countries, has access to several different vaccines against covid-19 through European cooperation. The Corona Commission has recommended that international cooperation on drug preparedness should be strengthened. The Government of the Hurdal Platform notes that it wishes to ‘use the potential for increased value creation, export and employment by facilitating the production of critically important medicinal products in Norway’, as well as ‘investigate the establishment of a national pharmaceutical company capable of stimulating Norwegian pharmaceutical and vaccine production, either by its own initiative or in cooperation with other industries’. This proposal proposes an allocation related to a study for vaccine production. A review of different instruments and models of cooperation between public and private actors on vaccine production in selected EU/EEA countries has also been launched, under the direction of the Ministry of Food and Fisheries. Again, I would like to stress that vaccine production is resource-intensive and dependent on global supply chains. The availability of medicinal products for human use is influenced by a number of factors that one country alone may have difficulty in influencing. A drug preparedness based only on national self-sufficiency in response to a future health threat is not realistic. In Europe, comprehensive action is now being taken to strengthen common health preparedness, including drug preparedness. Several initiatives are taking place centrally in the EU and possible regional cooperation is being explored. I believe it is important to ensure that national investigations are adapted to international developments where it is appropriate for future Norwegian health preparedness.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-07.ana.ud468e353	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-07.ana.ud468e359	Yes, Norway is part of the world. I think we all agree on that, and that's good. Of course, we cannot produce all kinds of vaccines or medicines in Norway with the population we have. Everyone understands that. But this is about the pandemic showing how vulnerable we were when things got in, and how little of the kind of production we have in Norway. That's what it's all about when you want to strengthen and better this. It was a unanimous increase which, in May of this year, decided that it was desirable to adopt a more offensive approach to the production of medicines and, where appropriate, vaccines in Norway. How has the Council of State planned to follow up that decision of May this year? It was a clear and clear «Go!» from Stortinget and a marshall to the Council of State to follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-07.ana.ud468e366	It is partially followed up in the proposition on which the Storting is to take a decision afterwards. I also believe that the wording of the Hurdal platform is well in line with the decision to which the representative refers. There have also been earlier proposals from this room to look at Norwegian production of both drugs and vaccines, and that it can be done in cooperation between public and private actors, as well as as as a type of emergency production. We are exploring how this can be done in Norway, but also how this can work together with the European cooperation that is now being strengthened on the health protection side.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-07.ana.ud468e371	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I think it's a little offensive. I'm going to be a little careful, since the Council of State hasn't been the Council of State for a very long time, and there's a lot of things, not least what we're up to now, which makes you obviously have to focus on it, but I'd like to see that the Council of State had been a little more offensive and could be a little more specific when you think about getting on with this. There are private actors who want to be involved and who want to be able to deliver this and start manufacturing in Norway, but they are well aware that there are some public challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-07.ana.ud468e376	I think it is very gratifying that the representative of Hoksrud wants the Council of State to be even more forward-looking, because he is invited here to take part in the adoption of a study on vaccine production in Norway, which will be exactly in line with what the industrial operators have announced to us. It happens under the direction of the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries, and it will have a progress that I feel has been well received by both industry and the workers side, for there has been a broad mobilisation to look at the possibilities for this type of industrial activity in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-07.ana.ud468e381	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-07.ana.ud468e400	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-07.ana.ud468e407	The issue that is now being put forward for the management of the Stortinget includes changes in the state budget for the current year. My article won't create big headers, and I'll be short. It is somewhat regrettable that matters are late for handling, but as you know it has been a political choice, and for that reason it has taken time before one has been formed a new trade committee. The cause has not been the progress you should expect in such a case. The budgetary changes that follow concern the current vaccination programme for influenza vaccination, where a wish to facilitate free vaccination to specific risk groups and health professionals. The changes proposed will take up to 100 pst. vaccination coverage for persons over 65 years of age and 75 pst. coverage for health professionals. There is also a need for municipalities to ensure a contingency line for third doses of vaccine against the corona, which is well known for this assembly. This has later been reinforced by the government’s new and clear strategy to increase capacity from 200,000 doses to 400,000 doses per week. It is therefore up to the Stortinget today to adopt the increase in the municipal framework. There is a joint committee that recommends it, and I recommend that the vote be taken without further comment on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-07.ana.ud468e418	The main objective of the government is to maintain control of the pandemic so that it does not result in a significant burden of disease or burden on the capacity of the municipal health services and hospitals, while at the same time providing public services at an adequate level and protecting our economy. In order to achieve this objective, vaccination is the most important measure. We assume that the omicron variant is more contagious than the delta variant. We're not sure how well the vaccines protect against this virus, and whether the virus gives more serious disease. Anti-infectious measures are in place to delay the spread of omicron until several older people have been vaccinated and we have gained more knowledge. All 65 years of age and older are recommended to take an up-to-date dose five months after dose 2. So far, 65 pst. by this group accepted. Some municipalities and urban areas are actually in target. I think that's a pleasure. There is a need for an increased pace of this vaccination. In a letter to the municipalities, the Swedish Institute of Public Health has asked that anyone aged 65 and over should have been offered a refreshing dose by Christmas. The municipalities have been asked for the same in the case of seasonal influenza vaccines. Clear communication to this part of the population and to the municipalities is important in order to ensure a high rate of vaccination quickly. In week 44, our municipalities vaccinated just over 300,000 people with either influenza or coronary syndrome vaccines. This process without warning about capacity problems, but at the same time many municipalities use more firmly for the influenza vaccine and centralized municipal supply to the corona vaccine. This means that the total capacity is higher when both influenza and covid-19 are vaccinated. It is important to provide the municipalities with predictability beyond 2022. Therefore, the government has asked the municipalities to be prepared to set 400000 doses in the week ending in April. Given this vaccination rate and access to vaccines to all, all over the age of 18 will be offered within Easter next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-07.ana.ud468e431	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox Thus today's map is fully debated. The cancellation will now take a break, and according to the announced agenda it will be voting at 0 p.m. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-07.ana.ud468e452	The representative, Eigil Knutsen, has requested the submission of a proposal for a representative. The proposal has not been submitted within the deadline, cf. Paragraph 38, first paragraph, of Stortinget’s Rules of Procedure. The President would therefore propose, in accordance with Section 79 – i.e. by derogating from the Rules of Procedure – that Eigil Knutsen should nevertheless be given the opportunity to present the proposal. – No objections were raised and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-07.ana.ud468e461	Thank you for the opportunity to promote a proposal for a representative to correct the framework of the State budget for 2022. As is known on Thursday, 2 December, the size decided on the framework of the State budget for 2022, and in the event of an incursion, there were errors in two of the frameworks, Framework 18 and Framework 21. Since it is not possible to vote separately over these two frames, I will, on behalf of Sigbjørn Gülsvik, Kari Elisabeth Kaski and myself, put forward a draft representative on the framework decision for the State budget in 2022. The proposal is identical to proposal No. 277, which was adopted on Thursday, with the votes of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, except for the frames 18 and 21, which have now been corrected. I also ask that the proposal be dealt with in accordance with Article 39, second paragraph, point (d), i.e. be administered immediately.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-07.ana.ud468e470	The proposal has been proposed in accordance with point (d) of the second paragraph of Section 39 of the Rules of Procedure, which means that it is put up for immediate consideration. The President is prepared to ask the Stortinget to comply with this. Does anyone ask for the word of the procedure?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-07.ana.ud468e477	Explanation of vote: I would recommend that the Progress Party vote against all the time we have proposed in our alternative budget proposal as to what we think the framework allocation should be. We accept that the proposal is being promoted, but we will vote against it. Then I would point out that we in the Progress Party realize that things like this can happen. When something is to be done under a very strong time pressure, human error can occur, even if this is an unfortunate procedure. But we have a lot of understanding of the situation. On a previous occasion, in 2016, it almost failed us too, in exactly the same way, but it was discovered in the morning, so we managed to fix it. However, I would like to take the opportunity to recall that the change of words at that time was unusually hard in this room. Several on the red-green side were very tall and dark when it came to making procedural recommendations, breaking deadlines, lack of attitude to deal with, and not least about the chaos that arose from the almost incomprehensible fact that the budgetary process had to be managed with loose proposals in the hall. I shall not hang individual representatives by name, so the representative Arnstad shall not worry. [[muttering in the hall]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-07.ana.ud468e487	I understand that the President will support the proposers and deal with this in accordance with point (d) of Section 39. Then I have a question for the president about why. This is because it was the last day that other representatives made a proposal for a representative asking the government to come back to the Stortinget by 15 December, so it was urgent to have the proposal finalised in plenary. The President then proposed that the wishes of the proposers should not be complied with. In another context, the wish of the proposers was met. Both times when the proposals have been complied with, there have been proposals from the government parties, while there was an opposition party asking for an urgent procedure under point (c), the president said no. I would like an explanation from the President as to why the President is not consistent with the procedure. If it is true that the wishes of the proposers are to be taken into account, it is all right, but it must then apply to all the wishes of the proposers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-07.ana.ud468e494	With regard to the second proposal, it was time for comitology. If it is different than proposed in this respect, the presidency will have to make a whole new progress plan, and I think that everyone is interested that we big-time representatives will also be able to celebrate Christmas. As I understand it, the Progress Party will vote against the realities, but not against the way in which the proposal is dealt with. – No one else has asked for the floor and the President’s proposal has been adopted. The representative's proposal is therefore dealt with immediately and then becomes case no. 9 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-07.ana.ud468e512	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-07.ana.ud468e521	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-07.ana.ud468e1293	The motion for a resolution is put to the vote. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I Framework Decision
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-07.ana.ud468e1558	The President will assume that the Right, the Advance Party, the Red, the Left, the Green and the Christian People's Party will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-07.ana.ud468e1570	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? – This has not happened, and the meeting has been cancelled.
