ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e118	From the representative of Björn Moxnes, there is an application for welfare leave from 8 to 10 June. On a proposal from the President, the following agreement was reached: The application will be processed immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Seher Aydar, is called in to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e138	Seher Aydar is present and will take the seat. Before the items in the meeting card are taken up for processing, the President will inform you that the meeting is continuing beyond noon today. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e158	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e165	First, I would like to thank the Cooperation Committee on this matter, but I would also like to take the opportunity to thank the Cooperation Committee throughout the period, as this is the last day of the debate on health matters. Health is a major policy area. It directly intervenes in people's lives, and it's an area where some ideological differences can become quite obvious. The matter we have to deal with today is one of those things. The government has submitted a legislative proposal on the authorisation model for free choice of users in municipal health and care services. This setting is supported by the Government Parties and the Advance Party. In addition, minority proposals from the SV and from the Progress Party are promoted. They'll explain to themselves. Norway has proven to be better than most other countries under the pandemic, but we also have potential for improvement in several areas of healthcare. The availability of infective equipment was critical at the beginning of the pandemic and intensive capacity has been strongly challenged in the most infected areas. In addition, the pandemic has revealed weaknesses in the care of the elderly. Building conditions have been recorded, stressing the need for both rehabilitation and new construction of hospitals. Small and cross-institutional jobs have been identified as a risk factor for the spread of infection and as an important explanation of why Sweden has experienced more infection and more deaths in the care of the elderly. With this as a back ground, it is difficult to understand the desire to establish a rapid track for privatisation and fragmentation of municipal health and care services according to just the Swedish model. In addition, the Progress Party has proposed that all Norwegian municipalities with over 5000 inhabitants be required to open up to private operators. The working party says no to this fragmentation and the forced privatisation of the care of the elderly. Our answer is to invest in more employees and increased skills, because it is the competent professionals who are critical to the quality of care for the elderly. Experience from Denmark and Sweden shows that schemes of free choice in both countries have led to an increase in the proportion of bankruptcies among private healthcare providers. As a result, municipalities need to have services and staff on standby and bankruptcy may create uncertainty for users. It is the community and the municipalities that will be held liable in the event of the bankruptcy of private operators. Freedom of choice is not about the logo on the uniform of those who enter your home. Freedom of choice is about services that see the whole human being and that facilitate meaningful activities and enough people who have enough time to meet the needs of each one. With that, I'm presenting the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e182	Right-wing ambition is to create the patient's healthcare. Free choice of use is an important part of a healthcare service that places the patient in the centre. Municipalities do not always meet the needs and needs of our citizens, or do not take into account the diversity of the population. Freedom of choice is important for the Right; it is a goal that everyone should have the most control over their own everyday life. Freedom of choice provides diversity and opportunities for patients, users and relatives. We believe that the patient must have a choice. The patient should have an influence on the content of the service provision, the manner in which the service is provided and as far as possible the time at which the service is provided. It's not for everyone to stand up at seven o'clock. The free choice of users gives each individual increased influence over their own services and can adapt them more according to their own wishes and needs. It's about getting to live as normal as possible for as long as possible, and this is especially important when, after all, it's all about the most intimate and important things in life. During the hearing, one of the participants mentioned that free treatment options for them meant that the patient should decide whether to shower or not. For us, the question of showering or not being a basic part of being a boss in your own life – not being able to decide whether to shower or not, is an offense. Only a few of our municipalities have introduced free user choice. The proposal we are dealing with is to legislate an approval model that allows municipalities to introduce free user choice more easily and faster than if each municipality had investigated and created these frames themselves. We propose to legislate some basic principles for the application of an authorisation model for free choice of users in municipal health and care services. The approval model will be a legal framework that allows municipalities to introduce free user choice more easily and faster than if each municipality had investigated and created these frames itself. The user should be allowed to choose between suppliers having a contract with the local authority. The private operators must be approved by Helfo before they can submit tenders to the municipalities. It will be up to each municipality if they want to open up to private operators. For me, it is obvious that free treatment options are something that makes a municipality more attractive to live in than municipalities that do not give it to its inhabitants. Good and important work is being done in municipal health services. We certainly value the important and good work that is done every day in all of our municipalities, but we also know that an element of private offerings provides good alternatives, opens up new ways to solve the offers and bring new ideas and solutions into the municipal health service. In municipalities where the public has a monopoly on the provision of health and care services, freedom of choice is reserved to residents who have the opportunity to pay for another offer themselves. It contributes to a two-way sharing of healthcare.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e191	For the Advancement Party, it is a fundamental right to be the head of your own life – your whole life. Making your own choices is important to everyone, and especially in terms of the most basic thing in life. Too many are deprived of all these basic needs, but there is also the greatest difference between the left-hand side and the right-hand side of the policy. Where the right-hand side fights every day for the individual's right to a free life, the left-hand side uses all its powers to reduce it. The left-hand side has also clearly shown in its comments that they do not understand what real freedom of choice is. Sweden and Denmark are countries that are engaged in the freedom to choose, and therefore have given greater leadership to free choice of user than Norway. Health and care services should and must always be organised on the basis of the patient’s needs. Free user choice means the ability to choose who, what, when and how. The red-greens point out that freedom of choice in Sweden is reserved for those who can pay for ancillary services. If these parties believe that this is not the case in Norway with the municipal services, they need to take a look around. Furthermore, they believe that the most fragile older people in need of the service are also least likely to make choices in a market. This attitude toward other people I take a great distance from. It was therefore very provocative to record that trade unions working with these fragile elderly people, and not least the Pensioners' Association, also have such attitudes. My father is well over 80 years old and dying. He's one of these older crooks who's been taken away most of this life, but to take away his participation he doesn't find himself in. He's not a little child without opinions and wishes, although every day is a fight. Free choice of treatment has been a very important issue for the Advance Party – free choice of use is equally important, and it is crucial for all people who want to be the boss of their own lives. That's why users of BPA get so furious when their municipality proposes to make the scheme municipal. The Progress Party supports the government's proposal for an approval model that makes it easier and faster for municipalities to introduce free user choice and hopes that this will lead to more municipalities introducing this right. We believe that several actors in health care give an increased focus on quality and service. Experience from those municipalities that have introduced free user choice is very good, and user studies show a high level of satisfaction among users, patients and their relatives. It is unacceptable that in many municipalities only those with good advice have the option to choose which supplier they want to use. Therefore, the Progress Party believes that free user choice should be a right for all users and that it should be mandatory for municipalities with more than 5000 inhabitants to offer free user choice, and we propose it. And with that, I take up the proposal of the Advance Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e206	The representative of Kari Kjønaas Kjos has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e211	The government has submitted legislative proposals to Stortinget on the approval model for free choice. The centre party does not support the law change; we want to warn against it. Free choice is another word for privatisation of publicly funded welfare services. The aim of the scheme is to introduce a competitive system into municipally funded care for the elderly. It primarily applies to home-based services. The government looks at Sweden and their ‘laws on the system of freedom of choice’. If the objective is the privatisation and weakening of public care for the elderly, Sweden is a good example. In Stockholm in 2016, the total was 62 p.m. of all services provided by private individuals, while for us who want a strong elderly care for everyone, such development is a disaster. Several hearing authorities are concerned that the introduction of free preferences will lead to a high number of providers. It will make it difficult for the municipality to follow up the contract and make it difficult for users to find out where they are from. Sweden's experience shows that this is a problem. A high proportion of privatised care also leads to a high proportion with loose addition ratios. This has had fatal consequences during the pandemic in Sweden. In Norway, too, we know that high levels of temporary work and small settings have increased the risk of infection in hospitals. The government wants more of this. In Sweden, experience has shown that many providers are struggling with coordination, interaction and cooperation. The proposal increases red tape, which increases costs and provides a less professional space for action. This makes it difficult to keep the most vulnerable. The government also claims that older people are given increased freedom of choice and that competition is to be made on quality and not on price, but in Sweden experience is that it is difficult to document the change in quality for users. Experience seems to suggest that users who are able to make decisions are happy with their choice. So the choice system works best for the freshest and for those who can afford to buy extra services. This option also applies to choice of provider only, not to choice of content. Cruel elderly people who have reduced cognitive function as a result of, for example: dementia, cannot take advantage of the freedom of choice as well. Free choice also leads to more administration for municipalities to ensure defence in services and follow-up of contractual obligations. Are Swedish conditions the goal of Norwegian care for the elderly – the Swedish stopwatch care, the Swedish privatisation, Sweden’s two-part healthcare service where the purchase of additional services controls the development, the Swedish underfunded care for the elderly, the weakening of the preparedness for a crisis, the consequence of the pay and working conditions for those added, greater sick leave? The Swedish Korona Commission concluded before Christmas that Sweden failed to protect the elderly, and that they were added to themselves. Researchers point to the fragmentation of Swedish elderly care as an important cause. Privatisation and market-rightening of Swedish elderly care is one of the reasons for this fragmentation. The central party is therefore not in favour of a similar policy in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e222	We should not privatize healthcare. Commercialisation leads to fewer employees and more part-time. Sweden has had this scheme for several years, and the result is less help for those who need it the most. We need to employ more people with full and permanent jobs and give older and related people real freedom of choice and user power by introducing a trust reform. It gives freedom of choice. Clearly, the government will only save on the elderly. In the revised national budget, the Progress Party and the Government Parties have decided to cut down on development centres for nursing homes and home care. They move money from quality to a bureaucratic ‘fixed track’ privatisation scheme. It costs money to make tenders, it costs money to check tenders, and SV believes that this money should be used to strengthen the service, not sell it. SV is different from both the right and the other red-green parts. We are promoting proposals for trust reform and more freedom of choice in the public domain. SV believes that older people should be given more user power. We suggest freedom of choice instead of free user choice, which just means choosing a health care professional logo. What gives freedom of choice is that the health worker has time to have a conversation with Magda. What gives freedom of choice is that citizens can choose what they want to do with employees. What gives freedom of choice is that money should go to well-being and quality instead of profit. The Pensioners' Association is opposed, the majority of the municipalities are opposed, the Trade Union and the Nurses' Association, who spend all their time helping and caring for them, are opposed. SV is against ‘fixed track’ privatisation and is too more freedom of choice, which we propose today. We prioritise better services instead of bureaucratic schemes that are ‘free’ user choice. I am addressing all the suggestions that SV is promoting in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e235	Then the representative, Nicholas Wilkinson, has drawn up the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e240	Older or sick people are not in the same situation as the customer in the store. They are delivered daily to the priorities and decisions of others. The commercial profit motive must not affect the framework of the trust-based meeting between them and the system to maintain them. Our older people and others who need care services deserve that they are the ones who are in focus, not profit motives. Freedom of choice is not just about choosing a supplier. It is a derailment of the debate. Freedom of choice is about being able to influence the content of healthcare provision, but that is not what the government is proposing today. Since the start of the competitive environment in Sweden, care for the elderly has not improved. The experience is that the freedom of establishment of commercial companies in tax-funded welfare provides fragmented services, affects the weakest and lower pay and working conditions for employees. It provides an expensive control system. There will be more bureaucracy, which will increase costs, less cooperation and more detail management. Research from Sweden shows that people who are sick and elderly and who are in a difficult situation in life do not seem to be so easy to choose from among many different suppliers. Market access has led employees to less and less influence over their own working life – and therefore the elderly whom they are to help. In Sweden, care for the elderly is more privatised than in Norway. Their Corona Commission concluded that Sweden failed to protect the elderly and that the employees were left to themselves. Researchers point to the fragmentation of care for the elderly as an important cause. Privatisation and market-righting of the care of the elderly are one of the reasons for that fragmentation. But that's what the government wants. Commercial operates according to the objective of the Shares Act of Earnings. I have nothing to do with welfare. Quality and real freedom of choice go through increased manning and whole, permanent jobs. It is then possible to give older people, relatives and employees confidence in influencing the content of services. The local economy needs to be strengthened so that municipalities can operate the care of the elderly in a more satisfactory way, where the needs of the users and not the financial constraints of the municipality set the standard. What we need is a welfare promise, not government privatisation reforms.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e251	The government's ambition is to create the patient's healthcare. In this case, there is a clear dividing line between, on the one hand, the government and the Progress Party, which are occupied by the users and their freedom of choice, and, on the other hand, the opposition, which is occupied by the system. Health and care services must be organised on the basis of the needs of patients. Patients shall be guaranteed an equivalent offer of health and care services throughout the country. Freedom of choice is important for individuals. Free choice of use will help to create better health and care services that are better adapted to the individual's life and everyday life. Free choice of user means that individuals have more choice when they receive services from the public. It also means that the individual can just have power in his own life, and is not left to a right of appeal, but also has a right of exchange for what is most important in life. Several suppliers will also increase the variation in the range of offers to choose from. The proposal to legislate an authorisation model for free choice of users will provide municipalities with a better legal framework for faster and easier introduction of free choice of users. The basic principle of the proposal is that the user may choose from among those who are authorised and have a contract with the municipality. This is not the outsourcing of competition, but rather the avoidance of competitive outsourcing, and the fact that the different users actually have to choose them in order to provide services. The municipality announces a call listing the application process, the requirements and the contractual terms and conditions and also provides compensation for the suppliers. This means that suppliers do not compete for e.g. pensions or pay conditions for employees. Compliant suppliers are entitled to provide services on behalf of the municipality. The municipality has great freedom to design the requirements within the other framework of the law. The proposal also implies that the municipality has an obligation to make an offer on its own behalf for those users who do not – or have other reasons why they do not – choose suppliers other than the municipality or prefer the services of the municipality. I would like to point out that the municipality of course also needs to be prepared to offer a good offer to all its inhabitants. In order to meet the need for future care services, it is necessary that we use all available resources to solve the problem. We are absolutely sure that this system will also contribute to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e265	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e270	Small and cross-institutional jobs have been identified as a risk factor for the spread of infection and as an important explanation of why Sweden has experienced more infection and more deaths in the care of the elderly. In Norway, we know that employees have turned down additional guards at other hospitals in fear of spreading infection. With this as a wallpaper: Why will the Minister of Health facilitate more fragmentation of municipal health and care services?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e277	I do not believe that it is given that there will be smaller jobs as a result of this model, on the contrary. These are staff with a major shortage, and there is an even greater shortage in the future. If a health professional is to be recruited in the future, he must offer both good working conditions and good pay conditions. This matter is about the individual user's ability to decide more in his or her own life. This is not about choosing logos on the jacket. Torill Buer in the Lomme Valley, which I met, and which has this arrangement today, said that for her the most important thing was to get a shower at a fixed time in the morning. When the person she had chosen was unable to offer it further, she changed the supplier to someone who was able to do it. Had Toril lived in a red-green municipality, she could have sent a complaint e-mail to the municipality, but it had hardly led to her having been showered at the right time in the morning.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e284	I record that the Minister of Health is not dealing with what the recruitment agencies have warned us against, namely that this will make it more difficult to solve the crisis we are facing, with the lack of both nurses and health professionals. But I'm going to go on to the next question. The government itself stresses in the proposition that there has been an increasing proportion of bankruptcies among private operators in Sweden and Denmark. Local authorities must therefore be prepared to take over services on short notice. Does the Minister of Health think that there is so much slack in Norwegian care for the elderly that they have the capacity to take over service portfolios almost overnight?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e293	No, there is no lack of Norwegian health and care services, but the municipalities have a basic preparedness. The municipalities must also have it today, because the municipalities do not know from one day to the next when needs arise in a municipality. So it's a kind of preparedness that municipalities must have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e298	Then I got a chance: the experience from Sweden shows that over time this does not increase the competence and professionalism of the service. On the contrary, it has become more difficult to obtain skilled personnel. We in the Workers' Party and a single left-hand side believe that it is the employees who represent the main input factor for quality. Is not the Minister of Health concerned that it is becoming more difficult to get access to the good people with the model that has been shown to lead in Sweden to the opposite of what the Minister of Health wants to achieve?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e305	First, it was a period here today that I wondered if I was in the Swedish parliament or in the Norwegian storehouse when I heard the statements from the opposition. Never before have I heard people from the left come down so much on a neighboring country governed by their party traps, the social democrats. If this system was so strongly opposed to social democracy, it is strange that the Social Democratic Government in Sweden has not liquidated it. This is not a blue copy of the Swedish solution. This is a Norwegian solution. In addition, the Norwegian Government, in relation to the challenges pointed out here by the representative, has provided entirely different responses, including: Competence lift 2025. We do not put aside the other tools we have – to ensure both competence, recruitment and the entire position – because we give users greater freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e312	Privates will have a right to operate healthcare with this model, while municipalities have a duty. I think that the de minimisisation of the Council of State is of particular responsibility to the municipalities, because one must understand that if there are a large number of private providers in a municipality, and for various reasons they are either to quit, go bankrupt or run irresponsiblely, then the municipality should be able to assume such a great responsibility in the day. It is not that one can compare with today's situation, because today the municipalities run the care of the elderly and have competence in it. So how serious is this proposal when it comes to securing a readiness for everyone to have defence services, regardless of whether the private go bankrupt or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e319	Fortunately, municipalities in Norway today have this scheme. In fact, they are currently very much dependent on using competitive outsourcing to give users free choice. But with this system, they do not need to use competitive outsourcing. Interestingly, the opposition has argued strongly against the competitive outsourcing. Now there's a proposal here that gives users freedom of choice without outsourcing competition, but one also fights against this. It shows you're against it, it's freedom of choice. What you are against is that the individual citizen of Norway should have greater power in his or her own life. Because here's a system where you avoid putting out competition and at the same time give people greater power in their own lives. The municipalities of Norway which have this kind of freedom of choice have not experienced the conditions that the representative here draws up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e326	In particular, one will go into a Swedish model and – as the representative Tuva Moflag was involved in his reply – that one will have Sweden as a model for a law, when we know what has happened in Sweden during the pandemic, where the Swedish Korona Commission concluded that the fragmentation in Swedish elderly care was an important reason why it went so crazy in Sweden as it has done. Then it is appropriate to ask the Council of State if the government has not assessed whether this is a fraud. Now the Progress Party is out of government. In the government its Christian People's Party, there its Left and Right, and this is at the bottom and on the basis of a Progress Party proposal. How could the government proceed with this when we look at the experience from Sweden?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e333	The challenges we have seen in Sweden are not linked to just the private actors. It has also been established that this was not the case in the political statements that came in Sweden early in the pandemic, that the problem was the private actors who did not deal with the situation – it has been refuted. There are many Swedish municipalities that do not have this scheme, which have had similar challenges. This is about more fundamental problems that we in Norway have solved in other ways, for example: through a clearer commitment to the competence of these services: to set requirements for competence, to have the possibility of continuing training, to offer larger jobs, etc. It will also be possible for one to do within this scheme. It would be very strange if a municipality that chooses to use this scheme does not impose the same competences on the private suppliers as they have for their own services.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e341	If the Right believed that they would have more freedom of choice, the Right could vote in favour of the SV's proposal for more freedom of choice in the public domain. Most people use public health services. We have a crew crisis. We know that we will lack 28 000 nurses and 18 000 health professionals in 2035. Without people we get no good services and no freedom of choice. Will the government of this scheme ensure that there are full and permanent posts? Will the government, for example, propose that providers have to have a large majority of full-time and permanent jobs for those working in the service? Because we have learned, from Sweden, that the private have many more part-time employees. Will the government make any proposals to ensure full and firm positions in free user choice?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e348	We have learned, from Norway, that the municipal operation of health and care services is not a guarantee against either temporary use, small percentages or many part-time jobs. So the challenges that the representative here describes are created in a public Norwegian system. In my opinion, it is completely wrong now to try to present it as if giving users freedom of choice is what has created these problems. No, this is created by Norwegian municipalities, and not least in municipalities like SV and the other red-green parties control and have all the power in it, there are too many part-time jobs and too many temporary jobs. The SV's proposal on freedom of choice in this matter is an illusion, it is no reality, for the citizens who will have the freedom of choice of the SV will be in the same situation as today. They can send an e-mail to the municipality, but they cannot use the right that we appreciate in all other areas, namely the right to exchange if we are not satisfied with the most important thing in our life. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e355	Time's up. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e362	The free choice of users clearly shows the political differences in this room. The Kjønnas Kjos of the Progress Party says she's spent her time in politics fighting for people's right to free life, and that the left-hand side uses all the forces to fight it. For me, it's a very special rewriting of the story. Just the community, not privatisation, has provided mine, and very, very many others, the freedom to live good lives, through the fact that we have built good public systems for both education and health. Right Erlend Larsen says it's not suitable for everyone to stand up at noon. 07. As a B-man, I fully agree with that statement. He also says that people have to decide if they want to shower or not. I fully agree with that statement, but then it short-circuits for me, because that's the argument for privatizing. For me, it is an argument that we should use the money we have to strengthen the services of our citizens rather than create a commercial market for this. It's a little special that Right Erlend Larsen says it after eight years with a Health Minister from the Right. Then it's his description of the situation during this government's time. I want to take up a few things that the government parties do not pay any attention to: Who is going to pay for this? We have a system that already resembles quite a lot: what is called free treatment choices, or private treatment choices. There we see that the cost of e.g. Southern hospitals, from which I come, have doubled in the number of millions from 2018 to 2019. At the same time, the government's representatives of Sørlanden are laughing at the fact that Sørlanden Hospital does not have enough money to make the necessary investments in our hospital. That is a natural consequence of the privatisation tool that we see from the government parties and the Progress Party. Then I stumble on one more thing, because Erlend Larsen says that private operators must be approved by Helfo. Yes, that's all right, but in the free choice of treatment, we have a recent example from my county, or constituency, Aust-Agder. In Tvedestrand, a drug institution supervised by the government administrator who did not go so well and ended up deprived of their approval by Helfo. The company was bankrupt, but had already a new company ready to start up again. That company got a new approval from Helfo. When I asked the Minister of Health if this was so good, he said it was totally okay. They can be ready to start up again, while others have to take the bill for unpaid wages and that kind of thing. There is also a great deal of concern about the quality of these institutions. Do patients receive the follow-up they are entitled to? Although the la-humla-suse attitude of the government on the quality requirements you set makes it easier for us to argue against it, at least I would urge that a provider provide good quality assurance systems here, so that this takes care of patients in a good way, and that no thoughts of privatisation are first managed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e375	When I take the floor, I can tell you that in October 2009, I first met in Stortinget, as a member of the Health Committee. When I hear the debate and the dividing lines between the red-green parties and the government parties and the Progress Party today, nothing has changed. At that time, the focus was on the quality of our care services, on user involvement, on free choice of treatment. At that time the red-greens defended that today's model was glittering, but today they claim that if you get free user choice, you get user involvement, it gets bad. Then there will be worse services. Very familiar is a number of the country's municipalities run by the red-green parties. As the Health Minister says, it is not the case in most municipalities today that the individual can decide when to eat when to shower. You say no, if you were to get user help and private come, what is our readiness? Yes, what is our readiness? We say there are vulnerable people, older people who need help. I and many others have had children in kindergarten. The first kindergarten in Norway was private, in Trondheim. About half of the kindergartens are private. As far as I know, young children are very vulnerable. They can't talk for themselves either. The parents choose. It is strange that it has been okay, but being able to help decide for yourself is not good when you get older. Then you say, "What is the readiness?" When municipalities are responsible for kindergartens, do not the municipalities then have the readiness to deploy and cover more than half of the children in Norway? No, you don't. I'm fine. Those who start these services have often worked in the municipality. They want something more. They want to do what they really want: deliver good services, get to decide for themselves, facilitate. Such competition has always worked, but here comes the ideology, it stands in the way and defends the system. It is almost strange that the Center Party does not come up with that we should have government stores – think of something as important as food. We should have been prepared for the state to take over shops, for the state to run them. Or clothes: it's weird we have the selection we have today, it's private. It's about time. The red-greens have tried in the country's municipalities, they've tried it on the state side. It is also time for older people and caregivers to be assisted by users. It's about dignity in care.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e392	Finally, it is not without concern when a municipality has gradually had a very large proportion of private kindergartens, perhaps 100 pst. The day the private nursery company goes bankrupt, it can become a very demanding situation. There is also a lack of preparedness, and the developments that have taken place since the day-care centre conciliation are cause for concern. When State Council Höie answers that there are similar challenges in Sweden also in public, and that it is not just related to the private actors, it is correct under the pandemic. But the point is that the system introduced in Sweden, with a competitive face and privatisation, helps to influence both the public and the private services. There will be a race at the bottom of all old care. This is the fragmentation brought about by the Korona Commission in Sweden – that public and private services over time face the same challenges, and that there will be a negative spiral with such a system, as this government now, with the support of the Progress Party, will introduce into Norway. The Norwegian elderly care system needs, is a better economy, the right skills, and stable and whole settings. The experience of Sweden is that this will be even more difficult to achieve in a competitive system. While options will ensure authenticity for the elderly, it is a choice of providers, but not of content in services. I believe that in the case of care for the elderly in particular, it cannot be compared to childcare. Many of those in need of public health care in hospitals are very poor and require a lot of help and expertise. I have bid in a right-hand municipality – I am fortunately no longer doing so. At that time, they had introduced a kind of offer in the care of the elderly. My father got an offer from the private providers who looked pretty nice, but at the bottom, in a small print, it said that if a person needed help at night or on weekends, a local offer had to be used. This means that those who are the most fragile of the elderly, those who need the most help, are not good enough for such a privatisation policy. This is a system for the healthiest of the elderly, and it is an unworthy system.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e405	There's no one from the left who's talking down participation. We talk with concern about the fragmentation of services, we talk with concern that the quality decreases when it becomes more difficult to recruit qualified professionals. We talk with concern that preparedness is getting worse, because the experience from Denmark and Sweden shows that there is a greater proportion of bankruptcy. It's actually writing the government parts themselves in the proposition that they've made. It's really just about taking the consequences of the studies you've done yourself. The Labour Party believes that we must say no to this bill. We would rather bet on a stepping-up plan for more staffing in the care of the elderly. We need more permanent jobs, and we need a comprehensive care for the elderly. We don't need any more fragmentation and fragmentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e412	This is an interesting debate, for here clearly the ideology stands in the way of the good measures. When you say that there's a risk that there will be fewer jobs, there will be fragmentation, it's today's system that leads to it -- it's today's public services, that's what's small fractions, because you don't have the economy good enough. You close spaces and make offers, and it happens in red-green municipalities. The representative Toppe mentions that she has lived in a right-hand-driven municipality. I've lived in a Centerpart-steered municipality, together with the Progress Party, for eight years, a municipality that didn't own anything. Everything was exposed to competition, except the nursing home, there was an agreement on that. It actually went well, because the centre party was civilly oriented. Absolutely everything was exposed to competition. Even the town hall, which was so important, was not owned by itself. It went perfectly well. I have faith in competition, and so does the Progress Party. And not just competition, it's about dignity. You talk about vulnerable people. The representative Tuva Moflag mentions that with older and especially sick people, it is difficult. Yes, on the same line as a little child in the kindergarten. A small child cannot explain or read, but they do help others. For the Advancement Party, it's all about life, being human and head of your own life. That's the big difference that everyone should notice. Here they want red-green back to the way it was, they want to keep in question an old system that hasn't worked at all. That's why there has been rebellion, that's why there have been protests, that's why there is a crisis in the municipalities – you can't deliver the service. Here's the government that decides, and you're not authorized to be nurturing. You don't have to be old, it's that you need help, it's about. But all of a sudden when you need care and services, it's so hard. Yes, of course it's difficult, at least for that one. For the Progress Party, the human being is important, not the system, and we will continue to work for that. We are pleased that we are now approaching user involvement. Then you talk about Sweden and Denmark, you have to do it, but here we stand in the Norwegian Stortinget to find Norwegian solutions in 2021. I'm not so concerned about what's going on in neighbouring countries, I'm concerned that the individual person himself should be the head of his own life.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e429	I think maybe the Progress Party representative has forgotten that we are different parties. SV is different from the Centre Party and the Working Party. We are in favour of public freedom of choice and more user power, but the Progress Party has said that they will vote against it. It's sad, because the vast majority of people who use the elderly service use it publicly. This proposal is only for a few, and I hope that the Progress Party will vote in favour of the SV's proposal, which will apply to many more. We also need to talk about the costs, because this costs a lot of money. It costs to make tenders. In Oslo, when the infirmarys were exposed to competition, it cost several million kroner in the bureaucracy to make tenders. And that's just the beginning. After that, you have to have inspectors who can check in and check in and see if they follow the rules, because the state or the municipality does not own it. It also costs a lot of money. SV believes that this money should be used to hire more people to help people, not a bureaucratic system, as the right parties propose now. The problem is also that the costs of care for the elderly are almost just wages. Local authorities must take the money out of the care of the elderly, from home care and home care, to private services. Then they cut into public services. But the private commercial should have profit, and as I said, wages are almost the entire cost. If they're going to make money, they're going to have to cut costs, because the government only sends one sum. If they're going to have profit, they're going to have to cut, and then it's just pay. Then they have to cut employees, have fewer people or more part-time jobs, not full and permanent jobs, or just have fewer people who can't help people. It's cut, cut, cut for the employees when you privatize the scheme. It's just the employees who help people. It's not an angel or a robot that helps, it's just the employees. So when they cut employees, there is less care and less freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e440	The SV representative just said that if you want to have private operators, you have to hire inspectors to check that the quality is satisfactory. Control and standardisation of existing services should also be carried out. The services provided by municipalities should also be monitored and evaluated. It's also being done to some degree. Not all municipalities in Norway provide services of the same quality and quality. It is implicit in the assumption that SV’s representative just came along. We know that several municipalities in Norway provide services of very low quality. We have had a case with a municipality that supplied food that did not contain nutritionally high enough quality. We have had cases with municipalities that had similar – what to say – problems as in the Adecco scandal we had a few years ago. So we know that the public isn't always of the top class either. Regardless of who provides a service, an assessment of the quality of the services our citizens receive should be carried out and the quality should be assessed by anyone other than those who delivers it. For example, the municipalities carry out the evaluation of their own kindergartens. It's putting the goat to the oat sack. It should have been done by others, by neighbouring municipalities or by the State. The SV’s representative also says that the only thing to do is to cut off employees, because only the employees’ wages are a cost item. But it is that different providers are able to provide services in different ways. There are those who provide services in a more efficient and smarter way, who have a better way of organizing them. One of the factors that separates is sick leave. Sick leave is to a large extent, at least a long way to go, a matter of management, to a large extent of how good managers are to be leaders, to see the employees, to follow up the employees — at all — to be good managers. We have the same thing within Life's whole life reform. It also assumes that there are 356 municipalities providing 356 different services, although expectations are the same. They have to provide the same services, but the quality we know is different. That's the whole foundation of Life's whole life-reform. It is not that because a service is provided by a municipality, it is automatically of the highest quality. Nor is it the case that if a service is provided by a private supplier, it is speculative and of poor quality – on the contrary. I believe in people. I believe in people whether they work in public or in private, and those who want to do a good job do a good job.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e455	The representative Kjersti Top has the word twice before and gets the word to a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e461	It's rarely I hear a Right-Representative talk so hot about increasing bureaucracy, little trust and increasing controls instead of spending money on services close to people. What is the point of this case is that the Korona Commission in Sweden before Christmas concluded that Sweden failed to protect the elderly and that they were left to themselves. And researchers pointed to the fragmentation of Swedish care for the elderly as an important reason. Privatisation and market-rightening of Swedish elderly care is one of the reasons for this fragmentation. That's what's worrying us, that this government is now going to introduce a corresponding system in Norway. The Christian People's Party has not taken the floor in this matter at all, and I understand very well why.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e468	Nicholas Wilkinson has held the word twice before and gets the word to a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e473	I very much agree with the Right-Representative that it is important that managers work to reduce sick leave. We in the Health and Care Committee at Stortinget are now leaders, and now we are told by health professionals and nurses that they are running and running and becoming sicker and sicker and sicker. The government didn't give vaccines to temporary agents. They don't get good professional rights. They are now fighting to get a good wage to live off, but the government will have to pay off. We're leaders, and the government doesn't do a good job of reducing sick leave. The government's policy is increasing sick leave in hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e480	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox Case No. 2 and 3 will be treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e511	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, eight rows of answers will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e518	I would like to present, as the rapporteur-general, the position of the Health and Care Committee on the four proposals for representatives, Documents 8:169 S, 8:198 S, 8:200 S and 8:244 S, all of which deal with dental health. The Committee, through written consultation with regard to these cases, received 32 recordings. The Committee agrees to express its concern that the use of dental care is one of the areas in which we currently see significant social or socio-economic differences due to the personal economy of the individual. This is a finding that emerges from the Statistics Central Agency report Social inequality in the use of healthcare from 2017. Further efforts must therefore be made to strengthen the ability of individuals to care for their own dental health, irrespective of their economy. The Committee also considers that it is necessary to note that the corona epidemic may have contributed negatively to the ability of some groups to maintain their own, necessary dental health, for example. long-term unemployed. In addition, the Committee points to the need for good prevention in the field: cohesion of geographical differences, recruitment challenges and the need for closer follow-up of older people, long-term illness and disability in institutions and home care. This approach also affects the organisation of regional centres of excellence, where one today sees that these are located in our largest cities, raising the question of whether or not it contributes adequately to the decentralisation of specialised dental competence. In the examination of the last proposal for a representative, the Committee has taken into account the organisation of the offer to persons who are victims of torture and abuse or who have odontophobia, where unacceptable long waiting periods of up to several years are observed. In the opinion of the Committee, there is a majority for one proposal. The proposal is that a request from the government strengthens the organized dental provision for victims of torture and assault and those with severe dental distress, in connection with the state budget for 2022. Besides, there are 21 minority proposals, which the different parties are probably going to include in their articles. I'm now going to argue for the Workers' Party's vision. The working party is very concerned about the big inequalities you see in dental health, and that the government doesn't take this seriously. Already in 2018, we received a majority in Stortinget for a request decision to strengthen Norwegian dental health with the aim of equalising social inequalities in dental health by helping those who need it the most. This would include, inter alia: by reviewing and strengthening the reimbursement arrangements, paying particular attention to those who do not currently have a financial opportunity to receive the necessary dental treatment. More than two and a half years later, the government has still not delivered on this proposal. There is evidence of a lack of interest in lifting the dental field. However, they have delivered on cutting the social benefits of dental regulation for children and young people, tightening the support system for people with severely impaired ability to care for their own dental health and underregulation of social security rates in the eight years we have had a Right-Handed Government. However, the working party will go in the opposite direction and strengthen public dental health. Therefore, we have repeatedly proposed free dental health, up to 21 years, half price to 25 years, own social welfare scheme for those with poor finances and extension of coverage in some diseases, for example. for cancer survivors, resulting in an after-effect in the oral cavity. The long-term objective must be that the teeth should not be treated differently from the rest of the body in terms of their ability to take care of them without the decision of the wallet. Today it is just that the wallet decides, unfortunately. A study from Opinion in 2018 showed that almost half of the Nordics with income below NOK 300000 have either failed or delayed to go to the dentist for economic reasons. 14 pst. I replied that they had had to take up a loan in order to have the necessary dental treatment carried out. We can't have it that way. In addition to this majority proposal, therefore, the Labour Party is behind a number of proposals that all aim to raise dental health higher on the political agenda and ensure that we address the differences we see in the field. Unfortunately, we again see a huge loss from the government parties in the area. The only thing that they are behind is three proposals to annex the proposals for representatives to the Minutes. It should be noted that optimists who are concerned with dental health. I would have liked to see that we had received a majority for more in this matter today, because people are rightly impatient in this matter. When the poor network has previously told us that people have to draw their teeth rather than fix them because it's cheaper, yes, we have a long way to go before we've made sure that it's not on the smile you can see how much people have in the wallet. Although I had hoped for more support for our proposals in this case from the Progress Party, I would commend them for raising the situation of TOO patients in their representative proposal. They must, however, take responsibility for the fact that the system that was set up while they themselves were in government has not been well enough prepared or financed, but it is totally unacceptable that persons who have been subjected to serious incidents, such as torture and assault, are almost held to be fooled by a scheme that does not work today. Then it must be seized. I can see that the position is in agreement. The fact that people who live with big life dreams are going to have to wait several years for needed dental treatment is not a worthy way to treat people in a vulnerable situation. I'll bring it up with you the suggestions the Labour Party is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e548	The representative, Tellef Inge Mørland, has drawn up the suggestions he made.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e553	The time has come for a dental reform. SV has a plan that the teeth are treated as part of the body. The majority of the people are for that. It's an obvious hole in our well-being that we should fill. The government of Solberg has given Norway’s richest more than 9 billion. kr in tax cuts. If the richest had paid the tax they should have received, we would have had resources for a dental reform. SV's proposals on dental reform start with the youngest, the oldest and those who need it the most, and we will roll out the reform gradually. The objective is a full reform over two major periods. Today’s government has not just left off investing in better dental health, they have weakened it – the whole 133,000 children and young people are waiting for the corona. People with severe anxiety and trauma are at risk of up to four years of waiting. It's unworthy. The government insists on a patchwork of dental rights, where gaps are growing. We do not want to patch up, we want to invest in a full reform. We have a plan, and we're going to get it through. We can't afford to go on like today, where you risk having to deal with serious, untreated dental problems because you can't afford them. Half of those who have an unmet need for dental health report that there is an economy that makes them not looking for dentists – economics is the main cause. In 2018, one in three reported that they have dropped to the dentist due to economics. One in four can't afford a large emergency bill for larger dental treatments, says the SSB. About 190 000 people have costs of more than 10000 kroner for dental practitioners in a year. Now the banks have started profiling that people can borrow to cover the necessary dental treatment. It's unworthy, and it's unfair. SV will have a welfare state that gives people opportunities and that they can give priority to resources instead of being afraid of a giant bill from the dentist office. I am the case rapporteur for one of the dental matters. The majority believe that public support schemes in the field of dental care need to be strengthened. Then it is clear that the policy is not good enough, and that there is a majority on the Stortinget to improve it. That's why it's a sad day, because it's a majority for just one of the proposals that SV has put forward in the case. There is a majority to strengthen dental provision for torture and assault victims. There are big queues for those who need help the most. SV has also made proposals in the context of the revised national budget, because TOO lacks 16 million. kr. SV expects the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Center Party to contribute 16 million. NOK to this scheme right now – they need 16 million. NOK, and we have an opportunity to help these people this year and not wait until 2022. Then there will be a concrete reinforcement for these patients. I refer to all the SV's proposals in case No. Two and three. SV votes for the proposals No. 8 and 9, of the Workers' Party and of the Centre on Case No. 3, and we are voting in favour of the two solutions proposed by the Red in Case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e583	The representative Nicholas Wilkinson has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e588	The teeth are an important part of the body, but it's still a long way to go before dental health is funded over the tax bill, as it is with the rest of the body. Today, the state pays $6 billion. DKK for dental treatment, while the patient pays 12 billion. kr. In other words, it is a long way to go before it is possible for the state to cover all dental expenses. 12 B.C.E. kr corresponds to half of the cultural budget. Multi-lots have increased support for dental treatment in several areas during this government period. There is money spent on a trial project to strengthen dental care for people receiving home care or living in a nursing home. The government has progressively extended the shielding systems. Since 2013, the protection systems for persons with special needs have increased. There are now half a million people over the age of 21 who each year receive dental treatment from the population. A separate social welfare scheme is in place for persons who do not have teeth in the lower jaw and are unable to use a gebiss. The scheme for people who wear dry mouth has been reinforced by approximately 700 million. kr since 2014. Oral dryness is often an adverse reaction to drug consumption and, in addition, a minor influence on individuals themselves. An extra effort has been made to offer help to patients with odontophobia, or what is called dental fright. This may particularly apply to people who are victims of sexual assault or to immigrants who are subject to torture. Government parties will further develop dental care and provide targeted assistance to those who need it. We have set the goal of gradually expanding the protective systems in dental care, and we have done so for those population groups that are most vulnerable and have the weakest economy. More and more people are receiving dental benefits from public health. In 2017, 130 000 more persons received such benefits than in 2014. Now it's half a million people who receive every year the benefit of dental treatment from public health. We are working to increase the number of people with poor advice and disease to receive free dental treatment. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV propose that the government carry out an evaluation of the regional odontological centres of excellence. Government parties do not support this because the government has already received this order through the Government Declaration. A number of proposals have been made on this matter. Our reasons are well described in the document that follows the case, under each proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e605	It's time to recognize that the teeth are part of the body. The promotion party believes that dental care needs to be strengthened through a better reimbursement scheme. Dental practitioners must be an integral part of the interplay of the health sector, which is necessary for patient safety, joint action against lifestyle diseases and in order to ensure the financial rights of patients. In 1998, the government asked the government to assess the establishment of regional odontological centres of excellence. The purpose of the centres was to strengthen county responsibility for equal access to specialist dental services throughout the country. The county councils were tasked with establishing centres of competence in the five different regions. Today there are five centres, with two centres in West Norway – one in Bergen and one in Stavanger – and the three others located in Oslo, Tromsø and Trondheim. The Progress Party is concerned that the location of centres of excellence in areas with very good specialist coverage has led to a low level of competition with a well-functioning private sector and a loss of competence from the university environments. There is no basis for having two parallel publicly funded training courses for dental specialists in Norway, and therefore the Progress Party wishes to transfer ownership of the regional odontological centres of competence from the county to the universities. An important objective of dental services in Norway should be that all have equal access to treatment, regardless of ethnic, gender, personal or life situations. On TV2 news earlier this year it could be seen that odontophobia, torture and assault spaces with high dental needs have to wait more than four years for the TOO teams in the public dental service to get to an assessment interview. We can't accept that. These patients have major dental problems that pose a risk to the development of serious infections. Many have mental problems and struggle with shame and guilt, and such a long waiting period can lead to a serious deterioration of already existing mental problems. Therefore, the planned dental provision for this group needs to be considerably strengthened over the years to come. With this, I will address the proposals of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e618	The representative of Morten Stordalen has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e623	The size shall take account of several suggestions submitted on dental services. One proposal seems to be getting multiples. It is necessary to strengthen the organised dental provision for torture and assault and people with odontophobia. Today, people with odontophobia or who have been subjected to torture and assault may risk being put in line for years to get the treatment of the TOO teams in the public dentistry service. In many countries, there are long waiting lists both to enter evaluation talks and to start interdisciplinary treatment. In 2020, only one country met the target of a maximum of eight weeks waiting time. This is a patient group that cannot be expected. Here the government needs to take responsibility and ensure a defensive dental offer for the most vulnerable. Now this offer is being evaluated, and it's high time. In the case of the proposal on regional and odontological centres of excellence, the Central Party supports the proposal to carry out an evaluation of all centres of competence, including: must ensure that a centre has achieved its objective of contributing to decentralised specialist dental services and that the state support system is correct. We also propose that the government should take action to ensure that regional and odontological centres of excellence are effectively decentralised. The University of Bergen writes in the hearing that the location of TkVestland, which is located in the same building as the specialist clinic of the University, does not guarantee a fair geographical distribution of specialist dental services in the new Western state. Studies indicate that the use is inversely proportional to the distance and that previous Sogn and Fjords do not benefit adequately from the offer. The Minister of Health wrote in his letter to the Committee that this is the responsibility of the county council, but I think it is a discharge. The establishment of the Centre of Competence was made by the Stortinget, and if the national system does not function after the intention, the Stortinget must of course be able to come on the track to provide leadership that actually ensures a decentralised supply, as the intention of the scheme has always been. In the setting, there are several suggestions for a dental reform. The centre party is on the proposal for a gradual extension of publicly funded dental health, where one assesses the maximum price for dental treatment and creates a screening scheme for those with poor finances. The national meeting of the Central Party decided on the weekend that dental treatment should be included under a self-interest measure, but we do not go into any other proposal in this setting, because they do not entirely match our formulations. The centre party is also committed to strengthening the economy of the county councils, so that one does not force the centralization of dental clinics, which we see has happened in several states. These are services that must be close to people. It is particularly bad for the elderly and children if there is a long journey. I want to record an item that is not described in the option. There are concerns about developments in the Norwegian dental clinic market, where large international chains take over, and individual dental clinics become fewer. It is often an aggressive marketing of dental eggs abroad to fix teeth in low-cost countries. There is a risk of over-treatment, and this leads to a risk of infection of antibiotic-resistant bacteria, which we are going to have a debate on later today. Complications have to be taken care of in Norwegian dentists. This should have been better regulated than today. As I said, this is not mentioned in the draft representative, but it is an important matter to address.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e642	Dental disease and increased need for dental treatment are encountered at random and unfairly. In a non-profit world, all the necessary dental treatment would have been covered by the public, in the same way as other health challenges. I mean – like many others in this room – that it is artificial to distinguish between health and the rest of the body, and that it is about both somatic and mental health protection in this context. But so far there are no parties here that have managed to find money for this in the budget when it comes to priorities. That, I think, comes not least, but not only from the fact that clean repair, expensive implants using a large number of techniques, regulation and enamel damage will in part be perceived as cosmetic corrections and often intertwine, and that any right to free dental treatment is thus difficult to price. I've heard sums from three to fifteen billion. kr – there may be a lot more. Fortunately, public funding is linked to dental damage after an accident. People's Security Pays $2.50. kr for dental treatment, including dental accidents. This government’s commitment to dental health has been to extend the dental protection systems to selected groups and with emphasis on specific treatments, not a purely universal scheme. There has been a natural part of the Left's health focus in government, and in terms of this work, we will continue with further expansions. I recall the wording of the Granavolden platform, and I would ask SV to note this in particular, that we keep what we promise, namely: «Developing the dental service further, and gradually extending the protection systems.» They shall continue to be extended, both to vulnerable groups and to people with congenital conditions and diseases, chroniclers and others with long-standing or severe disease. The government’s policy is therefore to follow up several of the Blankholm Committee’s recommendations, with a continuous focus on prevention. That should also be mentioned here.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e656	Everyone agrees that good dental health is important, and we are concerned that dental care is an area that includes: the personal economy of the individual is too important. The government has gradually expanded the shielding systems since 2013, and that is good. At the same time, there is a need to continue working on measures that help to strengthen the ability of individuals to maintain their own dental health, regardless of their own economy. There are now more than half a million adults receiving dental support as a result of the gradual expansion of protective systems. There is a psychological and dental provision for people who are victims of torture or assault or who are afraid of dental treatment. This is now available in all county municipalities, and that's good. The scheme has been regularly strengthened in recent years, at the latest in the budget for 2021, with an increase of 15 million. kr. Unfortunately, many people have to wait a long time for this treatment. I think it is good that the Council of State has launched an evaluation of the county community offer, so that targeted action is put in place where it is needed. In his reply to the Committee, the Minister for Health wrote: ‘The pandemic has led too many counties to a general lag in dental services that also affects TOO patients. Furthermore, there are likely different reasons for waiting times. Demand has been high and partly increasing as the supply has been established and known. The county councils differed in the development of the offer. Challenges with recruitment, in particular psychologists, are also reported to be a cause for long waiting times for both assessment and interdisciplinary treatment teams.’ As I said, an evaluation has been started. The Health Directorate is now involved, and I hope that we can get a response to what kind of action needs to be taken to enable this offer to be further developed. It's important to know a little bit about how the plug in this system sits, and few measures that reduce the excessive waiting time for patients. If you get seriously ill and get hospitalized, you don't have a guarantee that your teeth will stay healthy. Providing these patients with a good service also becomes important in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e674	Difference Norway has been reinforced by a crisis policy where billionaires have become even richer, while hundreds of thousands have fallen in income or lost their jobs. In practice, when teeth are not treated as part of the body, it is suggested that the differences in society are reflected in the health of the population. Bad advice is the main reason people don't go to dentists. The proportion is highest among the unemployed, students and disabled. One in four unemployed people have dropped their dental treatment even if they need treatment. And imagine how many people are postponing dental treatment now under the corona, not just because of infection protection measures, so that they can get to the dentist when the infection situation improves, but because more people have received poor advice. Therefore, it is urgent to begin to phase in free dental treatment. Surveys show that low-income households have significantly lower dental health than those who can afford better. It's not surprising. When people have to pay several thousand, the consequence is that people who have poor advice cannot meet their health needs. Delaying dental visits for a long time can have serious consequences. There are invisible cows in today's dental system with people who never get the treatment they need. It's a system where people with bad advice have to drop dental visits or take out consumption loans to pay the bill. The government has implemented unsocial cuts in dental care. The closure of public clinics and centralisation has created longer roads and less accessibility. Then we can't just stop and reverse; we have to build the country in the opposite direction. There is a need for public welfare reforms for most people who are building up our common well-being. Repatriation of the economy must go hand in hand with strengthening our welfare systems. Today it is the wallet that determines whether you can afford healthy teeth or not. Now is the time for a welfare reform to equalise dental health with other health services. There's a lot of popular support, because most people realize it can't be that good dental health depends on the size of the wallet. Now it's time for politicians to understand that too, and if we're to believe what the parties say, there should be a majority for a dental reform today. The national meeting of the Centre Party was aimed at introducing a self-proprietary system on dental health, as is the case for medical visits and other health services. And the good news is that we have suggestions for exactly that today – it's just to vote for it! In the notes, the Progression Party writes that the teeth are part of the body and that disease in the oral cavity must therefore be viewed as an ordinary diagnosis. The Progress Party representative repeated the same points here today, and then I encourage you to go from word to action. And the good news is that you have the opportunity to do so today – it's just to vote on our proposal! The employee party representative said that the long-term objective is to equalise dental health with other health services. I also have a good news for you – it's just to vote for our proposal today! Of course, I also have a good news for a government party, the Christian People's Party, which goes in to investigate publicly funded dental health. You can also vote for it today. It's really up to you to leave here with another round where politicians say one thing, but do something else, or if we can say that this is the starting point for our time's great welfare reform, namely a dental reform. As we all know, the teeth are in the mouth, more or less in the row and row. Nevertheless, public rains the teeth as part of the body just until you're 18. Other health services have a branch. You know that very well, but no one can ever answer that, is, what's the reason that your teeth are outside? There's not a good reason for that. Like the populace, Red is sorry that dental health is something it's just talking about. We will give priority to a dental reform where the teeth are treated as part of the body, with objectives of free dental health. We need that to get equal health care for everyone. I'll bring it up to Red's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e691	The representative Seher Aydar then drew up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e696	The representative proposals that are being discussed today cover almost all aspects of the dental field, and I would therefore like to remind you of the government's efforts since we joined in 2013. In the Granavolden platform, it says that we will ‘develop the dental care and gradually extend the protective systems’. There has been an extension of the screening systems, and more and more people now receive support for dental treatment from the population. In 2014, 400,000 adults received dental benefits, and in 2020 about 500,000 received such benefits. Since 2014, approximately 315 million have been paid. kr to several thousand older people, who have implanted prosthesis, which means a lot to the ability to eat and talk. That same year, we increased the rates for people with dry mouth, and then it's granted over 800 million. kr for this group. The government promoted in 2017 proposals for the transfer of public dental care responsibilities to the municipalities. During the bottling process, a test system was adopted for those municipalities who wanted to take over the responsibility for dental care. The sampling scheme is suspended due to the coronary apathy. The government has increased research efforts through a ten-year research, innovation and development strategy for oral health, and we have strengthened the regional odontological centres of excellence. A national network group follows up the research strategy and reports show that it has already led to increased publication and external research funding. I would also like to carry out an external evaluation of the centres of excellence, but I await other studies relating to the centres. The government has actively supported the development of a psychological and dental service in the county’s dental services for those who have suffered torture or abuse and for those who are seriously afraid of dental treatment. This has been an important initiative, which has reached many people with some considerable needs and under-use of dental services. The scheme has been strengthened from $12 million. SEK in 2013 to 100 million. NOK now in 2021. I am aware that there are long waiting times and await the ongoing evaluation. I would also like to mention that the directorate has been assigned to launch a pre-project for the collection and processing of dental data in the Municipal Patient and User Register, KPR. The mission also includes the inclusion of the private dental sector. Dental data available in the CPR will provide central and municipal authorities with a basis for planning, management, quality improvement, financing and evaluation of municipal health and care services. The data should also be used for analysis and research and will provide a completely different overview of dental health than we have today. This work must also be seen in the context of the technical development of the Consumer Council’s price portal wåkkostentannlegen.no. The government has strengthened the portal by 5 million. NOK 2021. Today, many different proposals have been put forward with different approaches, different speeds of implementation and different levels. Like other areas of society, dental challenges are important. However, I would like to stress that all changes and extensions involve the need for thorough investigations into which the directorate and the trade union community should participate. An example is the review of the housing orthopaedic social welfare scheme. As you know, more trials are already in progress in addition to the TOO offer. These are tests on dental care in hospitals and the use of private dental care providers for users of care services that have rights to dental care. Furthermore, I have entrusted the Health Directorate with the task of investigating specific social welfare schemes on the grounds of public security. I believe that the further development of dental care and the gradual extension of protective systems should be done on the basis of criteria and principles for prioritisation of the publicly funded dental care. I have announced that in a short time we will present a big message on the follow-up of the Blankholm Committee on principles of priority in the municipal health and care services and for publicly funded dental services, the follow-up of NOU 2018: 16. This message will be important for priorities in dental care and for the further development of the dental field in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e727	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e732	The Minister of Health started by reminding me of the government's efforts in the dental field since 2013. Perhaps I would have chosen to ignore it in silence if I had been the Minister of Health, for the government has not delivered so much. One thing they have not delivered on is a decision here in this 2018 Chamber to strengthen Norwegian dental health, where they were just asked to improve the reimbursement system, where they were just asked to ensure that people, regardless of their finances, should receive the necessary dental treatment. The government has not yet delivered anything on this request decision. What's the reason for that, and when can we expect the government to pay for it?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e739	There is absolutely no reason to ignore in silence the efforts made by the government on dental health in the last seven years – on the contrary. We see that as part of the changes we've made, more and more of their expenditure on dental care is being covered by public health. It is positive and in line with what is also government policy. Now we're working on our own big message, which is also important, precisely because we should also establish some priority criteria for the further development of the dental field. It is important for all batches concerned with strengthening the dental field to ensure that larger parts of the population with high dental costs or diseases are better protected. Then it is important to have some good criteria to give priority to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e746	Unfortunately, it is not that more and more people are getting covered in dental health. Among other things, this government has cut 100 million. NOK in the case of support for dental regulation. You didn't spend that money strengthening the bets for those who need the most, so 100 pst. reimbursement is not 100 pst. and 70 pst. reimbursement is not 70 pst. for those with the greatest needs. On the contrary, we have experienced that in much of this period the rates have been sub-regulated. One of the measures identified by the Labour Party in this regard is the desire for a price cap on this type of dental services partly financed by the public. In 2018, the High Health Policy Spokesman, Stensland, spoke on a case by the NRK on dental regulation as follows: ‘We need a clean-up, and I believe that an agreement between the dental association and the state must be in place in order to have the prices regulated.’ Why is it, however, that the Minister of Health and Government opposes our proposals and opposes the better regulation of these dental services for which public health is involved and contributes to the financing of?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e758	As I said in my post, it is wise that proposals and measures are seen in a wider context. That's also what I said in my post that the government is working on. Taking a single instrument and implementing it in this sector can have unintended consequences for both the population and those providing dental services.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e763	Yes, there is then a question of whether this was cut off by the government in terms of dental regulation, was seen in a larger context. Another area where you can wonder about whether the government saw it in a larger context was when you cut into a slightly different private system, i.e. with private dentists, and introduced a TOO system for people who have been tortured or abused, or have a strong fear of dental treatment. There we now see that after the government and the Progress Party set up that arrangement, there are several years of waiting, and under the corona it has gone from bad to worse. These are people who are often in a vulnerable situation in life, and who then in many ways are being fooled. Does the government believe that the way the TOO scheme was implemented has been successful? And if not – we see it is an evaluation going on – what can we expect the Minister of Health to do to improve the shortcomings we see in the TOO today?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e773	This patient group now receives a better offer by strengthening the scheme year after year. It is not the same offer that these people had previously received from private specialists. Now they get a multidisciplinary offer with, among other things, psychological and other competences to help them with either the trauma they experience in the past or dental phobia that prevents them from getting dental help. It's something quite different than the scheme that was before. The reason that there are long waiting times is lack of capacity, and that is also why we have strengthened the capacity in this area, but it also shows the great understated need it was in this area under the old scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e778	There's a debate about a dental reform today, but I'm also busy with those who already have dishes in their present system, because that's actually a good thing. I am thinking in particular of the elderly, who are entitled to free dental care if they receive home care or are admitted to an institution. We know that far from everyone, they have the right to do so. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the county actually does the duty they have to provide these patients with regular services in the public dentistry? What will the Government do to make this a reality and a right that is being fulfilled?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e785	There are many who have looked for different solutions to ensure it. Now, in the budget negotiations last year, the Progress Party was able to make an impact on a probationary system to be implemented now in Agder and in the Week. It's going to be very exciting to see the results. The representative also knows well from previous debates that my assessment of one of the main reasons for this happening is that the Stortinget has wisely placed dental services at the county council — which is not responsible for any other health services, and at a good distance from those responsible for the other care services that this group has. It is a choice of organisation I am absolutely convinced that means that many people in Norway do not have the rights they have. Unfortunately, the government did not get through to our reform, which would probably have cleared up the fundamental problem one is facing in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e792	It is now possible for the county to provide further education throughout the country. In particular, it is due to the fact that the county will not be able to take this responsibility, and that there will be better governance if it becomes a municipal responsibility, when the professional community and the Dental Association warn against it, because the professional community will be able to be confused. Now it's like the Council of State said he doesn't have multiples for such a reform. It's been a couple of years since he found out this isn't going through. Then again, my question: does the Council of State do nothing to ensure these patients a better follow-up? It could have been thought that one could have strengthened the economy of the county councils, so that at least it wasn't what it said when one might have to cut in dental clinics, and that one doesn't have any more probing activity in the dental field.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e799	The economy of the counties and municipalities is strengthened, but that does not necessarily mean that the county politicians give priority to dental care for it. It's not like we're doing nothing. We want to try out what is the model we did not get through to, but it has been exposed because of the pandemic. Then we're also going to start a test with another model based on the consensus we have with the Progress Party. Here, a different model has to be tried to compensate for the fact that there is no majority to do what is most natural: to give responsibility for this part of healthcare where one is responsible for the rest of the body. Very many of the posts here from the pulpit are about that the mouth is a natural part of the body, the teeth are part of the body. If you're very concerned about your teeth as a part of your body, it's very strange that you have placed responsibility for it in the county council, while the rest of your body is the municipality's responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e808	We need to talk about torture and assault. This arrangement that is now unworthy. Now there are 208 weeks waiting list for the first input call in More and Romesdal. TOO's missing 20 million. in 2020. They've found 4 million. SEK from 2019 but missing 16 million. kr. Then I have a very short and concise question for Bent Höie: Will the government – in cooperation with SV, the Advance Party or others – propose 16 million. kr to the revised national budget for the assistance of these persons?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e813	The Government and the Advance Party have regularly strengthened this arrangement. Much of this has been strengthened in most of the budgetary negotiations we have had. We'll keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e818	I did not get an answer. I asked very clearly: will the government – and the Advance Party or other parties on the Stortinget – put in 16 million. Are these patients receiving the help they will receive in the revised national budget? But I also have another question. The government has cut the taxes a lot, but they've also cut $9 billion. kr to the richest in the country. I do not understand why the Minister for Health has prioritised tax cuts for the richest rather than dental reform, because the dental reform will cost approximately. 9 B.C.E. kr in the ownership stake we have today. Why is the government and the health minister more too tax cut for the rich than they are for a dental reform in order for everyone to get the help they need?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e825	On the first question the representative raises, I think he knows the answer himself. The right has not intended to depart from the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party and to enter into budgetary settlements with the SV in the revised national budget. So that question I perceive that the representative knows the answer to himself very well. So there's no one here in this room who has any other money to spend than the money that's being created in the Norwegian community. The right and the government have a policy that contributes to the creation of both jobs and values in this society, which enables us to strengthen well-being. It is also one of the reasons why this government has been able to spend the large amount of money just to strengthen well-being, to strengthen the local government's economy, to strengthen health care, to implement important welfare schemes where we are just raising those who have the greatest needs in society. But with SV's policies, it would have been less valuable to distribute, and it would also have gone beyond the well-being of most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e832	Studies show that people with low incomes have significantly worse dental health than those with better advice. Unemployment, disability and students are above average among those with an unmet need for treatment. Before the pandemic, the figures showed that one in three postpones dental visits for financial reasons. We can believe and assume that there are more people who can't afford it now. DNB writes on the Internet that consumer loans are expensive, but a DNB consumer economist says that they understand that someone needs to borrow to afford unforeseen expenses, such as large dental bills. It is a huge declaration of failure for the welfare state. Does the Council of State mean that someone has to take up consumer loans to go to a dentist, or does he support a dental reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e839	One should look at the situation with the Norwegian dental health. Norwegian dental health is quite good, for example. Compared to countries that have a different public funding for dental health from what we have in Norway. If you look at the Norwegian healthcare system and ask yourself, where is there a need between 5 billion? kr and 9 brd. Do you really want to delete this item? Where are the major health challenges in the population? Then the answer won't be that the right thing to do is to spend so much on that part of the health of the population that it's doing pretty well, compared to other areas. If you're in charge of health care and you're in charge of health care budgets, I think you need to take over and ask the question, when you have extra money to spend, where you get the most health in the population to spend that money, and where the biggest challenges are. When I get more money to spend on health, I want to spend it on mental health and alcohol, because that's where Norway is based on comparable countries in terms of the health status of the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e847	With that, the line change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e854	I want to challenge those who have it in their throats -- a little like their teeth. The Working Party, the Advance Party and the Centre have different decisions and opinions that they are to treat the teeth as the rest of the body. The Christian People's Party has decided that they will investigate it. What I'm asking is, why don't those parties vote for it today? They owe at least the voters an answer, and I hope they will respond properly to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e859	I'm glad Red shares our impatience in one of the big holes in our welfare state, precisely dental. But it's a problem with the good news that Aydar comes with today, that it's just voting for their proposal, and we've solved all dental problems. The bad news is, unfortunately, that there will not be 10-12 annual extra billions from this landfill because we are voting in favour of the Red's proposal. And then there's an even worse news, and that's that people who really need a reinforced effort in this field, once again, will be able to feel that they're being fooled. I totally agree, people are tired of just talking. But it's not that if we just decide this today, it's solved. And if Aydar and Red have read the proposals that are in the vote, that is, 21 minority proposals from different parties, she will have seen that, among other things. The working party is in the midst of a lot of proposals that will realistically take us further in the right direction for increased efforts in the dental field. But if we don't first manage to scratch before we go, before we run, it often goes wrong. A little bit like that, too, in the dental field. There we've had eight years with a right-wing government that's had very, very weak attention to this particular challenge. We have to tackle the biggest challenges first, and if we promise gold and green forests tomorrow, then it's probably a nice election vow from Red. But unfortunately, we're going to disappoint some of them who most need us to have a serious plan for how to lift the teeth. Believe me, I really wish we'd come a lot further in this field, because I think everyone knows people who really feel how painful it is to not afford necessary treatment. Governments are talking about raising mental health. Yes, Councillor: If you lift dental health, you really also lift mental health. I know people with serious diagnosis, cancer diagnosis, who also have dental problems, and that's perhaps what actually breaks them: that they no longer have the power to meet people at the store with a smile, because they experience such a big stigma around this. So we need to raise the field, I fully support it, but we also need a realistic plan for how we can actually implement it. And then I also want to challenge Red that it's about creating and sharing. We're going to be able to use 10-12 billion. kr extra on dental health, we also need to have a policy where we have created those values in advance, where we have created a business that will create values that we are able to distribute more fairly than what today's government is doing. Because it doesn't keep good and beautiful promises if we don't also have muscles to carry them out.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e872	Let me first say that I fully agree with the representative of Morland that mental health and dental health belong together and must be seen in the context. So to the representative from the Red's invitation to the Christian People's Party, which is a government party, to support a proposal that has direct budgetary implications. I hope the Red's representative is not serious in his invitation and believe that the Christian People's Party will go out of agreement with our two government parties and act on its own. It's quite right when the representative from Red refers to the Christian People's Party's new party program, because there we say that we want to investigate the possibility of introducing abstinence to the dentist, in the same way as on medical visits. But this is a policy on which we go to elections and which may have consequences for the next enlargement period. We are firmly committed to the consensus that is now in the government, but I hope these proposals we have discussed and debated can lead to a greater offensive to dental health in the next period, when new health policies are to be developed. I think many parties have actually kept posts as obligations, but that also raises, considering that we should be able to do so. In the end, I just want to repeat: I fully agree with the representative of Morland – mental health and dental health belong together.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e883	The representative Seher Aydar has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e888	Nothing happens by itself, we know that. But the only thing we're sure of is that if the Workers' Party, the Advance Party, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party vote down Red's proposal to work with a clear goal of free dental health – not overnight, but long-term in a serious and sound way, with necessary investigations and funding – it will at least not be a dental reform. Red's proposal is not that this should happen tomorrow. We've said it's going to be a phase-in of dental care, and that's what we're asking if the parties want to support. I would like to thank you for the debate and hope that we can go a step further. We are going to support the minority proposals mentioned by the Labour Party from the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e895	I'm proud that so many people will talk about dentistry, it hasn't happened so often at Stortinget. I am also proud that more will vote in favour of more proposals. SV was very alone a few years ago. Now Red, who has the same policy, is at Stortinget. The Labour Party and the Centre have moved and have other concrete proposals. That's good, because I hope and think we'll win the election and get a new government. SV wants a red-green government, not a center government. Then we have the resources to finally strengthen and get a whole dental reform, so that everyone can get the help they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e902	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 2 and No 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e919	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to four lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e926	The Committee examines a proposal from the Central Party on antibiotic resistance, and I am proud to be the case rapporteur for this important matter. I thank the Cooperation Committee. The whole committee believes that antibiotic resistance is the health care climate crisis. The Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness shows that antibiotic-resistant bacteria are among the most likely crisis scenarios that can affect Norway. The red-green parties have tabled ten proposals. The SV and the Central Party have promoted two more, and the government parties have promoted a loose proposal in the case. It seems that there will not be a majority for the proposals in the vote, and then the right parties can tell why they will not support any of these proposals in the vote. SV believes that antibiotic resistance should overshadow everything we do in health policy. Every year 700000 people die as a result of antibiotic resistance. Projections show that worldwide, ten million people will die annually from antibiotic resistant bacteria in 2050. Antibiotics are the basic plank of the health care system. Without the antibiotics that work, a lot of the health care system would disappear. It is essential for almost all operations, from cancer treatment to cesarean section. The most important thing Norway can do is to use less antibiotics and, in particular, less broad-spectrum antibiotics. The health service in Norway has distributed significantly more antibiotics than Sweden and up to 30 pst. more than the Netherlands. We have a lot to do! Antibiotics are almost like carpet bombing the body. It kills the bad bacteria, but also the nice bacteria. Bacteria only take the bad bacteria. New research shows that bacteria that become immune to antibiotics are more open to bacteriophages. An attack on two fronts could be the rescue we need. It is sad that only SV believes and writes that we should give priority to research on bacterio disciplines. This matter should be important to everyone, but to me it is personal. I live because antibiotics worked when I was sick. I hope that after the election the Health Committee will do more to combat antibiotic resistance than the Committee we now have. SV promotes all the proposals we are making, and we support the loose proposals made by the government parties in the matter. I would also ask the other parties to support these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e943	The representative Nicholas Wilkinson has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e948	Antibiotic resistance can be a major health crisis than corona, because there is no vaccine or immunity against resistant bacteria. If the antibiotic stops working, normal infections will be much harder to treat. Resistant bacteria are on the march. It was estimated that the number of deaths could increase up to 10 million a year by 2050, according to the major global report ‘The Review on Antimicrobial Resistance’ of 2014, in which world’s leading economists looked at this threat in a global perspective. Those of us who were on the Health and Care Committee in the previous period, when we were able to travel, had the joy of meeting the initiator of the report, who still goes only under the name ‘The Review’, Lord Jim O’Neill, in London in 2016. I think the president was there, too. His clear recommendation was an obliging agreement, a convention, similar to the one the world has created in the climate. That's what it takes. Antibiotic resistance is a global problem that needs to be solved with global muscles, because the consequences will affect us all. Antibiotics mean that today we don't have to fear the lives of our children if anyone in the nursery gets pneumonia. We can put ourselves on an operating table for Caesarean cuts, knee operations or heart surgery without expecting it to lead to a life-threatening infection. Some cancer treatments will also not be available without access to antibiotics. When one of our most important drugs is in danger, we have to respond. There is an alarming need for new types of antibiotics, as they we have, are on the way to losing the fight against resistance. But new antibiotics have not come into the market in 30 years, and one of the main reasons is that no one makes money to develop them. The government should take action to ensure that Norway, through partnerships with other countries, private and public actors, takes international leadership, as well as everything we obviously have to do in our own healthcare, and what we need to take care of in our own agricultural and food production. I would like to signal that we will support loose proposal No. 14, from the Centre Party, on measures to access penicillin child formulations, which are a serious deficiency. Then I would also like to signal subsidized support for loose proposal No. 13, from the government parties, if our own proposal No. 1 goes down.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e961	I'm more concerned about antibiotic resistance than about the coronary epidemic about the danger it poses to global health. We've been very good for the last year to fight the Corona globally. I also believe that the fight against antibiotic resistance is global, and it also appears that there is agreement on it in the Chamber. Norway has had a good development and this good development has accelerated in the last year through good disease prevention measures. The use of antibiotics in Norway goes down, and we are in a special position because we still have narrow-spectrum antibiotics, which benefit from some of the infections we are exposed to. But this is fucked up. It's particularly fragile when we now know that the world might open up a little bit, and the travel business will get up. We know that tourism is one of the drivers for bacteria crossing borders. A number of proposals have been made in this case. We strongly support none of them, but I am promoting an alternative proposal, proposal No. 13, to which the Workers' Party is now signaling subsidiary support, which is moving towards the inclusion of antibiotic resistance in a health preparedness treaty under the auspices of the WHO. The whole problem with antibiotics is that very few develop it, and if you develop it, it risks not working when it reaches the market. The risk is too great. That's why I think we need to look at alternative ways of pricing antibiotics. One has to enter the risk relief and in addition one has to include the emergency tank. It'll be a little bit like defense stuff. This is defense against microbes, and in defense against microbes, we must also be willing to spend money on things that are not to be used. I'm very happy that we agree that this is going to work internationally. With regard to the other measures, much of it is good and much is going on. The proposal from the Central Party, which now came as a loose proposal, is a good proposal as it stands, but this is some of what we want to solve through the cooperation that is already established, among other things. with the Danish authorities. I would like to thank – we have come so far in the session that we can thank each other a little – the Health Committee for a common commitment to antibiotic resistance, a common understanding of the problem, and that together we have managed to press on in this matter. That we have a healthcare service that takes this seriously, we also see in the prescription practice. Less antibiotics are used than before – the same in agriculture, the same in aquaculture. The consumption of antibiotics is declining. Then it is only a matter of getting full pressure on vaccination programmes and being optimistic about bacteriodisc production. In fact, I think that we can get strengthened out of this matter, but then it must also act globally.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e976	The representative of Sveinung Stensland has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e981	Antimicrobial resistance is a global threat to the health and well-being of both animals and humans. The Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness Analysis of the Crisis Scenario from 2019 shows that in addition to pandemics and drug shortages, disease outbreaks with antibiotic-resistant bacteria are among the most likely crisis scenarios that can affect Norway. In March of this year, the Institute of Public Health presented a new report on antibiotic resistance, and it is the recommendation in this report that this proposal by the Central Party is based on. If a proposal is put down here, one is in line with the recommendations of the Institute of Public Health. Antibiotics are a common resource that must be preserved, managed and developed jointly. It must be through international cooperation, where a global, but local, thinker is acting. Norway should take a leading role internationally and be a driver of international commitments, such as a global resource conservation agreement, a global antibiotic convention on antibiotics. This is proposed by the Centre Party in 2016, but the proposal falls. Now let's do it again. There are no multiples in your configuration. On the right, a slightly more moderate proposal is now making, which we're going to support subsidiaryly so that something at least gets more. In this work, it is also important to address today’s challenge of the death of more people due to lack of antibiotics than to antibiotic-resistant bacteria. International work must be based on Norway’s contribution to the availability of both essential and vital drugs to countries that currently have a clear under-use of antibiotics. The same applies to vaccines, which can reduce the need for antibiotics. National work on antibiotics must also be continued and stepped up. Funding and research must be ensured. We propose, as we have done before, that a specific class of antibiotics should be introduced. We propose better information, and we suggest that school students should be given better training in the use of antibiotics, but also dangerous aspects. We propose that the monitoring of Lige's prescription should be improved with a diagnostic code on white prescription. We also suggest that antibiotics should not be printed without consulting commercial disposables. We have a loose proposal on the use of antibiotics in children, which reads: ‘The government asks the government to propose new pharmaceutical policy measures to ensure Norwegian access to penicillin child formulations, in order to avoid children being prescribed broad spectrum antibiotics when not needed.’ With that, I'll take up the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e999	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1004	The reduced use of antibiotics shows that we have good control over the consumption of antibiotics in Norway. Norway is in a very good position compared to other countries in terms of the spread of resistant bacteria. We have managed to keep the proportion of resistant yellow staphylococci very low in both hospitals and primary health services. We have succeeded in avoiding MRSA having established itself in Norwegian pigs, for example. has happened in some of our neighbouring countries. From 2022 we will also have a new legislation on medicines for animals for example. to limit the use of antibiotics even more. The government has adopted the national strategy against antibiotic resistance. The objectives of the Action Plans have been decided to expire in 2021. In addition, the government has decided to revise the strategy in cross-sectoral cooperation to highlight the issue of health, animal health, food production and the global perspective. We have action plans that are actively used in healthcare. The action plan against antibiotic resistance in healthcare specifies 20 measures aimed at different parts of the service and the general population. The Health Directorate prepares guidance for the use of antibiotics in healthcare, including community immediate relief units. In addition, the government has strengthened the focus on research, drug preparedness and communication to the population on antibiotic use. In order to ensure access to older antibiotics, we have commissioned the Health Directorate to carry out an opportunity study to look at the possibilities for/to produce narrow-spectrum antibiotics in Norway by the end of 2021. We also provide funds for several programmes in the Research Council that can finance research related to antibiotic resistance. The government strengthens health preparedness through the development of new diagnostic tools, new antibiotics and alternative treatment strategies — as well as improving the security of supply of critical medicinal products. The systematic work of the government against antibiotic resistance has produced good results in the health sector, in agriculture and in the farming industry — together with an important boost for the environment and for public health. I am pleased that there is broad political support for cross-sectoral efforts to achieve the objectives of this important area, both nationally and internationally. Norway has contributed internationally to raising antibiotic resistance as a global theme by taking initiatives, together with some other colleagues in the World Health Organisation, to raise antibiotic resistance as a separate theme at the UN Main Assembly in New York. There, for the first time, heads of state from all over the world had to take a stand and discuss this as a common global problem. As a result, the major UN organisations involved in this field – the World Health Organisation, the World Organisation for Animal Health and the United Nations Environment Programme – have a common, coordinated strategy to work against antibiotic resistance globally.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1017	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1023	There has been a high level of involvement in the Storting and among all parties in the Health and Care Committee, both during this period and in the previous one, in order to take stronger international initiatives and seek to reach agreements at the same level as the world has done for, among other things. climate noise. Today, we also have a proposal from the government parties that shows the same kind of impatience, and the Council of State also presented its own initiative. Does the Council of State think that he has come far enough on his guard? Is he satisfied with international cooperation? Does he see the need to get any further – and why have you not come any further?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1030	Yes, at least I'm very pleased with both my efforts and the government's efforts in this area, because this was an area that had very little attention when I took over as Minister of Health, and this has been one of my most important priority areas internationally in the work as Minister of Health over the last eight years. As I said, through close cooperation with other colleagues in the World Health Organisation, I have contributed to raising antibiotic resistance as a global issue, not only for health ministers, but also for heads of state. This has resulted in concrete work, a joint coordinated work between various UN organisations working against antibiotic resistance. Norway has also developed our first cross-sectoral approach during that period. We have several action plans, both against antibiotic resistance in healthcare and to reduce infection. But if the representative asks me if I think we've come far enough internationally, unfortunately, the obvious answer to that is no. That's why it's so important for this government to continue our strong commitment in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1037	I hear that the Council of State is very satisfied with its own efforts because this problem was not addressed enough almost ten years ago. I think that's a little weird. But I want to focus on what is actually also happening to concrete innovations. We also have environments in Norway that research more on the development of new antibiotics against resistant bacteria. We have research groups in Norway working on better treatment of sepsis, which has found promising, good effects in mice using viruses to kill bacteria. There is a lot of research going on here, and what is common to several of these research groups is that they are impatient and want a clearer commitment to this field of research in Norway. So why hasn't the government prioritised a stronger effort for infectious diseases, which, after all, affect a lot of people, and which at all times make up a large number of our hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1042	I am not satisfied with my own efforts because it was bad until I took over. I am satisfied with my own efforts for what I have done in the years after, because it has been crucial not only in Norway but also internationally. I am proud of that, and I am going to be proud of that for a long time to come, because the efforts that Norway has made in this area have been of great importance – both that we have raised this issue internationally, and that we have also shown results nationally, which also inspire many other countries. It is of great importance — not least what we have done in the fishing industry, which is an inspiration for countries where agriculture is a major part of the business. Then I'm familiar with the research projects that the representative here brings up. Both I and the Prime Minister are engaged in those research projects, and we're going to work on making sure that there's a research that gets the opportunity to go even further in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1049	I believe that the Council of State is very proud of everything he has done in this field. However, in one area he has received criticism, and it is from the Swedish Children’s Association and the National Competence Network for Medicinal Products for Children, which calls for an increase in the willingness of health authorities to give priority to the availability of antibiotics for children. The situation is that children are now forced to use broader types of antibiotics than necessary because the child formulations are not available on the Norwegian market. They call for political will to go in and see what Norway can do to go with research, technology and production, and in Nordic cooperation to secure antibiotic solutions tailored to children. Now I heard from the pulpit that this proposal was rejected by the government party, which I think is unfortunate. But what will the Council of State do now, because this is a very important thing that already creates major problems in the services.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1056	Yes, the availability of narrow-spectrum antibiotics in general, but also for children, is a major problem. That is why we have taken concrete initiatives in this area of production in Norway, as I also said in my speech. It was one of the first issues in which we commissioned the Health Directorate to develop the possibility of cooperation with private people for the production of medicines in Norway. It was just the production of narrow-spectrum antibiotics that was prioritised as the first theme. There has now been an opportunity study and the next phase of that work is under way. Norway has established cooperation with Denmark on the purchase of medicinal products, and this is the most concrete example in Europe of two countries joining forces to purchase medicinal products. In this context, narrow-spectrum antibiotics are prioritised as an area where we contract together to ensure access to narrow-spectrum antibiotics that are otherwise difficult to access.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1063	I did not hear the answer from the Minister of Health on Toppe's question. It was about children and penicillin for children. It's very important, because we know that antibiotic resistance is coming. It's a crisis we know is coming. Then it is very important that children can get penicillin that does not increase antibiotic resistance so much. I have another question too. We know that the Norwegian market is small. There are also problems in Denmark, Sweden, Iceland and Finland. According to EU rules, there must be Norwegian text on the medicines we buy. Is it possible to try to cooperate with the EU in order to have a Nordic market? We have it, for example. for furnaces. It is always in Finnish or Swedish or Danish. Then the Nordics become a bigger market, and it can be easier to get baby medicine.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1070	Yes, I understand from the question that the representative did not hear my answer to Toppe's question, because I was concerned that Norway and Denmark are among the few countries in Europe that have established the type of cooperation in which we buy medicines together. But we would like to have the other Nordic countries with us to go even further here. We also cooperate with the other Nordic countries on many of the processes, but in the case of specific procurement agreements, Denmark has been able to do so. This is because Norway and Denmark have relatively similar purchasing systems. We have our Hospital Purchase, they have a similar organization in Denmark. In Sweden, this is purchased by each country, or county, and it makes it much more complicated. We also have good cooperation with Iceland, which uses our purchasing systems in several ways. So this is something we're doing, and then we've prioritised just what the representatives Wilkinson and Toppe asked about, narrow-spectrum antibiotics, which are also relevant for children.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1075	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1082	Then I can answer the Minister of Health here, because we asked about medicines for children, and it didn't answer the Minister of Health. It is very good that there is a majority for international cooperation, but it is very sad that the right parties will not support concrete proposals on what we can do in Norway. Norway is better than many other countries, but not good enough. As I said, for example, Sweden and the Netherlands used much less antibiotics than Norway. I would also like to thank the Committee for all its cooperation over the years. The theme of antibiotic resistance is personal, as I said. I got two broad-spectrum antibiotics. One of them didn't work, so I'm very lucky that the other worked. It was also another big problem, and it's the diagnostic system. I got good help – but very late. If I had been diagnosed early enough, I would never have had aphasia and strokes. And there are many who die because of it. We need better diagnostic systems, as SV has suggested. I cannot propose it now because we have proposed it earlier this year. We also have another important input to the government, and it's about cold sepsis. There are many who get it, like me, and then it's hard to figure out that a person has sepsis, because usually you look for fever. There are a lot of people who die of sepsis in Norway, and I hope the government is looking at this problem. After the illness, I have learned that rehabilitation in Norway is not good. The report has slaughtered rehabilitation in Norway, and I hope that the Stortinget after the election will work for better rehabilitation. SV has made several suggestions on this. We didn't get a majority for that. But I sincerely hope that those who get an injury can get a good life back, and then we need good help. Thank you very much for all the cooperation in the Health Committee. It's been fun, and a little annoying, because it's a little bit difficult for SV to get a majority for all of these things, but after the election, I hope we get a red-green government, not a center government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1099	I will start by joining the representative Wilkinson when he expresses the wish that a large number of people had supported several of these important proposals in the vote. Committing to a work on a global convention or similar is what the world needs to take seriously the antibiotic resistance challenge, and Norway is in a position where we can take leadership, which is also much discussed in the vote. I am also among those who talk about antibiotic resistance to the boring, perhaps primarily about how we use antibiotics in animal husbandry – in Norway, but especially in the rest of the world – and the responsibility we have to actually be more aware of what it involves. In our animal production, we have the lowest antibiotic use in Europe. At the same time, we often hear about cases where salmonella is detected in imported meat, etc. In addition, there is a risk that, through increased imports of food products, resistant bacteria are at risk of being purchased. I think there's a risk that, in the context of what goes on in human health in this setting, is something we have to take much more seriously. There is also talk of wanting to have greater awareness and challenging Helfo to have a system where people in Norway who receive healthcare, perhaps especially dental services, are caught abroad. These are things that can be difficult to get out of with good information, so it's important to find the right channels. Specifically on animal health, I am pleased that the Central Party at its national meeting decided that we want to achieve an even stronger cooperation between the Institute for Public Health, the Veterinary Institute, the Food Authority and local health services. We need it to talk about just this with one health, which we're also very concerned about. Then I have a final question for the government parties and the health minister about the work to ban the use of antibiotics in particular turkey production, but also livestock production. We know that it is still allowed in Norway, although it has been largely discontinued. We have preparations like monensin and others, which pose a great risk in the long run to develop resistance in the Norwegian population, so I hope that's something you can tackle.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1113	Children need antibiotics that they can swallow. Important antibiotics recommended for Norwegian children are currently either not available or they taste so bad that it is completely impossible to get the child to take them. This means that anything is usually forced to print more broad-spectrum antibiotics that are either present in a child’s formula or tastes good. So we know that small kids are extra exposed to disruptions in antibiotic use. Therefore, the proper use of antibiotics in children should be a high priority task for the authorities to contribute to. It is shown here that a state-owned production of small antibiotics has now been completed, without an emphasis on how to adapt to children. The Council of State should say that, of course, one should take a look at the current situation, including how to ensure child-reforms of standard penicillin and its production in Norway. The problem is that today production does not pay off. Norway is a small market, and small children, who are the most vulnerable, are not lucrative enough in this system. Then, both by the representative of Sveinung Stensland and by the Council of State, I get an idea that this is taking place – this work is already under way, and one refers to the cooperation with the Danish people. But then one has to talk to the professional community. One has to talk to the kids who know this about the body every day, and who, on the contrary, criticises the authorities for not doing enough about this field. Among other things, it said: a chronicle in Today’s Medicine as late as May 18th this year entitled ‘The youngest need child-friendly antibiotics’. I'm very disappointed that this proposal doesn't get multiple numbers with the government party today, which says they're dedicated to strengthening the antibiotic work in Norway. I did not think the Council of State's response was credible. I hope you can have a conversation after this debate and see what the government and authorities can do, and talk to the trade union community, because this is actually a big problem, which is now being trivialized by the government majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1124	The proposal of the Centre Party relates to a strengthened national and international commitment to the spread of antibiotic resistant bacteria. We are so lucky that we have a good health care system in Norway, and we also have a very good veterinary system. It makes us have a special opportunity to be a model. Councils of State referred to agriculture. He meant surely agriculture, because it's in agriculture a producer of food. In international agriculture, the use of antibiotics is widespread, not only to cure disease after diagnosis, but also for so-called prophylactic use, i.e. prevention, where one provides antibiotics in the food of the animals. We have clear legislation in Norway that says that antibiotics are not allowed to be used in food for animals. Nevertheless, it is a fact that we have two patented antibiotics. The names are narasin and monensin and may be used in the production of chicken and turkey respectively. Narasin is now out of use – not because it is illegal, but because the industry and consumers have said that someone does not want it like that. Monensin for turkey is now being phased out, and we sincerely hope that it can happen in the current year. The situation we are now in is that if the government had been consistent and taken this seriously, one would have said that what is patent-approved as antibiotics cannot be used prophylactically in Norwegian agriculture, but it has not been willful to date. This is probably due to the fact that there are EEA rules that override Norwegian will. I hope that a new government will follow Norwegian law and ban these two antibiotics, so that there will be no competitive advantage for those who want to cheat. Finally, I would like to say that antibiotic use should also be labelled on the food, so that it is labelled for the imported products produced by the prophylactic use of antibiotics. Then people can decide if they want the product, which in many cases is cheaper than what is better, where one has not used antibiotics that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1139	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1156	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to four lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1163	First of all, I would like to thank the proposers for raising this issue to debate, and not least for giving the Council of State the opportunity to provide information on the issue of time-limits, which has been much debated recently. By virtue of the Patient and User Rights Act, patients have a legal right to health care for specialist healthcare within a fixed period of time. It is good and disciplining and ensures that everyone gets the help they need within a reasonable time. Nevertheless, it is a fact that the changes to the patient’s best have had unintended consequences that could compromise the hospitals’ own operations and prevent the building up of their own professional skills, as cutting in the sea sometimes triggers the need for a course conversion. When changes were made to the plan in 2013, a distinction was drawn between the clear and the unclear state. For patients with a clear condition, the legally binding deadline applies, but for unexplained patients the time limit applies. The time limit has been met when the processing or investigation, respectively, has been initiated. The patient has the right to receive treatment from private providers at the public expense. Issues related to this are addressed in the Health Directorate’s report of May 2017 entitled ‘Examining waiting time registration in the specialist healthcare service’, which proposes to simplify the legislation, inter alia. by not distinguishing between the time limit for investigation and the time limit for processing. A subsequent report from the Health Directorate in 2018, ‘Alternative models for the regulation of patient conduct and the recording of waiting times in the specialist healthcare service’, states that the regulation of patient conduct has had some unintended consequences. The report proposes three models for the regulation of patient courses and waiting times. The distinction between time-limits for investigation and time-limit for processing has been difficult to understand and practice. This division has been proposed by the government. It is good that it is private to ensure that patients receive treatment they are entitled to if the public is unable to meet the deadlines. The time-limits regime is a good one for patients and part of the government's goal of providing patients with healthcare. Rights to the initiation of the patient course and then good package sequences may reduce the ‘disappear’ of patients in the transition between the levels of service. The Government Parties and the Advance Party consider that it is most appropriate to make a continuous assessment of the need for changes for the benefit of patients. An overall evaluation will be time-consuming, and the government will therefore give priority to making improvements to the scheme rather than making an evaluation now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1176	The Progress Party is committed to giving patients rights, security, predictability and freedom of choice. If hospitals are unable to provide the services needed by patients, it is a strength and an important supplement that we have private individuals who ensure that patients’ rights are fulfilled. Therefore, the timing mechanism is a good one for patients and a warning to hospitals that they need to build up their capacity. The Progress Party regards the time-limit system as a very important right to provide the patient with safety in order to receive the necessary health care at the right time, and it is therefore not appropriate for us to remove it. Over the last eight years, we have helped to strengthen the rights and increase freedom of choice for all. Over the same years, the opposition has used every opportunity to counteract the same thing. No systems are perfect, so this is a continuous work. The Health Directorate has initiated a review of the Helfo Agreement with private fixed-term suppliers, with the aim of finding improvement points. There is reason to recall that among patients who experience a deadline breach, the majority choose to wait for an hour rather than take advantage of the offer of a private alternative. The fact that the patient himself can make this active choice, rather than go and worry, is important to those involved. We're not so busy with the number that chooses what, but we're concerned with freedom of choice and security. That is why we do not support any proposals in this matter. Then I want to spend the last time thanking me here at Stortinget – for 16 years I have had my work here. I want to send a warm thank you to all the amazing people who work here, and the same to the representatives, especially those with whom I have worked very closely and closely and become very well acquainted. Now I'm so lucky that the president himself is presiding, so I can thank you for the years we were a dream team. And then to Minister of Health Bent Höie: our cooperation in health began many years before he became Minister of Health. It's been great with the list we made that time many years ago, everything we were going to implement. We agreed on 80 pst. of all health policies, and I want to thank you for having been allowed to participate in crossing one by one on that list. It has been an incredible journey to be allowed to join. I would also like to thank the Minister of Health for always taking the phone when I call him – I have tried not to use that privilege too much, so he always answers. I wish happiness to all those who are going to run election campaigns. I'm actually a little relieved that I'm done here – 16 years is enough – but everyone has to keep pace up the next period and finish what we've started. Thank you for me!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1195	I must first express my own thanks to the representative of Kari Kjønaas Kjos. I'm going to miss her and her honest and sincere commitment to many vulnerable groups. So in the case of Finnmark Hospital HF, for the last nine years, has had an expenditure of 74 million. kr as a result of delay in mental health protection. It corresponds to the operation of a medium-sized outpatient clinic. According to both the leadership and the trustees, this has affected Finnmarks Hospital's own ability to build up the supply, and the competence in the subject field has therefore been weakened over time. The hospital director refers to it as a cost spiral that the hospital does not come out of. The case has also revealed that it is the private providers who can define both the content, the scope and the duration of the treatment. The hospital must therefore pay for private suppliers without knowing what treatment is being given, as the hospital has no contact with the breakage providers. In 2016, Dagens Medisin revealed that patients were placed on internal queues that were not found in the public statistics. Today the waiting list is registered when the first contact is established. The amount of delay that occurs today is not part of the public waiting list statistics. The leader of the Norwegian Psychiatric Association has stated that several companies are pulling away from the deadline, either by offering the first hour within the deadline to then offer the next hour much later, or by asking the patient if he wants to wait until one has passed the deadline. The challenges in this regard are not solved by any improvements in the contract work or by acting as the Minister for Health, asking for notice. A number of stakeholders are now asking for an evaluation of the time-limit regime. In 2017, the Health Directorate presented a report on waiting list registration, and in 2018 a report was submitted on ‘Alternative models for regulating patient progression and recording waiting times in the specialist healthcare service’. It is proposed to remove the distinction between the time limit for processing and the time limit for distribution and to propose new longitudinal measurements and indicators. By the end of 2019, there were more than 200,000 patients who had not been invited to an hour before the internal deadline that the hospital itself had seen. That was an increase from 170,000 in spring 2017. In comparison, only 3,900 deadline breaks were registered for first contact with the hospital in February 2021 – that is, much more waiting in the internal queue than in the first hour. The Health Agency proposes three models for the regulation of patient courses and waiting times, and we propose today to sort this out further, and that one come back to Stortinget when such an arrangement is made. I'm taking up all the suggestions the Center Party is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1214	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1219	I would also like to thank the proposers for putting the search light on what is initially important patient rights, but which also shows that one can lose sight of things if one is one-sidedly guided by performance goals. The example of the Finnmark Hospital has been followed up by the Workers' Party with questions to the Council of State, and it shows how things can be carried by farms. The Labour Party supports in this vote the proposal in the proposal for a representative to evaluate the scheme. I also want to commend several editors for doing a thorough and good job and revealing how reality actually is for Norwegian patients. Unfortunately, some of the production of waiting list statistics used by the government and the ministry has been lost. If there's a performance in this, it's sadly the patients who suffer. And if statistics are presented that show too much start-up of health care, it is risky to give a picture that patients are given the opportunity to health care more than that the patient improves their health by receiving healthcare treatment. That is why we support some of the proposals that have been put forward here. Since this is most likely the last post from me in this big time period, I would also like to wish everyone the best of luck, thank you for good cooperation, also good cooperation with the Council of State Bent Höie, who has been on guard for a very demanding time and has shown great endurance. I would also like to thank the former speaker, Kari Køenas Kjos, who has shown an impressive commitment to very many patient groups during all the years she has been a health minister, no, a health politician. It was a mistake. She might have been with another period, so maybe the possibility would have been there. I also want to thank you in particular for the good cooperation with the Progress Party on a new biotechnology law, which the Labour Party is very happy that we got in place last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1232	Since this is probably the last health debate with this committee, I will also take the opportunity to say a thousand thanks for the cooperation in the four years we have behind us. I would particularly like to thank for the cooperation with the Committee this last year, a demanding time, where I feel that we have worked well together to deal with a national crisis. So I would particularly like to thank you for working with those representatives who are not re-elections, and for the job they have done for the country. A special thanks to the representative of Kjenaas Kjos, who is among the people I have worked most on in this area. The government takes the whole patient process seriously. We have put in place a package for cancer, mental health, intoxication and stroke, and we are working on a package process in new areas. We control health regions on longitudinal indicators, such as the proportion of consultations conducted at the agreed time, and how good hospitals are to plan out outpatient activity. In particular, there is a risk of failure between service levels. As a result, special rights are attached to the initiation of the course of patients in the specialist healthcare system, and the government is also particularly concerned about reducing the waiting time for health care start-ups. The requirement of professional safety shall apply irrespective of the location of the patient in the course of the course. The time-limit infringement mechanism is a central patient right. We do not want to remove this right without there are good alternatives that protect the patient's rights in at least the same way. It doesn't seem like we have now. In the consultation note from 2020 on the regulation of patient conduct in the specialist healthcare and waiting time registration, it is proposed that the distinction between time-limit for investigation and time-limit for treatment be abolished. It will take care of proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox In the consultation note, the Ministry further points out that, in the longer term, a more adapted regulatory framework is desirable, which increasingly supports good patient conduct and reduces the administrative burden. At the same time, the individual rights of patients must not be impaired and the quality of health care must be guaranteed in a timely manner. That will require further investigation, and I believe that this will take account of proposal No. 2, that Model C of the Health Directorate's 2018 investigation was further investigated. Proposal No. 1 is to evaluate the time-limit regime of the day. The Health Directorate has already initiated a review of the contract work between Helfo and private breakage suppliers. The background is highlighted by some health businesses and by private suppliers within the time-limits regime. The objective will be to identify any improvement points. An evaluation will take time, and I think it's a better solution to investigate and make any changes on an ongoing basis, to the benefit of the patient.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1249	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1254	The last state council said, was that one would not evaluate, but ensure continuous changes in today's system. Then it is the case that the case of the Finnmark Hospital made it quite clear that the scheme today is such that the private time-limit provider is able to define both the content, the extent and duration of the treatment, at least in the area of mental health protection, and that the hospital has to pay the private supplier without knowing what treatment is being given, since the hospital has no contact with the time-limit provider. There is also a danger that over-treatment of patients may contribute to such a low level of control. My question is why this has not been discovered and done anything before, and whether the Council of State will take action to ensure that at least one has better control of this system as long as one has this deadline.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1261	I believe that the time-limit mechanism is very important for the individual patient, because that is how patients can ensure that they can receive treatment within the time set by a medical assessment and that it is actually an alternative. So it's important to take care of and fence around. But there are always opportunities for improvement in all areas. As I said in my post, the Health Directorate has already initiated a review of the contract between Helfo and the private breakage providers, and I expect that if that comes up with conditions that can improve some of the challenges pointed out by health businesses, the situation that can be improved in the agreements you are now entering into, without one having to start a full evaluation of the scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1267	It was very careful, I thought, when one knows that private health care providers can define both the content, extent and duration of treatment and the risk of overtreatment — without the hospital being able to do anything but pay, and that one then has an evaluation. I demand that the Council of State has a self-reliant willingness to say that he is actually going to arrange this. One can defend the interlocutory system, but this is a very clear example of a weakness in the system that makes it not like one had intention of. So I just want to ask again: can the Council of States be more specific that this particular relationship is actually going to take responsibility for cleaning up, so that one does not risk what they experience, among other things. The Finnish Hospital?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1274	I think that when I'm careful in this area, it's about that I think there may be challenges to today's agreements. But I'm not fundamentally in disagreement with the system and part of the premise for what is the basis of the system, as it sounds like the representative is. Part of the issues that the representative raises and believes are critical, I do not think is critical. It's e.g. in such a way that the content of the treatment must be borne by the person responsible for the treatment. The fact that some people operate healthcare privately and choose to provide treatments or follow-up other than those provided in public hospitals, I consider it a positive part of this scheme and not a critical one, as long as it is – of course – sound. Everyone who operates a healthcare service is subject to a law and order.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1279	Then we only disagree on how one assesses what was revealed about the practice of the time-limiting system at the Finnmark hospital. The Council of State indicates that the other proposals we have made are taken care of with the listening notes that have been sent out. But it is not that a listening note is the final proposal from the government, so I would like to listen here today: Is it that the Council of State now means, quite frankly, that it makes sense to lift the distinction between the deadline for treatment and the deadline for payment – after we have now seen that a great many more were put on internal waiting lists, and that there was a greater queue there than the deadline for treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1286	Yes, that is why we have put the proposal to the hearing, but I think it is also wise that the Stortinget should allow the hearing to take place and that the department should sum up the hearing and make the concrete proposals. In a matter in which the directorate has made a thorough investigation, the government has sent specific proposals at the hearing and the hearing bodies have received their input, it will not, in my opinion, be wise if the Storting concludes in advance until they have received the case for consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1291	The cord shift is over. The speakers who have the floor hereafter shall have a speaking time of three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1298	The issue of time-limits is deeply concerned with the fact that we, as politicians, have to keep what we promise. Since this is the last time, at least during this period, that I am speaking as rapporteur-in-Office of the Health and Welfare Committee, I would like to ask the President to forgive me for linking a couple of occasions to another issue that has to do with health, namely the state of democracy in Norway these days. This is without comparison the country's most important pulpit. It goes without saying that this is where the future of the country is shaped, where Norwegian democracy is practiced daily, where compromises are created, and contradictions are made visible. For a person who believes that it is possible to create a better society through freedom and opportunities for all, through dialogue and democratic processes, it is a dream to have access to this pulpit for these four years – and there is no guarantee that you will return to the harvest. Cooperation is the key to this, and I would therefore like to thank my colleagues in the Committee, all of them, for a good tone, for the willingness for constructive solutions and not least for a good mood. Before I came to this pulpit, I had little idea what a good meeting management, a good committee leader and a capable committee secretary has to say for the operation of the Storting. I had no idea how important a well-developed support apparatus from the Secretariat and the staff of the Stortinge have to say for the exercise of democracy. I know better now. We've been through some tough months at the end of this period, and where the potential for deep conflicts is present. The pandemic has been a special challenge for the Ministry of Health and Welfare and perhaps also for us in the Committee. I mean political Norway, including the municipal sector, has passed the test we've been put on. It says something about it going more than this before Dovre falls. Thank you so much to everyone!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1307	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1324	At the request of the Finance Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, there will be a reply to replies from members of the government, and those who have to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1331	The representativeness has an important role to play in overseeing the Bank of Norway, and they carry out the mission in a thorough, competent and conscientious manner, which has led to improvements in the operation of the Bank of Norway in several stages. Just because the mission is so important, it is good to hear when the chairperson of the hearing expresses the need for the machinery in the form of resources, competence and capacity. Therefore, it is also very good that cooperation with Norway’s Bank is described as good. With regard to the appointment of the Executive Director of NBIM, Norway’s Bank Investment Management, the Representation has followed up the comments made by the Committee in a satisfactory manner. We notice that all the questions the representative has sent to the Norwegian Bank's main board on the occasion of the case have been answered. We also note that the last responses were dealt with at an ordinary meeting this June, and that the representative has agreed to follow-up on compliance with the agreement in line with the assumptions, such as final and irrevocable and without a time limit. We're assuming that the Storting will be briefed when necessary. It is good to be able to read the Presidency’s conclusion that the Governing Council has exercised control and control over the activities of the Bank of Norway in accordance with the Central Bank Act, the regulation on risk management and internal control of the Bank of Norway and the mandate for the management of the State pension fund abroad. It's reassuring. With regard to the four last year supervisory reviews of the Representation, they were also well-founded and well-chosen, and where compliance with anti-laundering and terrorist financing measures was one of them. It seems that the priorities of representation for the years that have been and for the further work that we can read about in the report are well anchored in sound risk and materiality assessments. It is positive that the representation points out equality as a priority for the future and that they will closely follow the Bank's plans for increasing equality and diversity. On behalf of the Committee, we look forward to continued conscientious and thorough work on behalf of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1352	The representative body is doing an important job of supervising the Bank of Norway. When the Central Bank Act says that Norway’s Bank is to perform two key social tasks, which are to be the central bank of the country and to manage the State pension fund abroad, it goes without saying that supervisory work is important. We as elected representatives are totally dependent on getting this information in a good and easy-to-understand way. The information from the representation is important and interesting, not only for us big-time representatives, but also for the media and the rest of the public. Such important information must therefore be easily accessible and relevant. I therefore look forward to the representation continuing with the job of further developing this report. It is positive that the head of the representative body themselves believes that they have the necessary competence, resources and capacity. It promises good for the future. The report of NBIM is positive, highlighting the reversal of the strategy and the intention to expand the Norwegian investment environment in Oslo rather than to recruit more internationally. I hope this will have positive synergies for the entire Norwegian capital management environment and not just in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1361	The size has previously determined that the representation in its supervisory work should focus both on the risk of loss of reputation and on the financial risk if the bank’s activities are not conducted in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. In the setting that we are discussing today, the Centre Party, SV, the Green Party and Red now have a common comment related to this, which I think it is worth saying a few words about in the debate as well. In the view of those parties, it should be a priority area of representation to build up further competences and to strengthen the supervision of tax and transparency and the relationship with tax havens, when looking at precisely reputational risk. We believe that it should be a natural task for the representation to actively ensure that the fund's tax havens are informed and minimised in accordance with the expectations expressed by the fund itself. Here we will also show that the representation itself asks the Governing Council to assess whether the organisation of subsidiaries within unlisted property, among other things. in order to obtain tax advantages, represents a risk to the Bank of Norway, both reputable and otherwise. Here we can show that the oil fund itself has an expectation document for the company, and we believe it is important that the fund operates in line with its own expectations when looking at taxes and transparency. Furthermore, the same parties stress the importance of keeping the management costs of the Fund down and the importance of closely monitoring the representation, in particular with regard to the use of external administrators.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1372	I didn't think I should leave it entirely uncommented that there are so many people who assume a role for representation in the Bank of Norway that it does not actually have, and that it is not assigned by the Stortinget either. I have recorded that the members of the Centre Party and Red – in a minority comment, but not contradicted by the majority – write that ‘it is relevant, particularly in the light of the process of appointing the new Executive Director of NBIM, with some reflections on the role of representation.’ And on the other hand, ‘These members indicate that the representation of the Bank of Norway has a two-part role. Firstly, the representation is one of the leading bodies of the central bank. Secondly, and which became particularly evident in the recruitment process of the new Executive Director, the representation is part of the control function of the Stortinget, and thus the body of the Stortinge central bank. These members will stress that the role of representation is to play both of these roles.’.» This is with respect to notifying constitutional dissatisfaction. The Stortinget does not have its own body in the Bank of Norway. The representative board is an organ of the Bank of Norway. Nor is it an external body of the Stortinget that exercises parliamentary or political control on behalf of the Stortinget. Its supervisory functions and competences are defined exclusively by law. I feel the need to say this since this has not been commented on by the majority, and it seems that this opinion also has some kind of prevalence here in plenary. I believe that it is still unpleasantly undecided whether the representation in the future will respect the division of labour decided by the Storting when the established law of our central bank, with emphasis on independence. In my opinion, the competence of the Governing Council has been expropriated by a supervisory body which has incorrectly borrowed from the Authority of the Grand Duchy in order to play a role in the recruitment process. It is even a task that is explicitly described – even in the law – as being at the head board. It looks like you're going to assume that this is going to work that way. I also think it is paradoxical that, in a public hearing, the representative body, which is supposed to ensure compliance with the central bank law, made accusations against the main board that § 1-6 of the Central Bank Act had been violated. Now it's called, in the annual report for the same period, that everything was fine. Thus, it has not commented on its own misappropriation of the legal status of August 2020, which had to be denied by the Governing Council by a direct letter to the Committee. I do not think it is coverage to say that the representative has fulfilled his task. It leaves unclear about its function, as Stortinget, on a later occasion, must take an active position.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1388	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1405	At the request of the Finance Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, there will be a reply to replies from members of the government, and those who have to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1412	Congratulations! This year it is 25 years since the first deposit in the oil fund and 20 years since the rule of action came to the world. Responsibility in good times has given us muscles when needed, and thanks to these two 20-year-olds, AS Norway comes in debt-free through the crisis. It was a clear Finance Minister from the Right who in his time gave marshalls for the start-up. The black gold, picked up by our everyday heroes in the basement, was to be forever for the good of the community. More than 11,000 billion later – and with a double since 2013 – we can safely conclude that it has been a success. Financial markets are changing, but the trend is clear, and with a return on the reference index it is also appropriate to thank the competent people who manage the values of the oil fund, but of course also in the State pension fund Norway – so thank you. The objective of the oil fund is to achieve the highest possible yield with an acceptable risk. Within this framework, the Fund shall be managed in a responsible manner. Return and accountability are closely linked. Responsibility and an ethical framework are essentially about basic propriety, about being the world's largest state investment fund is acting neatly and respect human rights, but it is also crucial for trust in the fund both in the Norwegian population and the environments in which we operate and invest, and it is important to reduce exposure to financial risks. Many will probably agree that accountability is the best way to ensure a solid return over time. The Ethics Committee said well: Managing the Fund for the purpose of sustainable value creation for present and future generations is itself an ethical obligation. At the same time, some products and some types of behaviour are of such a nature that, for ethical reasons, we should not be invested in such businesses, and it is also an ethical obligation. These two ethical obligations are heavily on our shoulders, and we take that very seriously. That is why we introduced the Ethics Council in its time – with the Right, Christian People's Party and Left Government – and set up the ethical guidelines for the Fund, and that is why, with this year's announcement, we are taking another step in the responsible direction. In this year’s report, we end up with the extraction criterion for cannabis, and we underline the need to put in place an extraction criterion for autonomous weapons. We're working on how climate risk affects the fund's total risk, and what profitable investment opportunities it provides. This is happening at the same time as the oil fund is now expanding its care assessments prior to the investment, so that we both get more profitable and more responsible investments. In last year’s treatment, we proposed to extend the corruption criterion to include other serious financial crimes, which are currently being committed by the government, and in the treatment we clearly state that the guidelines should be understood in such a way that money laundering, tax evasion and organisation are also extensive. We're doing a series of acts that strengthen accountability. Otherwise, I refer to the comments and the clarifications we make for some of the criteria. Nothing more mentioned, nothing forgotten. I want to thank the Committee for good cooperation, and I think it is a very strong strength that we come together on a long-term management of the values of the community. And then I am very sure that our 25-year-old appreciates some responsible advice and guidance on the way forward in life, as we try to give in our position, so that it can serve Norway well in the continuation and as age becomes both more profitable and more responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1433	The rapporteur has well explained the position, where there is broad agreement on the strengthening of ethical guidelines, and was pleased with an unusually solid result last year and agreement on an adjustment to the investment strategy. There is still agreement on the target of the pension fund, the highest return within acceptable risk. The ethical guidelines are strengthened after thorough preparation via the Ethics Committee, wide consultation and now: concrete follow-up. This is a clearer political governance of the Fund, as the Labour Party has called for, and as confirmed by the Minister of Finance at the hearings with the Committee. I'm going to focus on some challenges that are still in the process. First of all, the climate challenges: the Committee supports the work undertaken by the Ministry, which will be reflected in concrete actions in next year’s Communication. It is a process that is useful and that provides us with a solid basis for assessing concrete actions. Some, both inside and outside this hall, want to move forward more quickly and already want to decide that the investment portfolio and the reference index should be in line with the objectives of the Paris Agreement. I'm not sure what this would mean operationally for the fund's investments. It may be possible to achieve a carbon-neutral portfolio by going out of investments with high carbon footprints and into them without, but will the world's climate emissions be lower? The fund now has climate expectations documents, where reporting requirements are raised and how companies adapt to future emission requirements. It should have an effect on the emission pressure of the companies. Companies that do not understand the requirements of the future are at risk of having our savings in them. It's enough to remember the film and camera manufacturer Kodak's fate. I look forward to a good analysis of these issues and, hopefully, good operational proposals in next year’s communication. The second thing I want to comment on is about investment in the occupied area. Following advice from the Ethics Council, the fund has also recently expired from two companies operating in Israeli settlements on the West Bank. The justification lies in the human rights criterion. The companies contribute to an unlawful occupation of international law. Now there is a proposal to change the behavioral criterion to ensure that the SPU withdraws from companies that are ‘linked to an unlawful occupation of international law’ and other violations of international law. So today's behavioral criterion includes unlawful occupation. The challenge lies in the concept of ‘linked’ and the limitation of the Fund’s becoming a foreign policy instrument to combat the occupation, wherever tempting. Therefore, the fund's ethical rules must focus on the activities of companies, not on land or regimes. If the fund is perceived as a foreign policy tool, it becomes vulnerable to political countermeasures. I think there's a broad consensus that we have to avoid. However, there may be good reason why the Ethics Council is reviewing the Fund's investments in such high-risk areas with an increased degree of care for corporate human rights violations, such as: Norwegian People's Aid points out in the hearing of this message. The third thing I would like to comment on is risk-based pre-filtering in countries with differing standards, for which the Committee asked for an assessment in the previous communication. Both the Ethics Council, the Bank of Norway and the Department believe that this would be a poor instrument, including: in the absence of appropriate indices, but in the hearing the NBIM Chief informed that they are adding up to change. While new companies have so far been included in the index, 500-600 companies per year, risk-based pre-filtering of the new companies will now be carried out. I expect this to happen on the basis of the fund's ethical code and general financial risk. I think it's a wise approach, which, together with a more periodic assessment of whether the fund is going to enter new markets, provides better risk management. It also endorses the proposal to reduce the number of companies in which the fund is to be located. It means little to the spread of risks, but reinforces the potential to influence the behaviour of companies through good ownership dialogue. I address the proposals that the Workers' Party is involved in.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1450	The representative Svein Roald Hansen then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1455	The state pension fund abroad has made a good return to Norway and now has a value of 11,000 billion. kr. I think there are few who know how much money this really is, and there are enough few who could imagine this size of the fund when it was first created. Especially through the pandemic, which we've had for over a year, we see the importance of the fund. That we've been able to use oil money to keep the wheels going has been hugely important. Many have been permised, lost their jobs, and many have labored to save their business. Although we're not in the goal, the will in this room to spend oil money has helped enormously. The fund's managers are competent and professional, and they run at low costs compared to other funds. With a fund of over 11,000 billion, it is not surprising that many people want to make use of it to promote their policies. I think most people in this room have been contacted by individuals or stakeholder organisations who want to influence what the fund should or should not be able to invest in. Many may have objectives that you can agree with, but it must be firmly stated that the fund should not be a climate or foreign policy instrument. The objective must be the highest return on acceptable risk. The party of progress is sceptical about the fact that new product criteria are still being proposed for legal products. We are concerned that this will in the long term lead to lower returns and that the fund can be seen as a policy instrument. The fund does not belong to the state, but to all Norwegian citizens, and it is important that both present and future generations benefit from it. But future generations not only benefit from having money on books; they will also benefit from infrastructure such as good roads, proper hospitals, a well-trained population and a tax system that makes it easier to start businesses and create jobs. There is a difference between operation and investment.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1466	From the rapporteur – who has done a good job with this setting – there was a somewhat incomplete history description of the development of the ethical guidelines. It was the first time that SV spoke in 1999. Then we were quite ridiculed by an overall political environment and the total political parties. Then there was a development in which the Storting finally gave a majority to investigate it, which in turn led to its introduction in 2004. It has been very important for the development of the oil fund. The Oil Fund has been at the forefront of the world for a long time with a responsible and long-term investment strategy. But now we also see a trend in which more and more international pension and investment funds go beyond the oil fund in taking into account how current investment affects economic development in the long term. We see that the Labour Party in the United Kingdom is going in order to oblige all the country's pension funds to become carbon neutral by 2050, the state of New York's main pension fund has committed itself to climate neutrality by 2040, and the state-owned New Zealand investment fund shows that it is possible for state-owned funds to combine ambitious climate targets with high yields. Unlike New Zealand’s investment fund, the oil fund does not have specific emission targets, and it focuses primarily on climate risk, not climate impact. But many large pension funds and insurance companies now have far more ambitious climate targets than the oil fund has, and 33 of them have committed themselves to net zero greenhouse gas emissions from their portfolios by 2050 through the UN initiative Net Zero Asset Owner Alliance. Several of these members, like a couple of insurance giants, have similar amounts of capital under their management as the oil fund has. According to the analysis company Proxy Insight, the oil fund, or NBIM, is among those investors that provide at least support for environmental decisions for their portfolio companies. With this background, I am very pleased that the Committee is largely united in referring to the Net Zero Asset Owner Alliance and asking the government to assess whether the oil fund will also have concrete emission targets. At the same time, the majority here does not go far enough. We know that the composition of the oil fund today, although the index we follow is adjusted to geographical criteria – where coal and also part of the petroleum sector are excluded from the investment universe – is not adjusted for neither the international climate objectives nor climate risk. On the contrary, it reflects today's world, a world that is on its way to an average global warming of at least 3.2 degrees. So we don't invest to achieve the climate goals, on the contrary, we put the money in those who earn that we don't do it today. Therefore, SV also proposes in this position that the Paris Agreement be a superstructure for the Fund’s emission targets and that this must mean that the oil fund must be free of emissions by 2050 at the latest. Furthermore, the work related to pre-filtering was well reviewed by the representative Svein Roald Hansen, but SV concludes differently from what the Workers' Party is doing here. We believe it is a pity that the government has not carried out a preliminary filtering, as both we and civil society have called for, but rather a so-called mechanical pre-filtering. We are also concerned about the evolution of the fund itself and NBIM itself, where they are to operate a private-practice form of pre-filtering, where the criteria are not made known to either the Stortinge or civil society out there, and where we are at risk of financial considerations facing environmental and social conditions. We are simply afraid that there will be a loophole here to give priority to short-term financial and reputational considerations when the fund assesses environmental and social risks. I attend to the Minister of Finance's statement related to this. In the end, I just want to stress that the fund is currently invested in 64 companies operating in the occupied Palestinian area, of which more than half are engaged in activities incompatible with international law and the UN's guiding principles for responsible business. We believe that the fund should be withdrawn from these types of establishments. With that, I take up the proposals No. 5-8), by Mr van den Broek, (Doc. 9-11, from the SV and the Greens/Greens/EFA.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1485	The representative Kari Elisabeth Kaski has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1490	The performance of government pension funds in 2020 is extremely good. The Committee points out that there is a net real return on SPU in 2020 of 10,2 pst. measured in the currency curve of the fund. It provides increased fund values during 2020 of 825 billion. NOK 10,908 billion. after deduction of costs. The reason is the international economy, where low interest rates contribute to the rise in financial values. There are some very demanding dilemmas we are now facing, because the geopolitical situation is quite uncertain, and there are many uncertain points in the international economy. Therefore, those who are responsible for the management and we stand as a gulf towards difficult balances in what is called the highest rate of return within acceptable risk. What is ‘acceptable risk’ in such a situation? From the centre party we're historically concerned with real values, and to the extent that we're able to invest in real values here, it's our opinion that it could mitigate the risk somewhat. But this is a topic that should be discussed extensively and thoroughly, because it is one of the main challenges we face in the management of the Norwegian pension fund in the future. It says in the setting that one assesses it so that the growth in the SPU in the future will primarily come from the financial return, and it will further underline what I have just said. It also includes the State pension fund Norway. We also have a large capital force there. It is important that the state uses its capital strength to contribute to the transformation of Norwegian business, so that, together with private individuals, one can manage to get a long-term view of the investments and a sober demand for returns, so that we can do not least get a production and a transformation of our renewable natural resources in fish, in other food and in timber, so that we can exploit our natural resource strength in combination with our financial strength. The central party has also addressed the need to assess and see whether the State pension fund in Norway is able to operate with a more decentralised model of state capital management, such as in Sweden, for example. Enquiries have come from the food associations both in Bergen and Trondheim that one should look at such a reorganization. There's something the Center Party has been recording for a long time. We need to get more active financial environments in Norway, so that we can get different assessments and build knowledge in larger parts of the country. Finally, I would like to raise the proposal of the Centre Party, which we have with the Red Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1505	The representative, Mr Lundteg, then addressed the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1510	The rapporteur gave us a good story about the 25-year history of the oil fund, and its significance for Norway today, with its 11,000 billion. kr, could hardly have been more clearly shown than in the coronary year and under the coronary apandemia we have now. Throughout its history, the Fund has been guided by a clear political framework and has had good governance. And, as it is also emphasised in this matter, it should not be a political instrument. At the same time, there is no doubt that a fund of such size has its own financial interest in the climate and nature of enterprises. We are in a climate and natural crisis, and it also affects State pension funds abroad. This must be an active relationship. It is obvious that a fund of such size also deals with human rights and ethical issues. From my point of view, I am also very pleased that for the first time in this fund communication, there is a description of the fund's role towards the UN's sustainability objectives. It is also important the work of the Ministry of Finance, with its own expert group looking at climate change, climate policy, the green shift and how it will affect the State pension fund abroad. This, together with climate risk, will become an important theme for the fund communication in 2022. I'm also very pleased with what's on the subject of a new biodiversity expectation document. I think it's absolutely necessary that it complements the other expectations documents, also to see how the fund should deal with biodiversity. Investments in the State pension fund abroad are estimated to have emissions equivalent to 92 million tonnes of CO 2 equivalent each year. It's a significant size. Today, emissions for Norway came in 2020, and they amounted to 50 million tonnes. There will be an important assessment in next year’s Fund Communication whether SPU should also set targets and targets for emission reduction. It's important to take a serious assessment of whether SPU should also be part of the Alliance of Zero Goals derived from the UN, i.e. Net-Zero Asset Owner Alliance. From the left side, we clearly see that what needs to be done is a work that should end up in such an assessment, that is, with the result that we are joining that alliance. According to the Fund Communication, we follow up most of the Ethics Committee's recommendations: The exercise of ownership shall be active in terms of tax and transparency. Last year, the first sale occurred in which the tax risk was assessed as too large. Changes are made in the case of nuclear weapon delivery platforms. The issue of introducing a criterion for lethal autonomous weapons is still under discussion. The corruption criterion is expanded. All of this is positive. There has been a discussion about animal welfare. It is important that the SPU, at the Ethics Committee and the Ethics Council, also make assessments where there are serious violations of animal welfare. So the question is, should it be a separate criterion for animal welfare? On the left, we believe that animal welfare should be assessed in the context of other, particularly serious violations of fundamental ethical standards, while also investing in meat production must be part of the overall assessment of how to deal with climate risk and greenhouse gas emissions in the years to come. Finally, the debate on countries with a different legal basis, which in practice means authoritarian states: we are positive and satisfied that the leader of NBIM considers it to be risk-based sales with ex ante assessments, and this should be continuously developed. However, on the left, we believe that mechanical filtration of these countries will also be needed in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1548	The attitude that we are discussing now, and the treatment of this fund notification, shows that there is a broad consensus about the management of and the lines of government around the state pension fund abroad. The purpose of the Fund is to have the highest possible return within an acceptable risk and within a responsible framework, where it is also important that the management is carried out in a manner that is within ethical rules. That's a good thing, and that's something we have every reason to be grateful to those who have helped build up the fund. And there's something we don't have to do, of course, but that we have to work on in order to actually stand, because one is no more than a political decision apart from breaking that tradition. When it comes to the present message, many people have thanked the case-speaker and others in the Committee for a good work, and I agree with that. It's a fund message that continues the tradition not necessarily to be a revolution, but to be an evolution – where one builds on the mandate that one has had, and strengthens and updates the administration that one has, into a situation that is adapted to the world in which the fund operates, and the framework that the global economy sees for it, and not least how we must develop the ethical framework. When the fund has invested and has ownership shares in more than 9 000 companies in over 70 countries, it is clear that these are issues that it is important for one to have a continuous recovery, that one to continue to do so, as this fund message does. Because, as the case-speaker so well pointed out, the framework here shows that we have two ethical obligations. The fund should be managed for sustainable value creation, because it is not something we own, but something we manage on behalf of future generations. At the same time, one has to make sure that one does so in a way where one invests in activities that contribute to – or at least are involved in operating within – the fundamental ethical norms on which we have built our society. When we see the setting ahead, and the debate on the fund notification now, the big grips that are happening here are linked to the follow-up to the Ethics Committee, which was set down by the government. There is a good and solid review of the ethical framework within which the fund operates. The rule follows this and now it also connects to the way that you follow a large part of what came from that selection. These are important issues such as the weapon criterion and perhaps the criterion of serious economic crime in particular. However, one of the important things is that a person now ingests and gets an own criterion on drugs for drug purposes, that there is a type of product that is not within the ethical value base in which the fund is to operate. What I mean is a good frame-up, which the fund is going to get on. It would have been a big paradox if one had a fund that had a product criterion for tobacco, but that thought it was good to spend money on cannabis production. Now, when we look forward to taking this administration further – as I was at the beginning of my post – it is obvious that we are now in a situation where the way the fund has to operate, and the world around the fund, is changing a lot. We have had a large influx into the fund of fresh money from Norwegian base. That situation will change. That means that our risk picture changes, and that one goes from having an oil risk to having a more financial risk. It's the one big challenge. But we also see that they combine the markets in which the fund is forced to operate because it's so big, yes, they change. One also knows that there are demanding political environments around it. And not least, there is a fundamental question that remains in all the political debates in this Chamber, namely that we are forced to highlight the climate and the changes in bearer power that the world is forced to go through. All of these three factors are going to be absolutely fundamental to how we're going to manage the fund further. There's a broad majority in the committee and a broad majority in the room here that points out that it's sometimes useful to have a larger review of how we run the management of this fund, and points forward that one wants it. It shows that one also has the responsibility, not only to look back at what has been good, but also to make sure that we take care of this fund for future generations in an ethically defensive way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1561	After Israel first tried to expel Palestinians from the Sheikh Jarrah district of Jerusalem, Israel again attacked Gaza, which led to hundreds of deaths and injuries. This is the most recent of a number of violations of international law against the civilian population. In such a situation, Norway must do what is in our power to stop the abuses and the illegal occupation of Palestine. But it does not do so in its foreign policy, nor in the governance of the State pension fund, which has invested more than 165 billion per day. kr in a 60-year-old company linked to the illegal occupation of Palestine. It shows a survey conducted by the Norwegian People's Aid and the Trade Union. It has actually become a pattern every time the war blows up in Palestine that the government is moving out and saying they're going to do what they can. But why don't they choose to use the entire toolbox? Here we have a concrete measure to show that Norway is clearly distanced from a cross-border occupation. It should be a matter of course for any party that sees itself as friends of Palestinians, as friends of peace – yes, also friends of Israelis who want peace and reconciliation with their Palestinian neighbours, to support this proposal. The occupation must end, and it should be obvious to most people now that that line government has been on all the years, does not work. Therefore, we need to use stronger instruments, and the investment portfolio of the oil fund is exactly such a tool. But this is also a fundamental and ethical question: is that really how we're going to spend our common savings, that is, investing money in companies involved in the occupation? No – I don't think most people want us to make up our pension assets like that. It can be described as nothing but morally reprehensible. Therefore, Red has proposed that the Government should change the behaviour criterion for the observation and exclusion of companies, in order to ensure that the State pension fund abroad withdraws its investment from companies linked to international and other violations of international law, not only in Israel but also elsewhere in the world. It should really just be missing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1574	The State pension fund is a success story, as the rapporteur emphasised in his statement. This concerns both the investment strategy, the management and the results. The right and important choices have been made over time. The fact that the fund has a financial objective and is not a political tool has been important. Through the rule of action and a long-term and responsible administration, wise politicians from several parties have contributed to the fact that we now have over 11 000 billion. kr on book. An increasing proportion of our well-being is financed by the return on funds in the State pension fund abroad. In the time we've got behind us, we've put a lot of money into the fund. In the future, the fund value will depend to a greater extent on developments in global financial markets. It goes from oil risk to financial risk. The processing of the fund notification contributes to the transparency and anchoring of the management of our common savings money. It is important for several reasons, but particularly important in order to maintain the long-term investment strategy. The strategy is to develop gradually. The changes are based on professional investigations and practical experience. Particular attention has been paid to adapting the strategy to the Fund's objectives and characteristics. We have to keep doing this. Several changes have been made to the SPU in this year’s message. We propose to simplify the stock index by taking out the smallest companies and not including more emerging markets now. It will reduce the complexity of management and may facilitate the work of responsible management. We have undertaken an extensive work to further increase knowledge of how the green shift will affect investors like SPU. We'll get back to this next year's fund announcement. I am pleased that the Committee expresses support for the adjustments we propose and for the further work on climate risk. I have also noticed that the majority of the committee wants an assessment with a few years of key long-term developments and what consequences these will have for the management and management of the SPU. Within the financial objective, the State pension fund shall be managed responsibly. The Bank of Norway and the Swedish Social Security Fund use a number of instruments, such as: dialogue and voting, in order to promote long-term value creation and sustainability in the companies in which the fund has invested. We don't want some companies to own for ethical reasons. The ethical framework of the Fund is now further strengthened. We will come back to, among others. lethal autonomous weapons and the bank's prudence assessments. At the same time, there is a broad consensus that the threshold to exclude companies from the fund should be high. Management standards in particular responsible management are not intended to filter out or exclude companies but to contribute to a more responsible business life. The number of excluded companies is not an objective for the location of the responsible administration. Finally, the Committee's position demonstrates broad support for the strategy and framework for the Fund. I'm glad. Managing the Fund for the purpose of sustainable value creation for today's generations and future generations is, as the rapporteur also stressed, an ethical obligation in itself. The broad political agreement on the financial objectives of the Fund is therefore of particular importance.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1593	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1598	There is agreement on changes in the management strategy – fewer companies and fewer new markets, i.e. no automation in it – and a pre-filtering of new companies that come into the index we are in every year. The index is there primarily to measure the yield – whether we do it well, or whether we do it badly. I imagine that when we get the new strategy, i.e. fewer companies and fewer markets, the distance to the index will be slightly greater. Today, there is a rather pressing framework for deviations from the index within which the board can operate. Will this need to increase the deviation from the index, so that the board and the fund do not have too tight a framework to move within?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1603	It is a question that I believe has to be considered in the first instance by Norges Bank and SPU, before the Ministry of Finance would then make a recommendation to Stortinget. I believe it has been a strength that we do not make rapid or abrupt changes to the strategy of the fund, but that we are based on good investigations and experience. If such a need should arise, of course, it will be a question that we will both spend time on and ensure that it is anchored in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1608	In my post, I was so far within the new practice that the fund should relate to some kind of prior assessment of companies before they enter the index. I problemated that it will not be known, either for the Storting – and it is not mentioned at all in the big news – or for civil society what criteria NBIM uses for that filtering. It could potentially be based on the expectation documents provided by NBIM, but we don't know anything else about it. In line with the practice we have had with the management of the Fund, and where the Fund is world leader, will the Minister of Finance facilitate transparency in relation to the criteria and to which companies being filtered out?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1613	This is not a filtering. There is a difference between what SV has called for, namely mechanical filtration, where it is left to other commercial companies to take the decisions and the professional assessment to be carried out at the Bank of Norway and in the SPU. What has been explained is that a greater degree of care will be taken. This is in line with the signals and the leaders in the communication, as I have also stated in a supplementary letter to the Committee. It is the case that Norway’s Bank already carries out a systematic monitoring of the sustainability and ESG-related risks of the Fund. I believe that this responsible management builds up under the fund's financial objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1618	It is still the case that neither large-scale nor civil society has been made aware of the underlying criteria. What is contained within terms such as ‘sustainability’ and ‘ESG’ may be so lacking. You leave here to the bank to make those assessments. That might be right, but there has to be transparency about the criteria that are applied. I am amazed that the Minister of Finance continues to repeat that SV has called for a mechanical pre-filtering that is outsourced to the outside. That is not what SV has called for. On the contrary, we have said that this should be done by the bank itself, but that it combines the information obtained from other suppliers, for example. index supplier or other. It sounds to me quite similar to the assessment that the bank is making today. The only difference is that we are calling for transparency on the criteria at the bottom of that work, and I am amazed that the Minister of Finance does not think it is right.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1623	I am pleased that SV, as the representative says, is not in favour of mechanical pre-filtering, but that emphasis is placed on the Foundation's and Norway's Bank's assessments. The prudence assessment carried out by Norway’s Bank and SPU is based on the expected documents that SPU has, and that I pointed out, are linked to both sustainability and ESG conditions. This is not a closed system. There is transparency about the factors that Norway’s Bank and SPU focus on in the responsible administration. It is important that SPU has a long-term perspective on its investments, and that means that it focuses on responsible business, a business that focuses on sustainability, and where climate risk and investment opportunities are also an important assessment factor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1628	I thank you for the answer and I think it is good that we were made clear, also from the Minister of Finance, that NBIM should use the expectation documents in its work. I think this is a topic we're coming back to, because the criteria are still not clear. I want to switch to another theme. It is that the Storting decided to withdraw the oil fund from pure upstream companies in the oil and gas sector in order to reduce the overall oil price risk in the Norwegian economy. It has subsequently been found that this sale has been made very limited due to adjustments in the definition of the index supplier. Where it was really meant to withdraw the fund from pure upstream companies, it has ended up withdrawing it from companies that only operate on land in the United States, while having increased ownership interests in a purely upstream company like Lundin. My question is whether the Minister of Finance will understand what has happened, whether the decision of the Storting can be effectively followed, and whether an evaluation of how sales have affected Norway’s exposure to the oil sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1636	Yes, of course, we follow up the Storting decision and will also come back in the next year's fund announcement with an assessment of how this has been followed up. The reality is that the index manager has different sub-classes into which the companies are classified. In the case of the largest crude oil, one is out of those companies for all practical purposes. In another sub-class, which is offshore, drilling and other services – which is a very small sub-class with very few companies – it is more demanding to define whether there are upstream companies, or how those companies are positioned. As I said, we will come back to an assessment of this – how Storting’s decision has been followed up. Of course we're going to do that. It was a sensible decision that was made at the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1641	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox Case No. 8 and 9 will be treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1674	At the request of the Finance Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: the Labour Party 15 minutes, the Right 15 minutes, the Progress Party 10 minutes, the Central Party 5 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Green Party 5 minutes, the Green Party 5 minutes, the Red 5 minutes and the Minister for Finance 5 minutes. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, there will be a reply to replies from members of the government, and those who have to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1681	First, thank you to the Cooperation Committee for the financial market notification of the year. We may not be able to call it Spring's most beautiful adventure in the Financial Committee, but we must certainly reserve the revised national budget, but this is one of our permanent events at the end of the session. The communication was presented at the end of April and the Committee began its examination of the matter with a digital consultation on 6 May, in which the Governor of the Central Bank, Mr Öystein Olsen, took part. I refer to the setting and will explain the most central parts of it. This year's financial market notification is marked by the corona pandemic and the effects it has had on the Norwegian economy. In the previous case, we dealt with the fund announcement, and thanks to the fact that we have spent money in good times, we had muscles to put powerful measures into the economy in the face of the crisis. The exercise of monetary policy has also been very important. The rapid fall in the interest rate to zero has helped to limit the negative impacts of the Norwegian economy pandemic. This also applies to the steps taken to ensure increased access to capital for enterprises through reduced capital requirements and the State loan guarantee scheme. The fact that businesses and households have had increased access to loan capital has contributed to keeping activity and investment levels up. These are all measures that have been essential to contribute to ensuring financial stability. At this time last year, the prospects for the future were considerably more uncertain than they are today. The economy, despite multiple waves of infection and shutdowns, has recovered both faster and stronger than expected, although there are still single industries with major challenges. This is a positive growth estimate for the Norwegian economy, and also globally, for 2021. This applies both in Norwegian analyses and in IMF analyses. And as an indicator of the activity of the world economy, it's worth noting that the oil price passed 70 dollars the barrel on June 1. The financial industry, i.e. banks and financial institutions, has played a very important role in crisis management, and in this way there is reason to highlight the very good cooperation between authorities and financial industries. Solid banks have been a strength, and once the loss levels have been moderate, it is also due to the fact that the industries that have been most hit by the pandemic are not among the largest borrowers. However, the strong fiscal instruments have also played a role in helping to limit the negative impacts of the economy in general. The high degree of indebtedness of households, in combination with high prices in the property market, remains a financial vulnerability and risk to financial stability. Should there be a fall in housing prices, increased interest rates or loss of income, very many would be exposed. Households have to tighten up, it will affect demand in the economy and potentially cause increased losses. The tightening of the Housing Loan Regulation, together with stricter regulation of consumer loans – this has now been combined in a single regulation – means that more and more large loans are being raised in addition to value estimates and their own ability to pay. So although debt growth has increased somewhat faster than revenue in the last year, it is still lower than when the Housing Loan Regulation was introduced in 2015. There is also good experience with the debt register, with reinforced requirements for bank lending practices and corporate debt reporting requirements. The Government considers, under certain conditions, to extend the Debt Register Scheme with mortgage-secured debt in the house and vehicle, as well as possible debt related to public funding. One will also look at possible adverse outcomes of additional benefits related to the issue and use of credit cards. Some attention has also been paid to the risk-weighting of property development projects by the Financial Supervisory Authority, which have been at 150 p.m. It is very high and deviates from practices in other countries, among others. in the EU. There is a practice now announced by the government that it will look into it and then clarify how the rules should be applied to Norwegian projects in this category, for example. by enabling projects with a certain amount of pre-sales to give rise to lower capital requirements. With regard to the EU banking package and new capital requirements for credit institutions including extended SME discount, the government has already submitted a proposal for the implementation of SME regulations to be consulted. We are also going to deal with that issue later this week in connection with Prop. 147 LS. Furthermore, in the case of access to capital, a well-regulated securities market is also important as a complement to bank loans. Financial markets affect all consumers but are a complex and complex market. Therefore, safe and good services for consumers are very important, so that informed choices can be made, even if it is not risk-free in all respects. The use of cash decreases as banking services are digitised and more of the payment is made electronically. Equally full, money is a valid means of payment, and there is still a need to offer withdrawals and deposits of cash. Cash is a means of storing values, and it also has a standby function. The government has asked the Financial Supervisory Authority to draw up a legislative proposal for the bank's care-for-responsibility to provide cash services and will also assess sample work in the same manner. In this respect, I refer to the majority proposal in this case to set up a public body to assess the future role of cash. In the case of account number portability, bank exchange, transfer of services such as: Contractual giro, increased competition and the Storting's request decision are such that, under the new Financial Contracts Act, banks shall ensure a simple and expeditious procedure for the exchange of payment accounts. The transfer of fixed payment orders shall also be simplified. However, account number portability does not prove essential for a single bank exchange, but it will lead to significant costs, in the billion class. There are also no other countries that have developed a national solution. Therefore, the recommendation is to await the EU food-benefit report before further investigation into a Norwegian solution. The financial industry is an industry itself and is at the forefront of international development of new services and new digital solutions. At the same time, the fast-developing market and new players, both large international technology companies and small fintech players, are bringing in new financial services. Dissemination of loans to consumers through public funding is also on the rise. The development of both virtual currency and decentralised finance is closely monitored, including by the Bank of Norway. This is, to a large extent, an immature market, with a very high risk of loss. We are talking about actors outside the formal, regulated and controlled financial system, which could challenge the financial stability and the core role of the central bank as a guarantor of trust in money, monetary value and money. The European financial supervisory authorities issued a warning against virtual currency in March. There they remind consumers of the high risk, and the Financial Supervisory Authority joins that warning, like Ecocrim. It is a major problem that there are investment frauds linked to cryptocurrency. So as parts of the banking market open up to new players, it is important that Norwegian banks also adapt to the new payment directive, PSD2. The Directive is intended to facilitate payment, but not least to prevent fraud by introducing some new security requirements. The Bank of Norway has launched investigations to address the need for the introduction of digital central bank money. Developments are very rapid, and the Bank of Norway will be prepared to implement the DSP if necessary to counter the deterioration of the central bank’s objectives, which are to ensure stable monetary value, financial stability and a secure payment system. This can happen by transferring money and payment systems to arenas and systems outside the regulated and controlled financial market. The fight against money laundering and terrorist financing is also crucial for confidence in the financial system. Nevertheless, despite new international standards, there have been systematic breaches of the legislation on money laundering in European banks. It is of concern when the supervisory reports of the Financial Supervisory Authority reveal that most financial actors, including in this country, have a high potential for improvement and that a Norwegian bank recently received a large infringement fee for significant deficiencies in the management of customer relationships. This year’s financial market communication has a full mention of climate risk and the development of sustainable finance, and last Friday the government presented a proposal for a new law on sustainable finance. Capital is a strong instrument in turning investment into a desired direction, such as here to reduce climate emissions and stimulate a greener economy. The development of EU taxonomy is on record, and the government has been close to these processes in order to safeguard Norwegian interests, particularly in the fields of forest and hydropower. NBIM has also become an important supporter of those recommendations. A new regulatory framework shall facilitate sustainable investment and ensure a common understanding of what can be called green or sustainable, through a common classification system, the taxonomy itself and company reporting legislation for sustainable investment. It's important to avoid greenwashing. In parallel with the financial market announcement, we also deal with a Central Party Document 8 proposal to strengthen Norwegian savings banks. It contains a total of eight proposals. Some of them have already been mentioned in the preceding paragraph, such as capital requirements for savings banks and risk weighting in property development projects. I refer to the document, to the Minister of Finance's letter of reply and to the vote, and I assume that the proposers themselves will explain the proposals and their views. However, savings banks are very important in the industrial market in Norway, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, a position which is important to facilitate the further development of, through good framework conditions. The consideration of a level playing field and capital requirements for all banks operating in Norway is important and will now be followed up by the government. The EU banking package, as has been said, will make it easier for many savings banks, among other things. the reporting and publication of information. With regard to the conversion of financial taxes, a new model of value added tax has also been introduced in the financial industry. This means that the current model, with an increase in the tax on profits and the special financial tax on wages and salaries, is liquidated. The Committee recommends a proposal to ask the government to use the EU-wide space for action by ensuring that the capital requirements of Norwegian savings banks are not significantly stricter than those of their competitors. The pandemic has put us on a big test. It has been the most serious crisis since the war. There has been a health crisis and an economic crisis, in combination with a general decline in the world economy at the same time. Some 180,000 people are still completely or partially unemployed. Gradually we open up again. The wheels are starting, and society is returning to normality. But it will be a new normal, a more digitised Norway, a everyday life that will be marked by new ways of working. The main tasks ahead will be speeding up Norway, getting people back to work, growing in private businesses, building skills and ensuring green transition. It's a job we're going to do together, like a team. At the same time, we shall continue to have a strong international commitment because the challenges in the future must also be solved in cooperation with other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1736	First of all, I would like to thank the case rapporteur for his solid work on this year's financial market communication as well. I'm going to start with the end of the case rapporteur, with the Norwegian economy in the last year having been hit by serious shocks, and the uncertainty about the future development is still high. Now that we're making it easier to do the disease prevention measures, we see that more people are coming back to work. Nevertheless, there are many industries that will not get on the ground again with the first, and many workers are at risk of falling permanently out of work. Control of the infection and the gradual reopening of society is the most important thing we do in the short term to get people back to work, but in the future political action and will are also required to save jobs and give people opportunities in the labour market. The Norwegian economy had considerable vulnerabilities even before the crisis occurred — increasing numbers of young people were out of work, declining trade balance, lack of migration and major economic differences. These are major issues that one does not exactly solve through a single financial market message, but challenges that need to be addressed in order to achieve sound economic development in the next few years. The financial markets and the financial industry in Norway have proved themselves well through the crisis. We have solid banks, and that's pretty much good access to capital. At the same time, the risk of financial instability is greater now than before the coronary apathy. Unsecured debt, a heated housing market and international unrest mean that the risk will continue even after the infection is reduced. There is an overall financial committee that considers high household debt and high housing prices to be the main financial vulnerabilities in the Norwegian economy. In the year 2020, the growth in household indebtedness has recovered. It shows how important it was, among other things. that the Storting seized and reinforced the income protection schemes when the pandemic occurred last year. Better income protection has been most important for all individuals who have lost their jobs, who have thus gained security in everyday life, but also for society as a whole, by maintaining demand and reducing the economic vulnerabilities of the coronary apathy. The proposals The working party is behind in the setting - no. 1–11 — mainly on measures to reduce these financial vulnerabilities in the Norwegian economy. In addition, we have reported that we will vote in favour of minority proposals Nos. 13, 14, 23, 24, 25, 29 and 33, and subsidized for proposals Nos. 22 and 31. With that, I have mentioned the suggestions the Labour Party has – alone or together with others – in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1753	The representative Eigil Knutsen has addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1758	Let me start by commending the financial industry and all employees in the industry for how this industry has helped customers who have gotten into trouble, put up with good advice, and not least provided private capital for profitable projects. Moreover, banks and the financial industry are often the first to pick up concerns in the economy, and the industry has been acting as an important listener to policy-making for a demanding period of time. I have no doubt that the financial industry has helped Norway to get better out than the many fears, and I believe that banks will have to be given the opportunity to carry out their own banking assessments in the future. Housing prices are high in Norway, and this is unfortunate for young people entering the housing market for the first time. While some parties believe that the solution is more state and more regulation, the Progress Party believes that the solution is less state and less regulation. One of the most important is measures to reduce construction costs, prevent policy-making land shortages and actually allow the market to build what is required. Here it is clear from the setting of the financial market notification that there are major differences between the parties. In order to optimise the functioning of financial markets, we need effective competition between different financial institutions. The propulsion party is a proponent for easy exchange of the bank. The Progress Party is therefore not entirely satisfied with the way in which the government has handled the account number portability request decision, and is therefore promoting a new proposal for this to become a reality and for customers to be even easier to switch banks. Of course, this must be done in dialogue with the banks and within acceptable cost frameworks. But it is interesting to see that initiatives are also being taken within the EU to put this as a topic on the agenda. Today we are also discussing a proposal for a representative on savings banks. What has been important for the Progress Party in this matter is that Norwegian and foreign banks competing in a single European market should have the same competitive conditions and regulations as possible. The central point here is that the national action space should not be used to impose a competitive disadvantage on Norwegian businesses and that Norwegian adaptations in the intensive direction should be avoided. It is also important that banks are given the opportunity to carry out good banking skills, for example. the risk in projects relating to residential and commercial real estate. And finally, in order for the market to function well, it must also be possible to appeal cases, and we therefore propose a separate complaint body for businesses, traders and organisations. I refer to the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1775	The representative Hans Andreas Limi then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1780	In the last year, society's vulnerability has been underlined. The country's economy has suffered trials that have had a major impact on the income of people, on jobs and on the soundness of businesses. In Norway, we have been lucky and have had a fundamentally robust economy. This has led the country to cope well with the crisis while the pandemic has created major challenges in transforming the economy from being petroleum-powered to being driven on the basis of the new renewable industries. In such a transition, financial markets are essential to ensure that capital is available for investment in the real economy. In the view of the Centre Party, government policy and today’s communication reflect too little. The climate crisis is here and the transition is under way. The objectives of the Paris Agreement will require large investments from us. In this country, we see that more industries do not make or have the necessary investments – it is the potential of the power industry to upgrade and expand existing hydroelectric power plants or the needs of the woodworking industry to increase innovation and new production lines. Instead, we experience, for example: Norway is becoming an increasingly large commodity supplier of timber to our neighbouring countries, to take the last industry. In parallel with this, the EU is working to develop and systematise the so-called taxonomy of sustainable economic activity. The aim is to stimulate greater investment in sustainable activities, or as it is called in the EU Commission’s own brochure: the purpose of this classification system is to avoid greenwashing. For Norway, there was a legitimate concern when the Commission went a long way last year to disqualify hydropower as sustainable. A life-cycle analysis was required for greenhouse gas emissions, including emissions from both the construction and dismantling of the installation, in order for the hydropower to be called sustainable. Corresponding requirements did not exist for wind or solar power. Fortunately, changes have now been made here, but it is essential that adjustments continue to be made to this system, so that it does not adversely affect important investments in renewable industries in Norway, such as: the hydropower and forest industry are. Although earlier this year the European Commission presented adjusted and improved criteria for hydropower compared to the original draft, hydropower is still not treated in the same way as other renewable technologies and energy sources. It's problematic. Through the pandemic, we've also received evidence that having solid banks is important. Our banks have been an important tool through the crisis. They have been used to provide loans to small and medium-sized enterprises and larger enterprises in different locations in Norway. Norwegian savings banks are an important part of this system. Solid banks throughout the country are essential for people to live, work and live a good life throughout Norway. Thanks to savings banks, Norway continues to have a largely decentralised banking system. Local and regional savings banks provide a varied and well-functioning banking market, where important decisions are taken widely across large parts of the country. One might say that District Norway had not looked like it does, it would not have been for Norwegian savings banks. Norwegian savings banks are also consistently solid and well capitalised, and the decentralised and diverse banking structure is a strength for financial stability. It is important to have strict regulation of the financial sector that ensures soundness and stability, while adapting the regulation to the different actors and ensuring equivalent conditions. Unfortunately, we have seen that savings banks are experiencing abrupt and intensified changes in the framework conditions. Just before Christmas intensified the Financial Supervisory Authority's capital requirements for residential building with only 14 days' notice. In addition to being demanding for banks, housing and rural development are also affected by an increase in their cost. The EU is another player the savings banks have to deal with, and from there more and more complicated and comprehensive legislation is being produced for banks, which are mainly intended for complex international banks. Nevertheless, we see that the Norwegian authorities repeatedly choose to introduce this legislation for all Norwegian banks, without taking sufficient account of proportionality or taking advantage of the possibilities available to safeguard the framework conditions of the Norwegian savings banks. In order to allow smaller banks to compete with the large foreign players, it is important that the regulation of banks is more adapted to the different sizes and soundness and risk profile of banks. I would like to bring up the proposals of the Centre Party alone, and those we have with others in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1803	The representative Ole André Myhrvold then brought up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1808	Achieving climate objectives and transforming the economy requires large investments in renewable energy, infrastructure and new industries. We know that the money is available, but they are still being invested too much in activities and infrastructure that increase emissions and extend migration, rather than in climate solutions. The problem is two-fold: firstly, too much is invested in, among others. in the real estate market – investments that do not contribute in themselves to the necessary conversion and new industries, but rather contribute to large price growth. Secondly, it invests in projects that increase greenhouse gas emissions and lock capital and emissions. Projects and activities that cut and convert greenhouse gas emissions are often assessed as immature and at higher risk than others. Then it can be difficult to secure them lenders and equity. The role of the financial industry in the green shift must be to contribute to the transformation of other industries and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. We must ensure that the money is transferred to climate-friendly projects that convert and cut emissions in line with the Paris agreement. At that time, the strategies and practices for lending, investment and insurance must give high weight to climate and migration. Therefore, SV in this position proposes to explore how the framework conditions for and regulation of the financial sector can be changed to a greater extent in order to promote climate change and climate protection and how climate and climate risk can be weighted in the credit process. Then we also know that there are more than 90 state investment banks in the world, of which the European Investment Bank is the largest public bank in the world. But Norway does not have a state investment bank. That is what we see as a challenge when many climate projects are struggling to attract sufficient capital. A government investment bank can fill such an institutional vacuum as we have in Norway, where measures contributing to green conversion can be more easily financed by issuing green bonds and lending with long-term risk under long-term profitability requirements. It will be able to contribute loans and potential equity to renewable projects, enterprises in the mainland industry and start-up companies and entrepreneurs, each of which are essential to the success of the green shift. We also know that if we have a bank that issues green bonds, we can stimulate this underdeveloped market in Norway and help the money market get more securities that will be useful in dealing with climate risk in monetary policy that comes. Although we have a relatively well-functioning financial sector in Norway, it is not designed to contribute to achieving the economic objectives of society. In the main message, the government appears to be more concerned with supporting the economic interests of the financial sector than with supporting the real economy in the financial sector. The government refers to the role of financial markets as channelling the capital of society to which it throws most of it. But it's not necessarily in line with what throws most of itself in a real economic sense, or in line with what will throw away if, for example, we do. succeeds in climate policy. Interestingly, the Governor has also mentioned that monetary policy has long been the primary economic defence, but the Korona crisis has shown that fiscal policy has become one of the most important and effective branches of economic policy. The allocation of income hedges and grants to corporate investment can often have a more direct and predictable effect on demand than interest rate setting and is also more targeted in its stabilising effect. The SV believe that fiscal policy needs to be more firmly at the head of the stabilisation policy in the coming years. We get a more targeted economic policy by using large-scale public investment in new green industry and the necessary infrastructure in the low economic cycle than by relying on interest rate cuts in monetary policy, which can significantly generate demand in unproductive or polluting sectors of the economy. Furthermore, it is worth noting that today's government and the majority it has had behind it have over time seen a sharp increase in the use of oil money. This fiscal policy has been characterised by a cyclical policy in which money use has increased in good times with the historical risks of economic instability. The high level of oil money use makes the economy less robust in times of crisis, as we now experience, and creates capacity problems in the future. With that, I take up the SV's proposals and the suggestions we have with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1833	Then the representative Kari Elisabeth Kaski addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1839	As many people have experienced, the Coronapandemy has put its strong mark on both the international and the Norwegian economy in the last year. Most of the case is now recovered again. The loss of loans in Norwegian banks is moderate. It is probably closely related, as previous speakers have also pointed out, to the fact that the biggest crisis in the Norwegian economy has been in the outdoor sector, in travel, and there are many smaller businesses that have not affected banks that much. With regard to the international picture, as also stated in the Communication, there is one area where there is great uncertainty, and that is that very many countries have now raised huge loans. How it will develop in the years to come is a great uncertainty for us too. Then we have a paradox that oil and gas prices have risen significantly through the pandemic. It also places the oil package that was pressed through here in Stortinget last spring in a strange light, especially in the light of the IEA report that was just presented, which shows that if we are to reach the 1.5 degree target, there is no room for new oil and gas fields for production. This will have to bring about major changes in the years to come, including for us, in how to look at exploration, but also in how to look at the tax system for the petroleum sector. The Paris Agreement aims to ensure that the flow of capital is compatible with the reductions in greenhouse gas emissions – and the necessary reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. The European Commission is now presenting a new strategy for sustainable finance, and it will also have a major impact on Norway. As mentioned earlier in this debate, and also discussed in the matter, the EU taxonomy is for more sustainable investments to be introduced from 1 January next year. The whole objective of taxonomy is to direct financial investment towards more sustainability in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, in order to take care of nature, to build up under a circular economy and not least to avoid greening investment. There has been a discussion in Norway about taxonomy. That discussion brings me to another side of this financial market notification, because it places great emphasis on Norway as an open economy that needs access to markets. We are dependent on a regulated world, and we are particularly dependent on the EEA Agreement, and taxonomy underlines the importance of the EEA Agreement in Norway. It's a dynamic agreement that changes all the time, and we have to deal with it. It is then worrying and there is a concern that three out of four red-green lots are being selected for the autumn of the EEA Agreement. The EEA Agreement is a completely necessary framework, including in the field of financial policy, for the stability we need in the years to come. So I know that the largest of these parties sees themselves as guarantor of the EEA Agreement, but is that the guarantee that we can trust, or are the three other parties that really don't think they're questioning the EEA Agreement? For the Left, the debate on taxonomy, on sustainable finance is one example of why we should not just suspend the EEA Agreement but take the step and become a member of the EU. If there's something we don't need, there's discussion and conflict about the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1864	The pandemic has marked economic development in the last year. After a sharp fall in activity over the last year, large parts have now been recovered. At the same time, there are considerable differences, including between industries in Norway, and developments in the future are still uncertain. Developments in international financial markets have been largely positive in recent months, despite several large outbreaks of infection and new closures in many countries. The outlook for financial stability in the cold water of the corona pandemic is an important theme of this year’s financial market notification. High household debt continues to be a cause for concern. At the same time, the soundness of banks has been significantly strengthened in recent years. There's been a force under the pandemic. Bank loss levels have been moderate during the crisis. This is due, inter alia, to: that the industries most affected are not among the largest borrowers. In addition, strong government action has limited the setback in the Norwegian economy. The government is subject to as much capital requirements as possible for Norwegian and foreign banks operating in Norway because it contributes to stability and fair competition in the banking market. We have worked a long time to ensure that Norwegian capital requirements also apply to banks from other EEA countries. The European System Safety Council, the ESRB, has recently recommended it. It's an important breakthrough. The savings banks are a major and important part of the Norwegian banking system, and they mean a lot to local business. I am concerned with good framework conditions for savings banks, so that they can maintain and further develop their position. With the implementation of the EU’s so-called banking package, a majority of Norwegian banks will be facilitated by reporting and disclosure requirements. Banks will also be able to deal with a simpler version of a new requirement for stable financing. Financial services are important in people's lives. Financial market regulation shall ensure that consumers can trust that services are good and safe. This is an important theme in the message of the year. Although most payments today are made digitally, cash remains an important means of payment and value storage. In addition, cash has an emergency function. A survey of banks' cash offers shows that the offer is overall good, but also that there is a need to clarify the bank's obligations. All banks should contribute to maintaining a good cash offer to customers. I have noticed that the committee is proposing to set up a public body to look at the role of cash in society in the future. The government has already announced in the message that we are positive to such a sample, and we will of course follow up. Financial market policy shall contribute to the proper functioning of capital markets. It is crucial for economic growth and migration. Well-capitalised banks have provided loans to businesses and households throughout the pandemic. There is good dialogue between the authorities and the financial industry in Norway. Good cooperation has been particularly important in the management of the Corona outbreak. The government presents in the annual financial market communication the work on sustainable finance and climate risk in Norway and internationally. The EU has taken a leading role in facilitating the financial sector to become a driving force in the transition to a low-carbon economy. The development of a classification system for sustainable economic activity is one of several important measures. The government has been and is in good dialogue with the EU in this area, which is important for the protection of Norwegian interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1883	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1888	I noticed that the Minister of Finance was in his intervention just about the great financial risk posed by the debt level of the North, and as the housing market, with the housing prices that have been, also contributing. The financial supervision was recently out again and warned that this was the largest financial risk in the Norwegian economy. They also indicate that the level of indebtedness on which Norwegian households are located is at the top of the fact that more and more young people have significant risks linked to share markets. What does the government do to limit the risk associated with the debt level of the Nordics and the housing market? What action will be taken, all the time when warnings from so many different environments and actors are now so strong?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1893	This is not a new issue. I have also addressed the vulnerability of the high level of indebtedness of Norwegian households, and it is correct that the growth of indebtedness in households has risen slightly since last summer, after having decreased since 2017. However, it is still significantly lower than it was before the Housing Loan Regulation was introduced in 2015. I believe that the Housing Loan Regulation is an important measure. I have now extended this for a four-year period, and it contributes to a good assessment of the borrower's ability to pay the loan. But it's clear that in a situation where interest rates are zero, capital is cheap. Now the Bank of Norway has signaled that interest rates will gradually rise. And then it is important to take care of the supply side of the housing market and to ensure that a sufficient number of dwellings are built, in order to avoid excessive price growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1900	I think the Minister of Finance knows that this is more complex than a simple question of supply and demand. I noticed that the government's preferred tools here are just the mortgage regulation. At the same time, we must be able to conclude that in the current situation, it is not sufficient and has not helped to reduce this risk to the Norwegian economy overall. We know that if interest rates increase, it may not primarily affect the ability of the Norwegians to pay when it comes to debt, but when it comes to other consumption, which in turn will have major ring-fences in the Norwegian economy. The Minister of Finance stated that capital is cheap and readily available today – it is zero interest. Would it be appropriate for the government to look at other instruments in addition to the housing loan regulation, including the regulation of bank credit, in order to gain more control over the situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1907	The purpose of financial stability is one of three considerations to be taken into account by the Bank of Norway when setting interest rates. It's important that we are clear on the role distribution here. I have addressed this issue clearly – I would say more clearly than what has been done in the past – in a separate chapter of the Financial Market Communication, where we also go through what is Norway’s Bank’s different concerns when it comes to setting interest rates. I think we can do that because the Bank of Norway has an independence in these situations. It also means that it is absolutely right for me, as Minister of Finance, to be able to address this issue. I believe it is important to pay attention to financial stability when setting interest rates, but there are other considerations that need to be taken into account. I am very much in doubt whether there are other types of regulation that would be appropriate. I believe that the mortgage regulation has worked, and that it is an important tool in the situation we are still in.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1914	I thank you for your answer. This is certainly also a theme we're coming back to. I want to go over to how it was organised by the authorities and the government so that the financial institutions and banks could contribute to the economic crisis that Norway has been through. Several major instruments were used to enable banks to grant credit to companies in crisis. At the same time, we know that there are examples of industries that never saw anything about that credit or experienced it as an opportunity. Will it now be relevant for the government to evaluate the impact of the crisis measures targeted at banks and to identify how much of the bank's profits – which has been largely present in 2020 and 2021 – can be attributed to these crisis measures, which have been almost a form of bank subsidisation in a crisis? And will you consider whether the companies have actually benefited?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1923	I disagree with the description that there has been a subsidisation of the banks. I believe that the banks and financial institutions have played a very important role in the crisis we have faced, and they have been part of the solution. There were in particular two instruments we used: It's the State bond fund. It is not a commercial policy instrument, but it was an instrument that was important at the very start-up stage to calm that part of the market. We now see that the market value of the loans granted, 97 loans in 73 companies, is 8.7 billion. kr. The State pension fund Norway, the Swedish Social Security Fund, has evaluated this and viewed it as an appropriate instrument, but it means much less now than it did in the initial phase, as it was important to stabilise. Then we have the state-guaranteed loans, which have been used extensively, and we also look at many small and medium-sized companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1930	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1936	That Norwegian banks are solid is a very important pillar of our society. The banks' capital requirements must be consistent with the risks of each bank, and the legislation is based on the principle of equal regulation of equal risks. It's important to stand firm. Similar capital requirements to those of Norwegian and foreign banks operating in Norway, led to stability and fair competition in the banking market. I would also like to highlight the positive fact that the EU's banking package will lead to simpler rules for a majority of Norwegian banks. The savings banks form a large and important part of the banking system and are determined that Norway still has a large degree of decentralised banking structure. This is precisely why it seems so unreasonable that the banks should have a higher employer fee, which means that the more you add, the more you have to pay in. The Labour Party therefore reiterates its call for the government to bring about a revenue-neutral reversal of the financial tax, which eliminates an increase in the employer’s tax. This decentralised and manifold structure we have in Norway is also a strength for financial stability. It turns out in many cases that the government does not want to benefit from the scope of action contained in the EEA Agreement. The Financial Supervisory Authority clarified its understanding of the project to be considered speculative, and assumed that all fixed-income investments would be risk weighted by 150 pst. This made housing in the districts more expensive and undermined local banks. The requirement happened to all of the standard banks, of which we have absolutely most. EU countries had different approaches to this. Among other things, Germany did not consider it as a high-risk exposure if more than half of the dwellings in a property project were foreshadowed, and weighted by 100 pst., not 150 pst., as we did in Norway. The industry itself reacted and asked for change. The working party has pointed out in a number of cases that the capital requirement is 150 pst. is distorting competition for both standard banks and contractors and makes housing in rural areas more expensive. The action space needs to be used. In the last week came the final message. The action room will be used in Norway as well. It's about time. Here, for example, the government needs to be forced into place to use the space for action. When it comes to the fact that the Labour Party does not vote for more of the proposals, this has to do with both the level of detail we should be at in Stortinget and the wording of some of the proposals. When the representative of Elvesuen tries to question the Workers' Party and the EEA Agreement, on the disembarkation of any new government – yes, this falls on stone ground. The working party is and will be a guarantor of the existence of the EEA Agreement. It's both the SV and the Center Party agreed. We've been in charge before and shown that this is what we're going to do, because we want to go in the same direction. The bourgeois chaos we've seen in particular in the last few years actually guarantees that the Left should tread gently in the doors. Worse than today's government, it cannot actually be. I would then recommend the proposals of which the Labour Party is a part, and would also say that the Labour Party supports proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1953	The first speaker after the vote will be Marit Knutsdatter Strand.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1965	Then Stortinget is ready to go to voting, and we first go to voting on the matter no. 25-37 on yesterday's map, agenda no. 95.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e1977	During the debate, Mr Lerbreck put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that alert cases are distinguished in a separate department of the Discrimination Topic, which builds up specific competence in dealing with alert cases under the Working Environment Act.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e2315	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e2325	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e2347	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e2366	During the debate, Mr Lerbreck put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that students who receive a loan or a grant from the Loan Fund can also receive a daily allowance in the event of a loss of income as a result of the covid-19 pandemic.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e2444	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e2455	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e2477	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e2533	It is first voted on in the sixth paragraph of Section 6-8 and the last sentence of the second sentence.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e2543	The second sentence of Section 11-18 and the second sentence of the second paragraph of Section 22-12 are added. The Labour Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e2558	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e2568	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e2580	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Kristian Toning Riise on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposal No 2, from Björn Laabak on behalf of the Party of Advancement The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e2599	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 2 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Decisions to the law on amendments to the Working Environment Act I [[more independent handling of the case-law of the Courts]] In Law 17 June 2005 No. 62 on the working environment, working time and job protection, etc. It shall be amended as follows: Paragraphs 17-7, second and third paragraphs shall be replaced by the following: Co-judgments shall be randomly drawn among all the data subjects in each of the specific labour-intensive selections appointed in accordance with Sections 17 to 6. [[2]] Lawyers' cases are taken into consideration by the selections appointed within the boundaries of the teamwork. [[3]] The Court shall consist of half of the co-judgments of each of the labour-intensive selections of employees and employers respectively. II The law applies from the time the King rules. The king may specify transitional rules.»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e2638	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks for possible changes to the Working Environment Act in which today’s system of appointment of specific labour-intensive co-judges on a case-by-case basis, on a proposal from the parties, is replaced by a random selection of co-judges from each of the particular labour-intensive selections.’ The left has announced support for the proposal. The Progress Party has announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e2664	A total of 14 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Anette Trettebergstuen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Himanshu Gulati on behalf of the Progress Party the proposals No 4-14, from Freddy André Supreme Court on behalf of the Socialist Left Party In the event of an incurrence in the adjustment, the Workers' Party is listed as co-sponsor for proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4–14, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose to the government in the draft State budget for 2022 a clean-up of the culture’s share of the typing materials, and to propose that the cultural element’s share of the typing materials be used for the broad cultural freedom.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to better facilitate the development of cultural arenas in order to ensure appropriate and universally designed premises for local cultural life and freedom of culture, by proposing the legalisation of requirements to include the cultural facilities and their operation in the municipal plan.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that children’s and youth organisations have access to premises, by making municipalities obliged to provide children’s and youth organisations with free access to appropriate public buildings.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose to legislate on an open and free meeting place as leisure clubs for children and young people in all municipalities, as part of the cultural base wall, for example in the revision of the Culture Act.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government to propose in the draft State budget for 2022 to make cultural schools free of charge, through government grants.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government to propose a 2022 state budget to propose a stepping-up plan with earmarked funds for several student places in the cultural school.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to increase the competence of the cultural school by providing organised PPU education for cultural school teachers.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to propose, in the context of proposals for the 2022 government budget, the launch of a four-year national initiative for libraries by stepping up earmarked appropriations for municipal library operations and investing in library facilities, more open libraries and mobile libraries.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government requests the promotion of a school library case, including the introduction of quality requirements.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government is asked by the Government to propose in its draft State budget for 2022 the establishment of a Norwegian Computer Gaming Institute to manage the existing support schemes for games with significantly increased frameworks and the creation of funds, build skills and become a power centre for gaming culture, e-sports and gambling.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asked to introduce national employer responsibility and to strengthen the rights of contractors in the cultural school system.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e2752	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to liquidate the Culture Tank and to initiate a process aimed at replacing the Culture Tank with, for example, a smaller DKS department of the Culture Council, the DKS organisations of the counties and/or an extension of the Scene Art Use and equivalent activities for other artistic expressions. The field and the employees of the Culture Tank must be involved and taken care of. The government is asked to inform the Storting about the process in an appropriate manner and to propose the necessary changes at the latest in proposals for the State budget for 2023.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e2769	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to carry out an investigation into the alternative organisation of the cultural school bag, including the DKS organisations of the counties, the extension of the use of stage arts and similar activities, and the evaluation of the cultural idea. [[Strength of]] The size asks the government to inform the Storting about the process in an appropriate way and that any changes are proposed at the latest in proposals for the State budget for 2023, where the Stortinget makes final decisions. The level of transfers to the Cultural School Bag shall not be amended accordingly.’;» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e2786	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative in committed cooperation between the state, the municipality and the sport to reduce the cost of participating in the ICT and to steer towards a free principle. The Government is asked to return to Stortinget with proposals for appropriations to follow up the work.» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e2831	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Trond Giske on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to launch an external and independent evaluation of the achievement of the objectives of the museum reform, which also presents challenges and proposals for appropriate adjustments in the current consolidation strategy.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e2857	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out a consultation process with volunteers linked to today’s museums and then, as appropriate, to make proposals in the Storting on measures that could stimulate increased voluntary involvement in all parts of Museums-Norway.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to make appropriate proposals for concrete objectives and measures to strengthen cooperation between the relevant museums on the one hand and the Cultural Protection Association and its membership organisations on the other.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e2900	During the debate, Mr Sem-Jacobsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to review the national grant schemes for the production and dissemination of audiovisual works with the aim of introducing capital requirements according to the model of other countries which have such a condition in their grant schemes, so that a specific proportion of the State grants are used to produce films and television dramas in Norway.’» Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. Red has announced support for the proposal. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e2933	During the debate, Freddy André Øvstegård put forward five proposals on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and propose an amendment to the Culture Act requiring the administration of cultural policy in the municipalities, including the requirement for a municipal plan on culture, and for which the principle of arm’s length is legalised for all levels of government.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e2959	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposals No. 1–4 from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to investigate and come back to Stortinget with a case of possible changes in cultural management, including the separation of the Council of Culture into two functions, so that the arm’s length tasks and the directorate’s duties are carried out in each of its separate organisations. The aim of any change is to strengthen independence, transparency and the principle of arm's length distance for the Council of Culture, to strengthen the necessary directorate functions and to ensure the autonomy of the art institutions.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a strong strengthening of the Norwegian Cultural Fund, both organisational and economic, and to make proposals for areas that need more funding and/or competence.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and come back to Stortinget with a case to set up a research centre for cultural sector research.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the role and further operation of the Culture Tank in accordance with a new structure of the Council of Culture and a Directorate, with a focus on strengthening the cultural school bag. The study must include an assessment of the assignment of national tasks related to the Cultural School of the Council of Culture/Directorate, the extension of models such as the use of stage arts to several cultural expressions in cooperation with the fields concerned, and the increase of the responsibilities and resources of the counties in order to strengthen the provision of the school bag.’» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e3001	During the debate, Freddy André Øvstegård put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Grand Duchy asks the Presidency to prepare and file a case for a specific process of truth and reconciliation following the Alexander L. Kielland accident, which has been adapted to the case in question in accordance with, inter alia, the following criteria: – A process of truth and reconciliation that assesses and addresses the unanswered questions in the case, searches for new answers, seeks a agreed understanding where there is no answer, and helps to clarify responsibilities – acquire new and up-to-date study competence to participate in the process – Secure representation by leaving and surviving persons directly represented with employees’ representatives – Ensures participation from relevant international environments – Ensuring transparency of the process’» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e3086	The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e3124	In the course of the debate, a total of five proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Per-Willy Amundsen on behalf of the Right and Advance Party proposal No 2, from Lene Vågslid on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3-5, from Petter Eide on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose amendments to Sections 2 to 8 (b) so that information may be provided to the police or prosecution authority without restriction of professional secrecy where it is necessary to investigate an act which may result in sentence of imprisonment for 6 years or more, or which is affected by the penal code §§ 125, 168, 184, 201, 202, 204, 205, 251, 263, 266, 297, 298, 305, 306 or 309, or the copyright law § 104 cf. § 79.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e3153	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 5 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose arrangements for judicial review of the access and use of stored IP addresses by police authorities.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back with an evaluation, within five years, of the effect of storing IP addresses on combating crime with a criminal penalty of more than three years, how it may have affected freedom of expression by a cooling effect, and whether the purpose has been eliminated.’ The Labour Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e3177	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide concrete information on what is to be included in an assessment of the necessity of police and prosecution authorities in the case of requests for the provision of IP addresses’. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e3289	It is first voted on in the second paragraph of Section 2-8a. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e3303	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Right and Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The second paragraph of Section 2-8a is replaced by the following: The information shall be stored for 12 months from the date of termination of the communication.’;» The Left and Christian People's Party have announced support for the proposal. The Workers' Party and the Centre have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e3325	So it goes over the rest of I and II. The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e3339	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e3353	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e3460	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e3471	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e3493	The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e3505	The size then goes to voting on the case no. 1 to 7 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e3517	All in all, seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Kari Kjønaas Kjos, on behalf of the Progress Party the proposals No 2-7, by Nicholas Wilkinson, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2-7, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government, in cooperation with employees’ organisations, is asked to investigate and propose quality and competence-based recruitment standards in the care of the elderly. A standard of personnel must take into account all relevant occupational groups, where doctors, nurses, health professionals and other relevant occupational groups are part of the assessment and it must be established how task-sliding, education and training can contribute to the achievement of the standard of manpower.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to carry out pilot projects for municipalities that wish to establish actions with increased involvement of citizens and employees in the care sector, and to ensure their evaluation together with the professional organisations and user organisations, so that experience can provide the basis for a public sector trust reform.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up a national competence centre to provide guidance and support for the implementation of a trust reform in the municipal sector in cooperation with citizens using the services and the professional organisations.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to identify selected areas within the public sector where a quality-enhancing of the offer is particularly needed and to propose how such quality-enhancing can be carried out, within a trust-based model.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to put in place a State aid scheme for municipalities wishing to carry out experiments with more self-determination over parts of the time spent on home care for the elderly under public authority.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose amendments to the legislation on care for the elderly, so that government grants and user payments benefit older people, and so that this money does not benefit commercial private owners.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e3571	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to promote the necessary legislative changes in order to oblige all municipalities with more than 5000 inhabitants to introduce the authorisation model for the free choice of users in healthcare services.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e3631	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e3643	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e3657	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e3669	Four proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Tellef Inge Mørland on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Tellef Inge Mørland on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party proposal No 4, by Nicholas Wilkinson, on behalf of the Progressive Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to ensure that all persons who are injured by an accident are covered by this treatment.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e3698	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess an extension of the cover for dental injuries in the event of an accident, in the context of the forthcoming case for strengthening Norwegian dental health.’; The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e3715	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to proceed with the follow-up to Decision 20 on the strengthening of Norwegian dental health and to present this matter at the latest in the context of the State budget for 2022.’ [[2018–2019]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to introduce liability insurance requirements in respect of undertakings operating the rental of electric scooters.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e3758	A total of 23 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-7, by Tellef Inge Mørland on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 8 and 9, by Tellef Inge Mørland on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 10–13, by Nicholas Wilkinson, on behalf of the Progressive Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 14 and 15, from Morten Stordalen on behalf of the Progress Party the proposals No 16-21, by Nicholas Wilkinson, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 22 and 23, from Seher Aydar on behalf of Red There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 22 and 23, from Red. Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to present a dental reform for the Storting, which includes a concrete plan for phase-in of a universally available dental service, where teeth are treated as part of the body and dental health equivalent to other health services, for example through the self-employment scheme.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate the gradual expansion of publicly funded dental health, in order to treat oral disease as an ordinary diagnosis, and to equate dental health with other health services.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e3803	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 16–21, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a dental reform to ensure equal social and geographical distribution of dental services, where no one is to pay more for the necessary dental services than for other necessary health services. The reform must ensure a strong expansion of public dental care, strengthen prevention efforts to ensure that all receive regular dental examinations, establish regulated prices in the private dental care, develop principles of private business regulation and strengthen the supervisory system. Strengthening dental provision shall primarily take place through the strengthening of public dental services and priority shall be given to those with the greatest need for assistance, the oldest and the youngest.» Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asking, pending a dental reform, to propose measures to strengthen preventive dental work, including by training and hiring more dental nurses, and to introduce regular free dental check-ups for all.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asking, pending a dental reform, in the State budget for 2022, to propose a strengthening of the social systems and to establish its own dental system through Nav to ensure that vulnerable groups in need of dental care are provided with the necessary dental care, with common guidelines for the whole country’. Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government asks, pending a dental reform, to include several treatments and groups in the reimbursement scheme and to introduce regulation of dental services prices in cooperation with the industry, and to propose this in the State budget for 2022.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a high-cost protection until the dental reform is fully implemented, if the treatment is necessary and not priced above the given reference prices.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is asking, pending a dental reform where orthodontic orthodontics are offered as part of the public dental service, in the State budget for 2022, to reintroduce the reimbursement arrangements for necessary orthodontic orthopaedic orthopaedic orthopaedic orthopaedic orthopaedic orthopaedic orthopaedic orthopaedic orthopaedic orthopaedic orthopaedic orthopaedic orthopaedic [[regulation]] The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e3848	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 14 and 15 from the Party of Advancement. Proposal No. 14 sounds: «The government is asked to transfer ownership to the regional odontological centres of excellence from the county to the universities.» Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to submit proposals for free treatment for people who receive dental treatment covered by the public.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e3870	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 10–13, from the Party of Advancement and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that, through public confidence, benefits are provided to patients with increased dental needs as a result of previous life-dreams such as torture or assault and to patients with odontophobia.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that patients with previous life dreams such as torture or assault and patients with odontophobia are investigated, diagnosed and offered a customised dental treatment.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that patients with dental refusal are offered treatment for this before dental treatment is started, with the exception of acute treatment.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that dental-repudiation treatment is carried out by qualified health professionals.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e3905	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8 and 9, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present a plan for the gradual expansion of publicly funded dental care, ensuring that the full use of public funds is used to strengthen the dental provision, including assessing the introduction of a maximum dental treatment price financed in full or in part by the public.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to draw up proposals for the establishment of a social security scheme to ensure that people with a weak economy can nevertheless receive the necessary dental treatment. The social security system must be designed in such a way that it can easily be stepped up and gradually extended.» The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e3929	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 to 4 and points 6 and 7 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the public dental service remains municipal and, in this context, to carry out further work related to attempts at a municipal dental service.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks, in the context of proposals for the State budget for 2022, to assess the consequences of the cuts made in the dental regulation system for children and young people and to assess the need for a targeted strengthening of the social welfare system for persons in need of orthodontic treatment.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to consider measures to help prevent the centralisation and closure of public dental clinics, including the need for measures to increase recruitment in professional and/or geographical areas where it is currently difficult to obtain qualified personnel. In doing so, the government is also asked to consider whether measures relating to the purchase of dental clinics by major chains should be introduced.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to start immediately the work of expanding the public dentistry and ensuring increased capacity in the county services, so that all patients with public dental rights may receive the necessary follow-up.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a case to be brought forward with proposals for measures to ensure that regional odontological centres of excellence become genuine decentralised offers that provide people throughout the country with the shortest possible route to specialised dental treatment.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government is requesting, in the context of the ongoing evaluation of the dental care system for persons who have been subjected to torture and/or abuse and for persons with odontophobia, to start work on the establishment of a new social security funding entry point in order to provide these patients with a predictable right to the necessary dental treatment.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e3974	There is a vote on proposal No. 5 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to carry out an evaluation of the regional odontological centres of excellence. The evaluation will have to assess, inter alia, whether the objective of the centres contributing to the decentralisation of specialised dental competence, whether the current State grant scheme is correct and whether the use of these State grant funds should be modified, in order to better contribute to ensuring patients access to well-specialised dental care throughout the country. The results of the evaluation and proposals for action shall be submitted to the Stortinge.’.» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The Progress Party has announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e4003	The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e4044	A total of 14 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-10, from Nicholas Wilkinson on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 11 and 12, by Nicholas Wilkinson, on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No 13, from Sveinung Stensland on behalf of the Right, Left and Christian People's Party proposal No 14, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Center Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 11 and 12, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to reconsider the rules on absenteeism in secondary school with a view to reducing the risk of antibiotic prescription in case of infection.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to limit the right to prescribe antibiotics after contact by phone/video to the patient’s permanent and municipal medical services.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e4083	There is a vote on proposal No. 14 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to propose new pharmaceutical policy measures to ensure Norwegian access to penicillin child formulations, in order to avoid children being prescribed broad spectrum antibiotics when not needed.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e4107	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposals No. 1-10 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative in the preparation of a global Convention on Antibiotics, or an equivalent legally binding instrument, in order to ensure that the world’s population access to well-functioning antibiotics in the future.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for a specific class of antibiotics that must be subject to specific restrictions on use and follow-up’. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for information campaigns and learning programmes to be carried out by the government in order to increase awareness of antibiotic resistance in the population.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for guidelines on antibiotic use to be developed in immediately-help-daily municipal units.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government requests the introduction of diagnostic codes for antibiotic receptors for improved antibiotic prescription monitoring.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the establishment of a research programme to support clinical research into infections and antibiotic consumption, both in the primary and specialist health services.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose measures that contribute to its development and deployment in the production of penicillin preparations for children’. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose measures that contribute to the development and production of new diagnostic rapid tests.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to ensure as soon as possible that HELFO introduces a system in which patients who consider using non-North foreign healthcare providers are clearly warned of the risk of infection with antibiotic-resistant bacteria.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure teaching on the professionally sound use of antibiotics for Norwegian students taking health education abroad.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e4172	There is a vote on proposal No. 13, from the Right, Left, and Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to include access to effective antibiotics in the preparation of a WHO Health Prepared Treaty. The government is asking the government to assess whether the antibiotic resistance is suitable for treatment under this Treaty and, alternatively, to return to the Stortinget with proposals for further follow-up of antibiotic resistance in the WHO.’» The Progress Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal. The Workers' Party and the Centre have notified subsidiary aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e4196	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1 and 2, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Kjersti Top on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to propose to the Grand Duchy as soon as possible a change to the Patient and User Rights Act that resolves the current distinction between clarified and unexplained conditions, while proposing new longitudinal measurements and indicators that ensure patients’ right to a proper patient course.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e4229	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposals No. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to carry out an evaluation of the time-limits regime.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for further model C of the Health Directorate’s report IS-2742 on the regulation of patient conduct and the recording of waiting times in the specialist health service, where time-limits are replaced by the timetable, etc.’. The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e4280	A total of 11 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Svein Roald Hansen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left, the Green and Red Environmental Party the proposals No 3 and 4, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Centre Party and Red the proposals No 5-8, by Kari Elisabeth Kaski, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Greens and Reds the proposals No 9-11, from Kari Elisabeth Kaski on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Greens There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to increase the framework for the environmental mandate of the State pension fund abroad to correspond to the framework for investment in unlisted property, i.e. to 7 pst. by the investment portfolio.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e4310	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 9 and 11, by the Socialist Left and the Greens. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to add the objectives of the Paris Agreement to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees, as well as an objective of a non-emission investment portfolio by 2050 at the latest, to the mandate of the management of the State pension fund abroad.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government asks the State pension fund to be drawn abroad out of investments in animal production that do not meet Norwegian animal welfare requirements.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e4334	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5-8, by the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an increase in the framework of the environmental mandate of the State pension fund abroad.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is systematically asked to report on whether the investment portfolio and the reference index are in line with the objectives of the Paris Agreement as part of the annual reporting to the Stortinget on State pension funds abroad.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to change the behaviour criterion for the observation and exclusion of companies in order to ensure that the State pension fund abroad withdraws its investment from companies linked to international and other infringements of international law.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government requests the introduction of a product-based criterion for autonomous weapons in the context of the 2022 fund notification.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e4366	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4 from the Center Party and Red. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up guidelines whereby a maximum part of the State pension fund’s foreign activity is to be carried out from Norway.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks that the State pension fund abroad’s activities in Norway be disseminated to a greater extent so that it participates in the whole country’.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e4389	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The government is asked to take all upstream companies of the State pension fund abroad from the index, as was the intention of the Innst. 339 S [[2018–2019]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking to evaluate whether the sale of upstream oil and gas companies in the State pension fund abroad has affected Norway’s total exposure to the oil sector and has established a possible product criterion for oil and gas.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e4423	Treatment was continued for the following reasons:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e4441	The subscription then goes back to the agenda and continues the examination of the case No. 8 and 9, and the next speaker is Marit Knutsdatter Strand. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e4448	I signed to comment on the proposal for a representative of the Central Party. The Central Party believes that solid banks throughout the country are essential for people to live, work and live a good life throughout Norway. Savings banks are crucial for Norway to continue to have a largely decentralised banking structure. The decentralised and diverse structure is a strength for financial stability. The social aspect is also addressed in how savings banks contribute to supporting activity in their communities, managing scholarships and other. We are promoting several good proposals to provide local and regional savings banks. The centre party believes that we need to use the existing action space vis-à-vis the EU and the EU banking package to ensure that the capital requirements of Norwegian savings banks are not significantly stricter than those of their competitors. The centre party is pleased with the partial adoption today and for which the rapporteur suggested that the debate should begin. In addition, we ask the government to ensure that the proceeds neutrally convert the financial tax where the increase in the employer’s tax is removed. For high risk exposures to residential sales, concluded purchase contracts should be the point of intersection for assessing whether debt financing is high risk or not. The capital requirements rules must ensure the competitiveness of Norwegian savings banks and the relationship between standard method banks and IRB banks in the calculation of capital requirements should be identified. We will ensure and strengthen the position of the equity certificate, the framework conditions and the attractiveness of the capital market. Furthermore, we believe that it is necessary to consider reducing the risk weight of commercial property with less than 50 pst. Loan, from 100 pst. to 50 pst. for standard method banks. We have also proposed spaces for joint solutions in cooperation with other savings banks within a sound framework. The centre party points out that a unanimous increase has asked the government to come back with ‘proposal for a non-profit-making reversal of the financial tax and for the removal of an increased employer’s tax’. I Prop. 1 LS for 2019-2020 provided the government with a outline for the conversion of the financial tax, but assumed that any issues of EEA law would be resolved before a possible new financial tax. The centre party points out that there seems to be no progress in achieving these clarifications and that the government has not reported this to the Stortinget. The fact that the matter is being dealt with by the ESRB as of April 2021 underlines the importance of the government following this up, and I hope the Minister of Finance will comment on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e4463	The fact that high household debt and high property prices are the most important vulnerabilities in the Norwegian financial system is a broad consensus. In order to contribute to a more sustainable development of debt, banks’ lending practices have a framework. The Housing Loan Regulation was introduced in 2015, and since 2019 we have also made demands on banks’ lending practices when they grant consumer loans. These regulations have worked well. Since the summer of last year, the debt growth in the families has increased slightly, after decreasing since 2017, but is still significantly lower than it was before the housing loan regulation was introduced in 2015, as the Minister of Finance said. Housing prices, especially in the Oslo area, have increased, and some of this growth is likely to have to be seen in the light of the fact that Norway’s Bank has reduced interest rates to record low 0 pst. Through the pandemic, many people have used home offices, and we have had limited consumer opportunities, which may also have affected the pressure in the housing market. Another important reason may be that the housing offer is limited. In Oslo, in particular, few dwellings have been built compared to population growth in recent years. Unfortunately, I also see this development in my own municipality, Nordre Follo. It is planned to build 130 dwellings a year in the future, in Ski City. According to the Prognosis Centre, this will lead to the fact that Ski City will lack 3,200 homes in 20 years. When the Folloban opens, Ski City will be just eleven minutes from Oslo S. Building so few homes per year, I believe, in all likelihood, will contribute to strong price increases in the housing market for many years to come, and I am concerned about the possibilities my grandchildren will have for buying their own home in Ski City and in the municipality of Nordre Follo, if this development continues. The most important thing we can do to help more people get into the housing market is to provide a sufficient number of new homes. They need to be built in an efficient way, and there is a great responsibility on municipal politicians across the country to facilitate increased, sustainable housing and the development of their communities. Start-up loans are the country’s main means of helping young and disadvantaged people enter the housing market and move from rented to owned dwellings. Here the activity has been high for many years. In 2021 the government has increased the funds to the House Bank. Start-up loans are too many ways into the housing market. Therefore, starting loans shall continue to be a complement to the ordinary credit market, not a competitor. From my time as rapporteur in Ski and municipal politics in Ski and Nordre Follo, I can say that the loss of the Husbank's claims on start-up loans has been extremely low and made a dream of own housing a reality for many. It is an important objective for the Right that as much as possible owns its own dwelling. That is why I am pleased that the Ministry of Finance has, at the hearing, sent a proposal to amend the tax rules for housing companies and housing laws that can help more people enter the housing market through the rent-to-owner model.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e4480	It was an indication of the housing debate a little earlier today that made me draw. It also fits well with previous speeches. I can read in the setting - among other things. I will refer to SV and Rødt, who believe that ‘housed over the last decades has gone from being a well-being to becoming a more speculative object. Now we see clearly the consequences of having left the management of the housing sector to the market». I would like to add some comments to that. Also in the reply I have to say that the analysis from especially SV, and actually several other opposition parties in this case in terms of housing policy, is quite unsound and incomplete, at least when you point out that it is the fault of the market that housing prices are increasing, and that if the state could decide everything, you would have had full control. The fact that you do not have a state over-management of housing policy means that people no longer have to pay money under the table. The fact that the state does not override the housing market means that eight out of ten today own their own home, and that we have good living environments, exciting architecture and good urban development around the country. But I'm going to admit that everything hasn't been perfect for housing policy, for example. When the government took over after the red-greens — after eight years with them — there was a great lag in the housing structure in Norway. We have achieved increased building speed and lower construction costs through simplification and improvement. It didn't take many years after the Right and the other bourgeois parties had taken over the government offices, until we saw that the numbers of launches went up, and that the numbers of unnecessary objections went down. In addition, the Housing Loan Regulation, as many others have addressed today, has helped to dampen the price pressure in large cities – especially where housing deficits have occurred – and has helped to control household debt, even though it will still be a challenge that we all have to meet. What is SV and the Labour Party's policy here in Oslo? Well, it's increasing taxes, building less of what you need most, and simply making sure you create a price pressure in the housing market. You think you can take advantage of the lack of housing every time you ask for an answer. If SV had been here, I would challenge them on why they think they can be taxed out of lack of housing and not build themselves out of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e4496	I've drawn myself to underline two points. The first is the importance of having well-capitalised banks, and that the EU, both through the requirements of capital and through the supervisory authority, has contributed to the strengthening of the financial system in the face of the crisis. The second point I have to make is because it seems that the Central Party has not come to the conclusion that the Ministry of Finance has given an interpretation relating to high-risk projects, to which the Financial Supervisory Authority will now relate, which means that when there are projects where there is a certain amount of pre-sale, there must be lower capital requirements. When the representative Ingrid Heggø says that the government has to be forced in place to exploit the space of action, what in the world is she aiming for? The Ministry of Finance does not define the capital requirements relating to high-risk projects. It's the Financial Supervisory Authority. As Minister of Finance, I have to deal with the role we have in the Norwegian system. It is not that the government is serving an action room, and then we set higher demands than necessary. No, we're going to have the necessary requirements, but no more than that. We're also going to assume that it's going to be equal to the regulation of equal risk. In this specific case, however, the Ministry of Finance and I considered it necessary to carry out further assessments in addition to what the Financial Supervisory Authority had done, and we gave an interpretation opinion on the basis of that. It has been said by the Financial Supervisory Authority that they will now deal with it. I have also registered that both the savings banks and Finans Norway have expressed great satisfaction in this respect. It is true that in the case of some other projects, it takes time within the EEA Group to obtain the necessary clarifications. This applies, for example: the SMB discount. There we delivered the bill for the implementation of the banking package in April, but we are awaiting preliminary inclusion in the EEA Agreement because it takes a little longer somewhere else than it has done in Norway. I have therefore written a letter to the Prime Minister in Liechtenstein just to underline the importance of this matter. I am dedicated to taking care of Norwegian interests. I am committed to caring for the interests of the banks – that it should be equal to the regulation of equal risk – and we have now been able to make the same demands on foreign banks operating in Norway. It is good for Norwegian business, and it is good for competition in banking.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e4511	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 8 and 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e4529	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each political group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, there will be a reply to replies from members of the government, and those who have to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e4550	15 minutes is on top of a lot, and it's going to be a short statement from me. It is an overall committee which supports the government's legislative proposal to adopt this year as well a temporary extension of the time limits for the ordinary general meeting and annual meeting. This applies to, for example: limited-liability companies, public limited-liability companies and for the various housing laws. The Committee also supports the extension of the time limits for the establishment and approval of annual accounts and the postponement of all time limits by two months with this proposal. It is important to point out that both the Auditor’s Association and the Accounting Association of Norway have raised the need for this to be done this year too, in the light of the challenges encountered due to the coronary apathy. The industry also feels a greater need to assist its customers with the different support schemes adopted by the Stortinget. All hearing bodies are in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e4561	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e4578	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e4585	This case concerns the national high-tech defence industry and how it can contribute to strengthening Norwegian defence capabilities. The strategy aims to continue and strengthen an internationally competitive Norwegian defence industry with the capacity to develop, produce and support defence equipment, systems and services in priority technologies and areas of competence that are important for national security interests and defence needs. Over several years, the Progress Party has found that the defence industry has been treated as a disruptive factor in the primary defence tasks. The Progress Party is therefore pleased that the government is presenting a communication on a defence-industrial strategy that points out that the defence needs a competitive defence industry. Nevertheless, the view of the defence industry is that this is primarily to strengthen the defence capacity of Norway, as this Communication also points out. It's a truth with modifications. In isolation, the Defence would be able to maintain both the fighting power and the defence capability through the import of advanced material and defence systems. Others would claim that their own production of defence-related forces is Norwegian preparedness, but in turn it assumes that Norway has autonomous systems without the need for allied contributions. It'll be an impossibility. This does not mean, however, that the defence industry is not important. The defence industry is crucial in almost all areas of defence. The defence industry contributes to the development of high-tech industry, it makes us a serious partner for cooperation in NATO, it contributes to research and development, and it creates spin-off effects for other industries. It concerns computer technology, 5G technology, drone technology, underwater technology, space technology, cryptology, optical technology and a number of other areas that Norway is totally dependent on to strengthen our technology-based society. As the Communication points out, the strategy contributes to increased legitimacy for the defence industry. The defence industry is also doing something to which the few have a conscious relationship: it contributes to maintaining support for the defence of the population. With this as a backstop, it is devastating to experience that in practice the Norwegian authorities are putting their heads in the wheels for the development and growth of the industry. While enterprises are using their best heads to develop advanced systems and subsystems for the international market, there is a very limited number of bureaucrats in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and determines the potential growth and profitability of enterprises. They do so by saying yes or no to export licences. UD sits — high on its moral horse — and rejects applications based on criteria that can potentially have a significant impact on the viability of businesses. One of the overall criteria for granting the export licence should be whether the customer would in any case acquire equivalent defence systems from other suppliers. In such cases, a Norwegian refusal to apply for the export licence alone will enclose the Norwegian defence industry while strengthening competitors. The only thing that benefits is the self-image of the U.D. and foreign ministers from the Right Party and the Workers' Party have been united in such a practice of the law. The paradox is complete when it is known that Norwegian subsystems supplied to the United States are further exported through Foreign Military Sales to the United States of America is considered qualified to receive such material. The call from the Progress Party to the Government is for Norway to take an initiative towards European countries with the ambition to transform different national export legislation into one European legislation. As long as Norway chooses to maintain a rigid system for the handling of licence applications, it will be essential to extend what is currently referred to as the triangle model, which in the notification is renamed ‘Triangular model version 2.0’. It is positive that cooperation between the defence sector, the research communities and the defence industry is strengthened, but an important link is missing. I want to challenge the government to create a square collaboration, which also includes the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. When we know that it's the U.D. that can ultimately overrun the other three parties in terms of exports, it's quite natural that the U.D. is included. That is why I call on the Minister of Defence to see the totality. I refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the matter, but I would like to say something in general at the end. The areas of technology set by the Ministry of Defence as areas of activity are good areas of technology. They have also been untouched since I was in the Ministry of Defence, almost 100 years ago. These are the exact same areas, with maybe one exception. That's good, and it's a good signal also to the civil industry that we hold fast to what's been our strength all the way. But I hope that the Minister of Defence can involve the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in a more thorough way in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e4606	The representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e4611	Let there be no doubt: the Labour Party is a member of its own Norwegian defence industry. We have three reasons for that: for reasons of urgency, in order to provide our own defence; in order to benefit from the technological development of the defence industry in other industries for important export income and jobs around the country It is also possible to bring forward a fourth main reason by drawing back historical lines to Jens Christian Hauge, the home frontman and the Labour Party Minister of Defence in the early post-war years. Hauge stood centrally in two central lessons after World War II. The first one is that we're not doing the best by ourselves. That's why we were involved in the foundation of NATO in 1949. The second lesson – and most importantly for the Norwegian defence industry today – is that our Norwegian defence will never be able to match the major acts in terms of volume and number. But, said Hauge, we can measure ourselves by technology, and so do we today. That's exactly why Hauge was so busy getting the Swedish Defence Research Institute and its own Norwegian defence industry started, so that Norway too would be involved in military technology development. At the same time, a viable defence industry cannot be based solely on providing Norwegian defence. Exports are necessary and the defence industry contributes important export revenues for the Norwegian economy. Unfortunately, Norwegian exports of goods and services have fallen significantly in recent years, even before the pandemic. The defence industry and the closely related Norwegian space industry will play a central role in speeding up Norwegian exports. But let it also be said in this context: Defence exports shall take place within the framework of strict legislation and principles established by the Storting, and exports shall not take place to land in war or where war threatens. The National Audit Office has recently pointed out that the right-wing government has been moving on the edge — and across — of what the legislation allows, by giving green light to Norwegian arms exports to countries active in the brutal civil war in Yemen. That being said, it is also important to stress that there is also a broad political consensus on important aspects of defence industry policy, for example. by highlighting the importance of small and medium-sized enterprises in this way. But there are also political dividing lines that emerge in this setting. The broad political lines of Norwegian policy and the question of an active state are also seen here. The Labour Party believes that there is now a need for an active state also towards the defence industry, both through the management of the large purchasing power of the Defence – several billion dollars a year – and through the management of state ownership in large defence companies. It has not been many years since the Right took the initiative that the State should sell itself into the Kongsberg Group, our sovereign largest defence company. Fortunately, that proposal was abandoned. Norwegian authorities must impose requirements on industrial cooperation agreements and buy-backs in all major defence acquisitions. A more active state must also use the action space, e.g. the important derogation provided for in Article 123 of the EEA Agreement on defence purposes. The second major policy divider is about the borderline between what the Defense itself should do, and what can be set aside for private actors. There have been discussions many times. We now need to take a foot in the ground, and there are several reasons: the consideration of the defence's own preparedness and competence, important principles of international law about contentious and non-controversial, and questions about defence actually saves something on privatisation. And if the defense becomes too dependent on individual suppliers, we risk monopolistic capitalism where private actors can push up the prices, which the Defense will have to pay. It would be a very unfortunate development.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e4634	The United States and the West's military technology advance shrinks, and civil technology is becoming increasingly important. Throughout history, technology has emerged that has fundamentally changed the rules of the battlefield. It could happen again. The basic question in the communication is how the defence should be able to deploy more rapidly civil technology on which the defence is now becoming more dependent, where applicable. Let's say, it's not the primary task of the defense to develop new capacities. It is the supplier industry that is the driver, but it is the primary task of the supplier industry to support the defence needs. The Norwegian defence industry is the world leader in selected areas. The way the Norwegian defence industry has succeeded in the US market is directly impressive. Despite the fact that the U.S. defence market is 50 pst. of the global defence market, it is a difficult market to access. Here the Norwegian defence industry has succeeded. Why? Well, you've built strategic alliances, you've bought businesses in the United States, and you've exchanged technology. By contributing you have got something back, and you have been involved in new projects. At the centre of the Communication is the need to involve small and medium-sized enterprises to a greater extent than at present. Here the message says that there is an unsolved potential – whether as a supplier/subsupplier to major defence industry companies, or as a self-supplier of own products directly to the Defence. Whatever the type of delivery we're talking about, it's the Defence and Defence sector that has the key to success. It also points out the Svendsen Committee in its report. Trust-based cooperation, good role-clearance, long-termity and prospects for a fairly sound and secure funding are crucial. Then we get into hard business – the one who has the ability to bear risk, must also be willing to take a greater part of the risk in such development projects, which we know require long development and have large development costs. That the defence sector – and I think of the defence, I think of the Swedish Defence Research Institute – uses its purchasing power wisely is crucial to succeeding in the undergrowth of small and medium-sized enterprises. I would particularly like to mention an area where there is an absolute potential for greater participation of small and medium-sized enterprises locally and regionally. It concerns one of the eight points mentioned in the notification, with lifetime upgrading of military systems. There is an unsolved possibility for local businesses to contribute. Taking advantage of the space for action in existing legislation – and I think in concrete terms of the law on public acquisitions and its regulation – is absolutely crucial to moving forward. This might be easier said than done, because we know that the requirement of sound administration is absolute in the state. Staying within these rules of the game is demanding, and it requires competence. And here, the defense, as a large order, and as a professional buyer, must be willing to guide these companies. If you step outside the space of action that exists, which probably isn't well used today either – and I think the department needs to look a little bit closer, in the continuation of the message, how to use existing spaces of action – if you go too far and tread across the line, you get the Riksrevision in your heels, and then there's a certain danger that the good intentions of using these suppliers can have a setback, because then the whole system will be turned on to restore sound management.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e4657	The centre party wants a solid Norwegian defence industry that is at the forefront of technology and secures Norwegian jobs and exports, but is also an important factor in securing Norway. It is therefore positive that the Stortinget should present a holistic approach to this important sector of Norwegian business. At the same time, the Central Party believes that Norway should have a strict regulatory framework for the export of defence equipment. This helps to give legitimacy to the industry and ensure that the strategic product does not come to the wrong address. Strict export legislation gives legitimacy. Weapon should not be exported to land in war or where war threatens, and I hope that a broad majority in the Storting will hold fast. The Party of Progress shall order the transfer of responsibility for the control regulation from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the Ministry of Defence, without arguing in favour of it. It is claimed that the defence industry knows the Ministry of Defence well and is following the Ministry of Defence. That's right, of course. Well, that's the contractor in a lot of ways. But the centre party thinks it's good with an arm's length distance when you're going to give permission to export defense equipment and weapons. For even though this is a large industry, it is also a special industry, and there are special products being exported. It's not the same thing as exporting nails. Norway is saying that we are strict, but of course with a regulatory framework that treats the companies ‘fair’ and ‘fair’ and that ensures a balance between being strict and using the legislation and being involved and ensuring that we can continue to export. That means I'm two sides of the same thing. I believe that broad political agreement is a commitment to the growth and development of the defence industry. Thus, the Central Party is leading the lines of the defence industry strategy, but a weakness in the strategy is that it does not point out how more SMEs are going to be commissioned by the Defence Agency. Several small and medium-sized enterprises in the defence industry are currently focusing on the export market as the defence is considered to be one for a demanding customer. A lot of red tape, unincorporated processes and time-consuming, rigid and unbalanced contracts are shown. This has also been communicated directly to the Committee by means of a hearing call. The centre party believes that the defence must be better at extracting the potential of these companies. Several NATO countries have established their own mechanisms to simplify processes so that defence can benefit from the competence of small and medium-sized enterprises. I believe the Center Party must sympathize in order for corresponding arrangements to be established in Norway. A large part of the defence industry is located in the north, and defence is a major regional social and employer. Based on the existing presence and the further strengthening of the Defence that should and will be done in North Norway, there will be ring-fences in the form of increased demand for materials, goods and services and for ownership, construction and construction services from industry locally and regionally. It is then important that small and medium-sized enterprises can also win locally and regionally. The Norwegian defence industry is world-leading. There's reason to be proud of it. Norway is a technology nation that may be in the dark. But I disagree with Mr Tybring-Gjedde, who does not see the defence industry as important for Norwegian preparedness. In addition to being a large export industry, the Norwegian defence industry must also support the defence, and there is no doubt that in a crisis or war situation, all countries with a national defence industry will benefit from the obligation to secure the defence they need, even if one will always depend on good interaction with allies.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e4674	The Norwegian defence industry has a proud and long history. At the end of the month, Raufoss will mark the 125th anniversary of Raufoss Ammunition factories, now Nammo, a driver in the defence industry today. When I grew up at Eina, near Raufoss, it was like if you were going to have a summer job or start working, you were going to work at the factory, and there were at Raufoss Ammunition factories a lot of people started their professional career. The defence industry is important for jobs in Norway. It is important for exports, but, above all, the Norwegian defence industry is central to the defence and security needs of Norway. This Communication refers to the triangular cooperation with the Swedish Defence Research Institute, but also other educational, research and development environments cooperate with the defence industry and the defence on how this should be further developed – a triangular cooperation that works well but that needs to be reinforced. Otherwise, the Left is very pleased that such emphasis is placed on enhanced cooperation and the use of small and medium-sized enterprises. It is important for small and medium-sized enterprises, but first and foremost it is important to put into practice the technology and top competence of small and medium-sized enterprises in the development of the defence industry. It will be seen to make purchasing strategies more flexible and to provide a simpler purchasing cycle for small and medium-sized enterprises. There are many other NATO countries that have been capable of getting to, and from which we need to learn. As the representative of the Elves had in mind, it is a larger image that the democracies themselves in the world are challenged by defence technology. In this picture, we need a Norwegian defence industry in which we are contributing to NATO's defence industry being at the forefront of the world, and that we have the leading tipping skills and leading technology. It is therefore important that we continue to cooperate in the United States, where the Norwegian defence industry has succeeded well, impressively, but that we also continue to cooperate in the Nordic countries and in Europe – in the context of NATO cooperation, but also in cooperation with the European Union. That is why it is good that we join the European Defence Fund. There is no doubt that cooperation in Europe can be much better. It could be exploited by developing the technology and technology potential of the European defence industry, of which Norway is a part, but also in broader cooperation with the United States and by strengthening our position internationally. It is important that we have strict export legislation, but there is nothing wrong with this being harmonised in Europe or NATO. I think it will strengthen the effort to prevent weapons from getting on the way or getting into wrong hands and being used in the wrong way. The question is whether we can get more countries to make tough demands, and whether – from the left – one can look at the need for a democratic requirement for arms exports as well. This is a good message. It strengthens cooperation to strengthen the Norwegian defence industry. The Norwegian defence industry is important for Norway and Norway’s security, but is also important in a broader perspective, for enhanced security work within NATO and in Europe and for strengthening the position of democracies in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e4689	The government has seen the need to provide the Stortinget with an up-to-date national defence industrial strategy. It is due to changed defence and security policy framework conditions, rapid technological development and changes in the defence market. The strategy has a defence and security policy justification. It is important to maintain and further develop an internationally competitive Norwegian defence industry in order to safeguard our national security interests. The needs of the defence sector and the ability of the defence sector to fulfil its tasks guide the strategy. The strategy emphasises the need for defence to have access to material, competences and services. This also governs the eight technological areas of competence that guide cooperation with industry. Cooperation and partnership are important to ensure the defence of access to new technologies. The title of the Communication, Cooperation for Security, reflects the need for multi-level cooperation: multi-national material and industrial cooperation with other countries and organisations, such as the European Union, strategic partnerships with industry, so-called triangle cooperation and cluster collaboration between users, academia and enterprises. In the framework work on the Communication, it emerged that there was a need to better adapt the strategy to SMEs. This is how they can more fully develop their opportunities to meet the needs of the defence. The government has therefore focused on further developing the strategy in this area. An innovative and competent Norwegian defence industry is a strategic resource for the whole country. It also contributes to the safety of Norway and NATO. Small businesses, small and medium-sized enterprises, are an important part of this picture. By strengthening the ability of the defence sector to take advantage of the competence of the Norwegian industry and the capacity for innovation, we contribute both to a forward-looking defence and to national technological development. One of the main measures for enhanced innovation in the sector is the establishment of ICE worm, a research-based innovation centre at the Defence Research Institute. The Centre shall facilitate dynamic cooperation between research environments, operational user environments in the Defence and relevant technology environments in the private sector. We're now stepping up this bet. The follow-up to the Single European Act will focus to a greater extent than in the past on the development and use of instruments and measures for small and medium-sized enterprises. Regional cluster collaboration between the Defence, Academia and industry contributes to regional robustness and preparedness that benefits the Defence. This could also have a ring-fenced effect on business locally. Arena Nord in Narvik, Innovation Base Nord and Arctic Aviation Center at Bardufoss are examples of initiatives that seek to create opportunities through good organisation and regional cooperation. We also need to assess whether acquisitions can be more structured so that small and medium-sized enterprises can achieve more easily with their products and services in order to meet defence needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e4706	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e4712	I mentioned in my post that we don't have a defence industry because of preparedness, but we actually have logistical support because of preparedness. We have four suppliers in logistics. It's Car in the North. It's Grieg Strategic Services. It's Bring, and it's Bertel O. Steen. These companies lack long-term contracts. Annual contracts are concluded or from practice to practice. Now you have the Cold Response in 2022, where the Defense is completely dependent on these four companies. Is it the case that the Minister of Defence will now take the initiative to get long-term agreements over time, so that these companies do not have to wait and beg because it is going through several stages before coming to the Ministry of Defence? I'm aware that the minister is probably going to say that it's not under his responsibility, but it actually does. Will the Minister of Defence look at how these agreements are set up, and what progress can be made in the processes to put this in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e4717	The strategic agreements of the defence are very much within my constitutional area. So there's no question about it, but we're here in a dilemma. First, it's not like they're only operating on one-year contracts or contracts for the next exercise. There are also five-year contracts and seven-year contracts. Norway is a small country, and there are two considerations to consider. One is to get access to those who are good at delivering services, and get the best to do so. But we want it to happen at the right price. This means that we will also maintain as much as possible a functioning market. Then we have to rig this kind of competition so that it doesn't create monopolists. It is an important job that the civil service and the FLO work on every day, so that we are absolutely sure that once we have written a contract and that contact goes to the end, there should be a market where we can compete for the next contract.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e4724	It sounds very elegant and nice, but for the companies involved, it doesn't help that the defense wants to have annual contracts that make it very difficult for them to plan ahead. It's absolutely crucial. Governments say five- and seven-year contracts. They haven't seen or heard anything about, but you might theoretically want to. The contracts I have heard about are in one and two years, so that they cannot plan longer than for the next exercise. You're totally dependent on it. To maintain skills and to have good and secure jobs, to ensure the ability to develop further, you are completely dependent on a longer time horizon for what you actually have to do. This is not like going in and buying Saab engines from a supplier. This is advanced preparedness that makes them have to coordinate this, get the best people to do it, and a tenant both equipment, places, etc. to get this delivered. So once again a question to the Minister of Defence: will he take an initiative to look at these contracts, which might do something better?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e4729	The world is probably not just so that it is the contracts that the representative Tybring-Gjedde has seen, that apply. When I say there are contracts of both seven years and five years, that's actually true. The large, heavy contracts last much longer than one year. But there are project contracts that go forward to the next exercise, or that can be project-based for one year to come. As I said, this is a balance. We want a functioning market. It shall be possible to have a tender also in a contract. We balance this in the length of the contracts and evaluate it based on what kind of market you are in, and what kind of services you are going to buy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e4734	The Minister of Defence and I have discussed this before, and it is clear from this debate that there is a great deal of agreement on all the main lines of the government's communication, and the Workers' Party supports this – that is clear. But as I said in my post, there are some significant dividing lines. In extending the discussion on small and medium-sized enterprises and their activities in this broad picture, we have a full maintenance perspective. What I want to ask the Council of State now is what the Workers' Party means, and as I said in my post: Isn't there a reason why the Defense properly thinks through what it is they can do themselves, and what they have to put away? The working party is not against private entry, but we now see a scale of this in such a way that we are very in doubt about this serving the structure and impact of the defence in the long term. I ask the Minister of Defense again if he can imagine thinking through this again.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e4741	I react to the premise that this is something that is not thought of, that this is something that has been left to free market forces, or to some obscurity out there that is nagging tasks from the Defense. No, it's carefully thought out. First of all, there's an analysis of what you should do on your own, and what you can put out. An assessment has also been made of the maintenance of the first line, and then you can put the rear, slightly heavier over to other environments. They've made assessments of what kind of material it is. Is it standard material? I have used the example of the vehicles for the Home Guard, which is a standard pickup: we do the simplest maintenance on in the car repair shops that do that type of maintenance all over the country. Then we put heavy maintenance, and especially heavy technical maintenance, as there are no other environments that can do, to the Defense itself. This is a field where you're always going to make new assessments as time changes. But it's not like it's not going through. Ida, there were deep and thorough analyses before we decided.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e4746	It doesn't make it any better that the Minister of Defense now says that all this is so very thoughtful, when we hear all the messages we get from the Defense out there that they could easily do all of this themselves, while the Defence's own maintenance organisation is being built up, and you take in private, which is unnecessarily coming in and doing the job that you would otherwise have had good qualifications to do. If it's thoughtful, it's just an expression of what we've said before, that it's a conscious ideological line. In addition, we have the international legal perspective in this big picture, which relates to: Can these private institutions do this maintenance job in a sharp situation? We never got an answer to that. The Minister of Defence can now take the opportunity to give a thoughtful answer to this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e4753	I've also heard the voices out there. The voices out there, as the representative of Kolberg pointed out, were also those who thought that we were laying down jobs in the interior when we moved mechanical work to, among other things. Porsanger, because we established a battalion up there, had a vehicle there and needed to operate maintenance there. Then we had to move some jobs up there, because suddenly the work was there. It is in my opinion not to put anything away. It is doing the job where the job is to be done, namely where the vehicles will roll. It was Defence Equipment in the interior that had it, and it was Defence personnel in Finland that got the job that was to be done there. In terms of international law, we've discussed it many times. I've said that what we're doing is within the realm of international law. We've made assessments of international law, and we believe that what we're doing is within the realm of international law. So those who are going to do these jobs in any conflict or war are going to be able to be in the positions they're going to be in, or we're going to have others to do it. But we've made the international legal assessments within these fields and within the contracts we've signed. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e4760	If the technology areas of the strategy are to make sense, Norwegian industry needs to be used when it comes to doing so, and national solutions need to be worked out where today there is a vulnerability related to our dependence on foreign suppliers. An example of this is cloud solutions. The defence depends on operating infrastructure and storing data in order to function. In the context of the long-term defence plan, the Centre Party proposed to initiate a Norwegian or common Norwegian public cloud resolution. It voted against the right, and the right has instead put data storage to tender, and cloud services from Microsoft have now been used by the Defence. Today, the NRK writes that the Center Party has called for a national cloud resolution, and the Right then says that we turn open doors because the Right already works with such a solution in the government. Then my question is, how long has the Right assessed such a national public cloud resolution?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e4769	In terms of this type of material, we have to distinguish between what is classified information and what is open information. Too limited has been the job for us to be able to implement it in general government. This is a pretty big job, and finding a solution for storing that kind of information has been a natural part of those projects. In the case of a general national or Nordic cloud solution, this was not the case. But for limited communications and for secret networks, for example, it's very good to find a storage form that makes us absolutely sure that we have control of the national network, and it's been in the projects we've been working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e4776	In an answer to a written question from the representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik on 2 December 2019, the Minister of Defence was asked about this, about the outsourced data storage to Microsoft and made itself dependent on large multinational companies. It was asked whether it is such that classified information is also stored with these foreign companies. The Minister of Defense replied that it was not planned at that time, but that it was to be assessed within a year. It's now two years ago. Then my question is: Is there today classified information in general cloud services provided by Microsoft or other international companies, or is it still to be assessed?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e4784	Very well known, classified information is not stored in general cloud services.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e4789	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e4794	We can see from the reports given both in the vote and also in the debate so far that there is a great deal of beauty about the military industry. Although someone places the decisive emphasis on being as Norwegian as possible, and others stress that it should be as state-driven as possible, I think the government can be pleased that there is a great deal of support for the main points of the message. Then we might also have to stay at some times of danger, because that's how the transition from party speeches to realities can sometimes be a long one. It is important that we also ensure that those in the industry have predictability. It may take a very long time between the first dialogue with the customer and the conclusion of a contract. Many defence contracts will include long-term and continuous updates, spare part guarantees, etc. This helps to ensure that contracts can last for very many years – and thus several large-scale periods. It is fine that there is a broad political consensus here too, but at the same time we must remember that it is essential that the Storting does not take over the administrative proceedings when they refuse or grant export licences under Storting's own law. You can control it through the ordinary channels, you can be critical, but we don't have to have a practice that makes every time the media make claims that Norwegian components should be used at a conflict point in the world, the pressure here from the Storting increases that it should be suspended. Then we undermine the very assumption of long-termity, and we also hit our own industry, without helping or promoting the purposes that you might think are idealistic. I am thinking in particular of B-materials and also other product categories that can be used both civilly and militarily, but that do not have any damage to persons or soldiers, and that have no impact on the battlefield, but can be supportive. I also think we should be realistic and say that the administration, which is doing a good job by following the general guidelines of the Storting, must also be able to count on itself to help with the predictability needed for those who are in industry. I also hear that more people here want the volume of exports to rise.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e4807	There are a few small things I want to point out to different representatives. I understood at the representative Kolberg that he was concerned about state ownership. Now there's probably no serious discussion about whether Nammo and Kongsberg are going to have majority ownership of the public. We can go back a few years and find that the Right argued for it or that once a long time ago, but let's deal with the realities we have today. But what's important is the undergrowth of private companies that exist among these big companies, and that's where the value creation takes place, first and foremost. That's what creates spin-off effects for civil industry, the hundreds of companies that are there. I assume that the representative Kolberg does not want government ownership of these too, because then the development that you are completely dependent on does not happen. The representative of Riveres says – quite correctly – that Kongsberg has purchased companies in the United States. Yeah, that's absolutely right, and it's been really nice. But then we actually have to accept that there are some people who buy up Norwegian companies as well, because it goes both ways, and that's what Rheinmetall has done when they bought up Vinghøk. And Vinghøg produces a product that the U.D. has said no to export. As a result, Vinghög risks moving out of Norway to a country that has more liberal export legislation than Norway, and all they have produced — these observation towers. Then we don't just lose one contract. Winghøg has been leading the world with this observation tower, but they lose the opportunity to compete further, because it's a competitor who gets hold of it. And then what happens? Well, those to whom we don't want to export get the same weapon anyway – just that they don't get it from Vinghøg. So it's loss, loss, loss. That is why we need a regulatory framework in which Europe joins forces and has a common regulatory framework. It'll be a little more liberal than what we have in Norway, obviously, because France, the United Kingdom and Germany have much more liberal legislation than Norway, but if we're going to be tougher here, it's very hard to export. It is true in 2021 that there is cross-ownership in the defence industry, as there is cross-ownership in all other industries. So it's just that we're equally dependent on the foreign industry that we hope the rest of the world will depend on us, and for Kongsberg's part, it's actually subsystems that they do, which makes them in the United States monopolised in some areas, in NASAMS and some other areas. But we're dependent on imports from others. So we cannot create an export code that is so strict that it destroys the ability to compete in the market. So once again a call to the Minister of Defence: working with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, making this square collaboration work, so that you can be coordinated. If you do not accept that proposal for the Progress Party, then coordinate with the U.D. I remember very well how it was the time I worked there. It's not coordination. I hope it can be in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e4818	I do not think the representative Tybring-Gjedde should be entirely alone about his interest in the example he mentioned, namely Vinghög, who was acquired by Rheinmetall, and who experienced that they had a large contract cancelled, which nevertheless finds the way to the buyer, who is not himself involved in acts of war. The point is also good in the sense that it might remind us that in Nordic cooperation we have started to talk about defence cooperation – that is quite new – but perhaps we should also look at exchanging best practice when it comes to enforcing European legislation, which is, of course, more stringent than the minimum UN legislation. What we can achieve from this is that, based on idealistic notions of being the strictest, we do not really just place the order in Sweden, Germany, France or – as I understood it – the most topical when it came to the Westfold company Rheinmetall – with a competitor in Spain, who clearly complies with both the strict arms export regulation of the EU and the UN.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e4823	I am also not going to conduct proceedings from the pulpit, but there are some fundamental points that need to be mentioned. Moving responsibility for the export control to the Ministry of Defence believes that I am a very bad idea, all the time the Ministry of Defence through the triangular cooperation also appears to be the largest customer of the Norwegian defence industry. The legitimacy in this area is probably best ensured by the fact that it is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that has the constitutional responsibility. Then it's probably not like there's tight shots, that you don't talk between those departments or in government. That's probably the way it was when Tybring-Gjedde worked in the department. This is information that goes between, and the initiatives of closer Nordic cooperation and of closer European cooperation in these areas are very good, and things are happening in that area, so that's not where the matter lies. But the proposal to transfer that function to the Ministry of Defence is, in my view, a bad proposal for the whole export control.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e4830	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e4847	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e4854	I want to start by thanking the Committee for good cooperation. With this proposition, Stortinget grants permission to launch four new investment projects, one changes the size of another, one adjusts the framework conditions for a shootout field, and gives Defence permission to accept a gift to complete the financing of a pre-project. Furthermore, there is an information to the Stortinget about five other things. For most of these projects, the Committee is in agreement with its comments, and I do not go into them any more, but find it right to go into two projects: the F-35 project and NATO's assessment of Norway. Project 7720 F-35 includes upgrades by block 4 in the period 2025 up to and including 2030. The recommended cost frame for the project is $6.34 billion. EUR 2021 including VAT, implementation costs and a provision for uncertainty. There are large sums of money involved, and the Central Party will stress the importance of the government doing what they can to ensure that this will also benefit the Norwegian defence industry, cf. the previous matter that we debated in the Chamber. The biggest concern is that the investment in combat aircraft will help to strengthen the Norwegian defence industry and secure value creation and jobs in small and large enterprises throughout the country. It has been expressed by the Committee in a number of respects, asking for a majority of the Committee, consisting of the Centre Party, the Labour Party and the Advance Party, a delegation from the Government on Industrial Opportunities associated with the planned upgrade of the F-35. The upgrade project is a very large investment project involving a significant increase in the purchase costs of F-35. The majority assume that, in line with the ambitions of the F-35 investment decision in spring 2012, the government continues to assume that the F-35 upgrade programme will provide value creation in Norwegian industry of the same scale as the cost of acquisition. The next thing I want to focus on, is NATO's assessment of Norway. NATO is conducting, as part of NATO Defence Planning Process, NDPP, regular assessments of the individual ally's defence plans and efforts. The assessment was submitted at 19 points. It is serious that NATO writes that it is uncertain whether Norway at all will be able to deliver NATO's main wisdom – the requested fully-configured brigade. The long-term plan adopted by the Government in 2020, supported by the Progress Party, does not enable Norway to meet the NATO commitments. According to NATO, in the land area of Norway, it fulfils at least its NATO obligations. The fact that the land authority has been deprived of its priorities is a concern for both this and the previous long-term plan. In point 9, it says, among other things. following: ‘While Norway’s plans for the modernisation of fighting platforms increase the army’s ability to manoeuvre, fire and protective functions, it is clear that without increasing the number and firepower of the storm armored tanks These capabilities will strongly delimit the fighting forces to the brigade, blocking a drastic change in plans and priorities, and making it impossible for Norway to deliver the requested, a fully capable, heavy infantry brigade with corresponding support from 2024 or even 2026, the first capacity priority agreed for Norway by Allied Defence Ministers.’ [[...]] There's reason to worry when a person reads this, and one shouldn't say what we said, but the jam is the temptation when a person reads it. This is the basis for NATO's greatest unrest, especially since Norway is a possible front-line state. But even when it comes to both marine and air defence, there is a concern. The Central Party expects the Minister of Defence in his statement to give answers to how and when the Government intends to reach and discharge NATO commitments.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e4883	I refer to the statements made by the rapporteur and to the comments made by the Labour Party on the matter, but also, like the representative Navarsete just mentioned, to the perspectives that are linked to NATO's assessments of Norway. As Navarsete also said, the most critical comments from NATO are about the status of the Army, which unfortunately during this government has experienced a down-priority that all the parties in the opposition have pointed out at many cross-roads for a long time. There are constant delays in important investments and choices, which have been the critical points that have been discussed very clearly here, and which it is very relevant to address in the context of what we are dealing with. Then, as the representative Navarsete was inside, I would also like to bring this up with the tanks. I just fill in a little bit of what the representative Navarsete said. On 16 November last year the Ministry of Defence published a news article on the acquisition of new tanks. The first sentence of the article contains up to several factual errors: ‘The decision of the Landmaktuðringen decided to launch an acquisition project for tanks to be submitted for approval in Stortinget in 2021.’ [[...]] Firstly, in December 2017, the Stortinget’s clear decision was that the Army should have modern war vehicles available from 2019, i.e. in advance. We all remember this well. The Minister of Defence's own party actively participated in the design of that great decision, but the Minister of Defense has probably chosen not to care about what the Storting had adopted. The November news article last year also states that the acquisition project for tanks is to be submitted for approval in Stortinget in 2021. Then I say, like the representative of Navarsete, but also on his own basis: now this period of expansion is going improperly towards the end, one must be able to say, and I would therefore ask that the Minister of Defence now in his speech clearly respond when in 2021 he plans to present the acquisition of a tank for decision in Stortinget. I think the Council of State owes it to the Storting, considering the history of this matter. It's in many ways the acute part of that discussion, because there's a lot of disagreement else, of course, about the message that has been presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e4899	First of all, I would like to say to Mr Kolberg and the representative of Mr Navarsete that, in connection with the NATO report relating to the previous long-term plan and the country administration and the indications given by NATO, address the current long-term plan, among other things. full-mechanisation of Brig N, Northern Norway Brigade. And the one who's not completely historyless knows that there was a reason for attacking the run-down defense in such a way as you did – you had to set up the structure you had, and fill it with maintenance and spare parts and spares to get the system that was left up to a minimum. Then you can start practicing more, and then you can start with new investments. That is what is being done in the new long-term plan, including: With a new battalion. Investments in the Defence continue with unreserved force. My calculator showed the nice sum of approx. 10 B.C.E. kr contained in investment projects in this proposition. It deals with important investments in both South and North Norway. The purpose of the Novik project is to ensure that Norway and NATO have reliable VLF capacity for the submarines. As we know, we are now going to buy four new submarines. Here, too, a buy-back regime is to be established, so that it drips into the national supplier industry of the project. A large majority in the United Kingdom have argued that Norway should acquire up to 52 F-35 fighter aircraft. The first planes landed on Norwegian soil in 2015, and in 2024 the last six planes will be in place. F-35 is the most advanced man has created with wings, rudders and tails. This will constitute the main battle system in the Defence for the next decades and is the main investment in Defence. Aeroplanes will be more or less subject to a continuous upgrade over their lifetime, and here the Norwegian air defence is well ahead. The way we have extended the lifetime of today's F-16 and kept them up to date is actually an exemplary example of how to take care of military material. The Ørland runway was extended in 2017. The certification of the runway was given temporarily, subject to conditions to correct some deviations along the original runway. The remedial project referred to in this proposition includes the replacement of masses and the strengthening of the carrier layer, so that large aeroplanes can be taken down without having to apply for a separate exemption from the Air Safety Authority. The government has reversed the decline of defence for many years. All defenses are strengthened. New combat systems and new material are rolled in. This is particularly marked in North Norway, and not least in Finnmark. Finnmark National Defense has been restored. A new cavaleribatalion is created on the Porsangermo. The garrison in Varanger is equipped with new and heavier materials, and the HV is reinforced. Our ability to deter and defend Finnmark is getting better. Porsangermoen was Norway's most modern camp in the 1980s. After having been in a mill bag with little activity for many years, there is now a need to upgrade the camp to a new and much higher activity. Good housing conditions are essential for recruiting and retaining defence personnel. The government follows this up and provides for a significant renewal of dwellings and lay-offs on GP. 19 new homes, 72 new command quarters and new crew play to house 192 soldiers are now under construction. There is a matter in this proposition that may appear anonymous, but if you read a little more carefully, there is a matter of reflection and a matter of taking considerable lessons from. This concerns the case of changing the framework conditions for the Eastern Region. The strict conditions of use and the conditions of use laid down in the field of fire in 1999 have not been good. It has limited the possibilities of defence to an excessive extent and has undermined the possibility of education and training. The reason why I say this is that when we are now in a period of building up the defense and many municipalities banks and want more defence activity, we should also think a little further forward, so that we do not impose such strict restrictions on the next crossroads through regulation plans and concessions that there are problems in getting the effect of the investments we put down by the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e4918	The Progress Party is concerned that investment in new material for the Defence shall provide Norwegian industry with jobs and value creation. In particular, it is important to allow small and medium-sized enterprises to become involved in industrial cooperation projects. This will in the long term also be improved through the European Defence Fund, EDF, which will involve more SMEs in future projects. This will be important for Norwegian industry and contribute to the development of more high-tech jobs. The major Norwegian defence industry actors often act as incubators and involve SMEs in their projects, which is good for all parties. With regard to the large acquisitions in the Defence, such as F-35 and new submarines, it is important to facilitate the involvement and support of the Norwegian industry by the Ministry of Defence, so that the highest possible value creation can take place in Norway. Of course, there is also a clear expectation that industrial cooperation will result in similar value creation in Norway as the cost of the project. Large acquisition projects often last over several years and involve a further number of years of operation, maintenance and upgrades. It is therefore important that the government facilitates the participation of Norwegian industry in all activities throughout the life phase of the material. It is quite natural, in the opinion of the Progress Party, that upgrades and other developments over the lifetime of the material also generate Norwegian value creation. Experience is not always the greatest purchase price when we see material life as a whole. If the government does not require Norwegian industry to be part of the upgrade and maintenance process, Norwegian industry will miss out on major opportunities for further activity. It is also in the defence interest that Norwegian industry is part of this, as it is important to have expertise in this area in Norway. In an increasingly uncertain security policy situation, it is essential for our own preparedness that we have the best possible ability to keep everything material operational. Much of this has been mentioned in previous cases that have been dealt with in Stortinget, but it is nevertheless important to stress this again in this case. Norway is part of NATO and therefore has its obligations towards its allies. NATO has made some negative comments on Norway’s defence priorities. It is also the other speakers who have pointed out from the pulpit earlier in the debate. Especially within the Maritime Defense, the Army and the Air Force, there are gaps in capacity in the coming years. Of course, this is not lucky, but the new long-term plan will improve the situation. But we don't get to the finish line for the first four years. The long-term assumptions may change rapidly. It is therefore important for the government to take into account that it is possible to change priorities both economically and organisationally, by coming to Stortinget with a new case. If it turns out that the defence must be strengthened, of course, the Advance Party will not oppose this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e4937	There's a big black hole in defense planning, and that hole is called F-35. Over the last few years, we have received many warnings about the problems of this acquisition – from the National Audit Office, from US congressional hearings and from our own government, which have seen the costs of the project running smoothly. Over the last few years, the cost of the new fighter aircraft has increased and the state budget for 2021 has estimated nearly 100 million. kr. It's miles away from what we were once told. Over the last few years, SV has tried to put this problem on the agenda. We have proposed looking at the possibilities for reductions and getting facts and numbers on the table. We have done that because the acquisition of combat aircraft is going to shape the framework conditions for our defence and defense to a large extent in the years to come. I'm always just as surprised that the majority in this room have so little thought about what these exceedances actually mean for the rest of the Defense, who have to live with the burden of cost and unforeseeableness, and for all those who wonder if we're actually going to join the Hour when new giant exceedances become known. The SV took up the cost of the long-term defence sector plan last autumn and promoted a number of different proposals to get costs under control. There was no interest in it among those who entered in the fall of 2019 to complete the order of the 52 fighter aircraft. SV is concerned that we should have a realistic and predictable defence planning. Unfortunately, the uncertainties surrounding these acquisitions make it very difficult. It is a historical loss of the bulk of the population not to go in for an examination of the fighter flight purchase, as SV has previously suggested. The SV is therefore promoting two proposals today. The aim of them is to pause new approvals of investments on the fighter aircraft program until we actually have facts and numbers on the table, until the government has taken the trouble to go through the entire acquisition and present a realistic plan and an honest and open presentation of the acquisition as it stands today. We owe it to both the Defense and most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e4950	Would the representative like to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e4955	I want to discuss the proposals SV is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e4960	The representative, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e4965	It is important for the government to follow up the priorities of the defence structure, which were agreed upon by the Stortingen in the process of examining the current long-term defence sector plan in 2020. The proposals presented in Prop. 123 S for 2020-2021, is in line with the decisions taken at the time. The proposal proposes the approval of investments in property, building and civil engineering for about 8 billion. kr. In addition, the government proposes to increase an ongoing investment project by 1.45 billion. kr. When Stortinget decided that Norway's next fighter aircraft would be F-35, it was based on the aircraft's superior operational capability and the lowest lifetime costs for fifth generation fighter aircraft. The acquisition of the aeroplanes is progressing well. Fighting lights also provide both performance and cost. I want to go so far as to say that getting projects of this size has delivered as well as this, although the Korona makes the next three planes not delivered in May, but in August. Superior fighter aircraft cost, and the whole system needs to be further developed to maintain its superiority. That is why I am promoting a project today to upgrade the F-35. Through joint efforts in the partnership, we will ensure that F-35 is at least as potent in 2030 as it is now. I'm proud of how Norwegian industry has developed the Joint Strike Missile missiles. I am also proud of how high-tech contracts have been won in industrial cooperation, contracts that bring economic and technological benefits, as well as increased competence. And I'm absolutely sure that even if upgrades are made for operational reasons, they will also pay off industrially and ensure us good value creation over the lifetime of the planes. With regard to NATO’s assessment of Norway, I must be allowed to draw attention to the prerequisites for this assessment. NATO Capability Objective 2017 for Norway was decided following the treatment of Prop by Stortinget. 151 S for 2015–2016, Fighting force and sustainability, and Prop. 2 S for 2017-2018, Further development of the Army and the Heimevernet. Although several of the areas are taken into account, NATO’s demands, especially for the land domain, were not part of the previous long-term plan. The objectives were fully addressed in the development of Prop. 14 S for 2020-2021, Defence capability – preparedness. NATO’s assessment of Norway has also been made prior to the treatment of Prop by Storting. 14 S and does not reflect the long-term bets. It is therefore essential to point out that NATO has not yet assessed whether Prop. 14 S indicates that Norway will achieve the Capability Goals, neither those in force from 2017 nor those in force from the autumn of 2021. This is a long process. NATO will first assess this at the next review, and the result will be in the autumn of 2022. But with what we know, we are making a good deal of effort through the long-term plan, with the expectations NATO has for Norway in terms of capacity. In conclusion, I would like to say that I am very pleased that the Committee endorses the government's proposal on investment in defence. Projects are all important contributions to maintaining a credible and relevant defence for a more demanding security policy period. Then I must be allowed to speak a little bit to the representatives of Kolberg and Navarsete about the country power: we are expanding the country power to Finnmark now. We're expanding the geographical area of responsibility, we're introducing artillery, combat air protection, and we're going to buy new tanks. To the representative of Kolberg, who says that we have said that we will deliver it to Stortinget in the course of 2021 – and now we will soon be done with 2021: No, there is also a harvest session, and we will come to Stortinget with the matter during the autumn. The brigades are fully mechanized. That was a demand from NATO. So it happens, and this is an armament under construction and in a very developmental way. It is not a weapon that is treated in a voteable manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e4989	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e4994	This question has been raised in the past, but I still want to deal with it now, as we have a discussion about F-35 in this case. The Air Force estimate is that each flight time for F-35 fighter aircraft costs NOK 110 000, but according to the defense magazine Jane’s, the sum may be close to NOK 300,000. On April 5, this year, the defense of the Evening Post said that they don't know if the U.S. bill of use is different in the U.S. than in Norway. In the United States, there is a more reasonable option. Chief of Staff of the US Air Force, Charles Q. Brown Jr., says that costs are too high. One doesn't run Ferrari to work every day, one of his users on Sundays, is his pronunciation. Has the Ministry of Defence now, when we arrive at June, estimated why the United States and Norway have different calculation methods, and whether it is still right that it costs what the Ministry of Defence said earlier that it should cost to fly F-35?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e5001	We've answered the previous question as well. When the Air Force calculates the cost of flying F-35, they calculate the cost of operation and maintenance for one hour. It amounts to something over NOK 110 000. The background to the hours worked in the United States is not only the operation and maintenance of the aircraft, it's also the costs of base, the costs of ground crew, the costs of all the facilities around the fighter aircraft program they have for the F-35. So it's like comparing apples and pears. The Air Force is still insisting that the calculations they have are correct for the cost of flying a Norwegian F-35 aircraft for an hour. Then I register that the U.S. says they're going to search with lights and lights to do things cheaper. Well, the entire fighter aircraft program spends a lot of energy doing things cheaper, and they've done it too. So far, they've saved 8 billion. NOK in relation to the forecasts that were available when we started.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e5008	I thank you for your answer. It's exciting to follow forward to see what's happening to this. The United Kingdom is now considering reducing the purchase of F-35 due to costs. When the purchase of the F-35 was made, it was said that the acquisitions would provide value creation in Norwegian industry to the same extent as the costs of the purchase. Today, on our table here we have a case that goes on further upgrade programs and whether they should have the same terms and conditions attached to them. It is important that an investment project as extensive as we are dealing with today be built after the same reading. Can the Council confirm that it is still so that we get a value creation in Norwegian industry, i.e. a repurchase agreement corresponding to the costs?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e5017	The combat lighting program is a little different than the traditional repurchase agreements, but it is an agreement that Norwegian industry is allowed to compete for the jobs, and they do so today. There is nothing in this upgrade program that limits the opportunities for Norwegian industry to do so. Norwegian industry has been good. They've competed for big jobs in the fighter aircraft program now, and we assume that they're going to compete for more jobs in the fighter aircraft program in the future as they acquire knowledge and competence about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e5022	Of course, it was unexplained of me to say that 2021 is almost over, so I admit to the Minister of Defence the pleasure of mentioning. But what is the reality of this issue is quite serious. Does what the Minister of Defense said in his intervention now mean that the next big deal can wait for the Minister of Defense, if he still sits there, to promote this matter for the Storting during the harvest session, as he now suggests? Can we get a clear answer to that?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e5027	First, I must be allowed to spend some of the time pointing back at the post to Kolberg. Because in 2017, we looked at a solution where we could modernise part of the tanks by leasing some from Germany through the operation we were with them in Lithuania. That did not work, so when we made the new decision, we decided to buy new tanks for the Norwegian army. That's what we're doing. We've been in the market, and we've come so far that now it's about a Korean supplier or a German supplier. We're going to have those things clear so we can deliver a case to Stortinget in the course of 2021, so that the Stortinget can decide what kind of tanks we're going to have. The Minister of Defence has planned to continue in the position – since Kolberg was concerned about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e5034	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e5041	A good thing cannot be repeated too often, so it is tempting to remind the representative Kolberg that despite the fact that new tanks are not in place – the old tank project was scrapped, and a whole new concept and new tanks were put into place – a new artillery has been purchased. We have to remember that despite the fact that tanks are a very important combat system in the army, it is the artillery that is the largest loss-provoking weapon system. War games and warriors show that approx. 70 pst. the losses on the part of the enemy are caused by artillery. So we probably have purely military strategically, as well as the political, priorities quite rationally. But that's not what I was going to say. I was actually going to say the following: I have a need to make a clarification to the government parties' remarks about what we write about the state budget and increases. The sum of $3.5 billion. kr, to which reference is made, is the nominal and not the actual increase in the budget. As explained on page 25 of the budget proposal, the government proposed a real LTP increase of 2.113 billion. NOK 2021. In addition, the budgetary costs of 2021 will be increased by the impact of the renewed annual works adopted during the examination of the long-term defence sector’s last harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e5048	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e5065	At the request of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, there will be no replication, and those who draw on the voice list in addition to the time allocated will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e5072	The European Defence Fund – European Defence Fund, EDF – is established as an EU programme for the period 2021 to 2027. In the context of the examination of the long-term plan of defence in winter, a broad majority of the Stortinget agreed that Norway should participate in EDF from its start-up in 2021. In order to allow Norway to participate from the start, the consent of the Stortinget is requested before the final adoption of the Regulation by the EU and before a decision has been taken in the EEA Committee. The Committee has been in agreement with this, and it is behind us that the decisions must be put in place before we take a parliamentary summer holiday. I would like to thank the Committee for constructive and good cooperation in this matter, which is of great importance to Norway, and I note with some wonder that the Central Party and SV will send the matter back to the government. Participation in the fund from the outset is of major importance for Norway and the Norwegian defence industry. The Norwegian defence industry is important for the country's overall defence capabilities. The fact that we have a significant production of materials within our own borders means a lot in an emergency context, and on a daily basis it means jobs, knowledge development and knowledge transfer between sectors. We have every reason to be proud of the forward-looking and innovative defence industry. Of course, there is always a fundamental cross of thought in any production and use of material, but unfortunately we do not live in a non-profit world, and most of us are happy that we are able to defend ourselves with our allies. Our defence industry is highly export-oriented and, of course, subject to strictly regulated conditions, with Europe as a significant market. For the Norwegian defence industry, this is therefore an important measure to ensure access to the European market, and it is also a positive signal to our allies. Participation in the fund is far from free, but we have access to interaction and access to the European market, and we believe it is worth the price. Expenditure resulting from Norway’s participation in 2021 is covered within the current budgetary framework of the Ministry of Defence. In addition, from 2022 onwards, the government will return to the expenditure of the annual submissions of the State budget. The Committee has also noted that the implementation of the Regulation does not entail the need for legislative or regulatory changes, only this consent given by the Stortinget today after all the sunmarks. I recommend the committee's recommendation, which is also part of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e5089	Norwegian security policy needs more legs to stand on. Norway should build partnerships and cooperation where we can, to complement the NATO alliance and prepare to deal with as many threats and scenarios as possible. The bond of our European neighbours and allies should be strengthened. In that case, it should be a matter of course that Norway participates in the European Defence Union. This case has a history that we all know about, and there is reason to note that the government almost had to be pressured into participating in this cooperation. Last year we had several laps also in this Chamber about Norwegian participation in the defence fund, when the right-wing government refused and explained away. In the state budget for 2021, there was no provision for Norwegian participation in the defence fund, but fortunately the government, as I said, was pressured into place through the treatment of the defence plan last autumn. At this point, I will actually recognise the representative Tybring-Gjedde for the effort to press the government to get in place and ensure that Norway and the Norwegian defence industry participate in this important cooperation. It is important that Norway is right from the start in such a new cooperation. The trains go and cooperative formations are established, and then it is necessary that we are too fully involved if no Norwegian actors are to stand on the platform, as it is called, or stay outside. Then I register that there are representatives who will send this matter back to the government because the matter has not yet been formally dealt with in the EEA Committee. I'll warn you against that. One thing is that this issue could have been avoided if the government had been on the ball from the very beginning and had been in favour of Norwegian participation in the defence fund. But another fact is that Norwegian self-determination must mean that the Norwegian magnificence can take decisions on this cooperation that we want to participate in, regardless of what the EEA Committee in Brussels has taken in terms of decisions. On this basis, the Labour Party would say that we actively support participation in the defence fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e5098	Participation in the EU programme is an important part of the government’s European policy. One of the new programmes is the European Defence Fund. For the Norwegian defence industry, the Defence Fund is an important measure to ensure access to the European market. In addition, it gives us the opportunity to enter into a multi-national European research and industrial cooperation where Norwegian research environments and the Norwegian research industry are closely integrated. More than 30 pst. the export of defence equipment from Norway goes to EU countries. The defence industry is trading about 16 billion dollars. kr, and 70 pst. This goes to customers outside Norway. Europe needs stronger defence, but Europe needs to get more out of the defence budgets. The defence systems are very fragmented and do not interact well enough with each other. Where Europe has 178 main battle systems, the United States has 30. Multinational cooperation is necessary in order to move forward in this area. Norway has a self-interest in participating in integrated defence cooperation in different areas. Therefore Norway is now also participating in PESCO cooperation. Norway shall cooperate with the United States and Canada with the EU on enhanced military mobility in Europe. It is a bit alarming that it is the Centre Party and the SV who have found each other in this matter – two parties that have historically stood far apart in Norwegian defence policy. After all, the centre party likes to appear as a pre-war and industry-friendly party. In this case, we again see that the anxiety-stricken relationship between the Centre Party and the EU is troubling Norwegian jobs, which in many cases have been located in the districts, for example. in Kongsberg, in Raufoss, and in Tjeldsund.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e5109	The Progress Party was a driving force for Norway to join the European Defence Fund, EDF, when we negotiated the long-term defence plan last year, and we are pleased that there was a solid majority for this. Participation here will help to enable the Norwegian defence industry and other relevant actors to participate in European, multinational cooperation on defence capabilities involving technology at all stages of development. In the context of the examination of that long-term plan, it became clear that Norway would be part of EDF from the outset. That is why we have this matter today, and that is good news for Norwegian industry. The Progress Party has had good dialogue with several actors in the Norwegian defence industry in integrating EDF as part of a new long-term plan. It became early clear to the Progress Party that EDF would be essential for the Norwegian defence industry to continue to have Europe as a market. If Norway had remained outside, it would be very difficult for Norwegian operators to enter the supply chain and it would be almost impossible to participate in new technology and new material development projects. With the connection to EDF, all possibilities are open. EDF’s focus on greater inclusion of small and medium-sized enterprises is very important for Norwegian industry. Participation in research and development will be easier for these enterprises and will lead to access to larger markets and opportunities for further growth and development. For the defence, EDF will be important because joint development of new material will lead to lower costs and better interaction between allies. It will strengthen Europe’s ability to ensure its own security and to develop common strategies. EDF is also an important part of the work on the future EU defence and security policy strategy. Norwegian entry into EDF will be historically important both for the Norwegian defence industry and for Norwegian defence and security policy. A new era is now under way, in which common European security interests manifest themselves in the common development of both policies and materials. This is important in the security challenging times we are living in today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e5120	The central party has not decided whether Norway should join the defence fund, but what we do is to distance the government from taking shortcuts and not dealing with how these kinds of cases are usually to be dealt with. For what we have seen in the 2020-2021 process of enlargement is that the government has promoted a number of different issues for consideration relating to the adoption of EU regulations, without the issues being dealt with in the EEA Committee. This concerns issues relating to different EU programmes and EEA cases, many different issues, including the European Defence Fund. We believe that matters should be dealt with in the EEA Committee before they come to Stortinget, because if they are dealt with now, it will lead to the next big deal. It seems that the government is busy making binding leadership before getting any new government to the harvest. It would limit the economic space to the Stortinget if the government were to get through the circumvention of the decision-making process they have set up in so many different fields. That is why we believe that the matter should be sent back to the government, and we propose it in the vote. I would like to address the proposal of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e5127	The representative Emile Enger Mehl has drawn up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e5132	The establishment of the European Defence Fund is an important initiative to strengthen European defence cooperation. Several members of the Committee have referred here to the negotiations on the action plan and the starting point of government. Let me just be brief enough to say that I'm very pleased with the result we came up with. This is an important work. The starting point for the establishment of EDF is the recognition both by the European Commission and by the Member States that European countries have too little left for their defence investments. The European defence market is characterised by a diversity of suppliers of the same or similar material. This leads to little rational use of resources. Not only are European defence investments less effective than they could have been with better cooperation, but the European NATO countries are also using less defence than their alliance partner in the United States. EDF will contribute to addressing both of these challenges through financial instruments that stimulate cooperation in the development of defence equipment. The effort by EDF is in addition to the national and industrial efforts. As a result, the total effort will increase. Participation in EDF will improve access to the European defence market for the Norwegian defence industry. Participation will also enable Norwegian research communities in the defence sector and beyond to cooperate with European partners. EDF is one of several defence initiatives that the EU has taken in recent years. This is part of a broader drive to strengthen defence policy and industrial cooperation. And I fully agree with Mr Kolberg that it is right and important here that Norway also broadens its defence cooperation. Finally, to the proposal of the Centre Party and that with shortcuts: I have great respect for the procedural aspects of how we should manage our relationship with the EU and our relationship with the EEA Agreement. Just this decision came as a clear decision by the Stortinget, a decree to the government to ensure participation in the European Defence Fund. That is why I think it was right to take it to Stortinget now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e5143	The representative of Kolberg praised the representative of Tybring-Gjedde to also support this setting. I think that the members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, who have been for this improvement, could also be incorporated in all courtesy, which took place quite correctly after the budget was delivered to the Stortinget. This is a sign that the Stortinget can also break through, and we are pleased with the broad consensus that Kolberg's contributions also bear the bid. It is an important decision for Norway. Participation in EDF is important for maintaining the Norwegian defence industry and Norwegian research communities in line with national defence and security objectives and needs. It is already described in the previous case we had – as it is. The more problematic it becomes to ask how the opposition is not related. Of course, we're used to the SV being against, but the Center Party is in the process of reorientating itself. At the national meeting, they found the time to distance themselves from NATO's strategic concept and go in favour of something that on paper is a ban on nuclear weapons, which cannot be realised, but puts a great pressure on democratic countries and alliances to unilaterally get rid of the only thing that can be deterrent if you are not willing to use much larger parts of the common resources of Defence. That is why the question must be to the Central Party, which is also de facto against today – it may be that they want to hang it in a formality that a case has not been dealt with in the European Committee, but there has never been any decisive objection to the Central Party before. So the question is, since sending it back to the government basically is a postponement proposal, how they will deal with the final vote. Because when the postponement proposal, or the transmission proposal, has fallen, they have to decide on: How do the Senterpartiet vote? To vote against this today means that Norway is coming out crooked and perhaps not into this programme, and it is a very serious backtrace. The centre party is not currently reliable in defence policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e5154	One would well feel honoured that the representative Tetzschner used most of his post on the Center Party – the Center Party, which is really a defence party, which allowed far more to the Defense in our alternative budget than the Right did, and the government did. What's important for me to stress, and the reason why I take the floor, is that it's not the representative Tetzschner who can decide what the Center Party thinks about this matter. The centre party has asked that she be sent back to the government, we have not said whether we are in favour or against. In previous comments we have said that we are not for this matter now. We'll see a little bit more about what this developer is going to be, and then we'll get back to it. But I'm going to ask myself that Tetzschner or other right-wing representatives decide what the Center Party is going in favour of and not. And we're going to be able to figure that out. The defense knows that the Center Party is too small. I'm a little bit more uncertain about whether they mean about right.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e5162	There is then no one who has thus protested against the Center Party, especially under the leadership that has been represented by Liv Signe Navarsete, as I have heard in many contexts as the new edition of SV, but we have then noted that there are great tensions in the Center Party – depending on whether you hear Ola Borten Moe or Liv Signe Navarsete. It is not, of course, that we should dictate the Centre Party – here represented by excellent representatives – but I think the Stortinget, and also the Norwegian public, would like to be informed about what the Centre Party is doing when it is not agreed to send this matter back to the government. Because it's a procedural question that, because of the voting order, is decided first. Will they then vote against the final vote? I think that will be quite consistent with the tone that Liv Signe Navarsete has now for four years estimated in this room and in the committee. I'm not so sure of the new representative. It shall be exciting to hear and to follow the development of the Centre Party at all. However, the national meeting also carries out bids for a party that in other areas tries to appear to be more middle-looking – although it is not so easy to see – but in defence policy they have been on the glide for a while. We have been able to see that from the orchestral space here in Stortinget. I believe that there will be a decisive lacmus test this evening if they, after the transmission proposal to the government probably falls, will vote against the decisive vote. It is a sign that they do not want to enter the European Defence Fund, which others have described the benefits of, and which fortunately a larger majority seems to be in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e5169	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e5186	At the request of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, there will be no replication, and those who draw on the voice list in addition to the time allocated will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e5193	It's now approx. 20 years since Stortinget first decided that the acquisition of the fighter aircraft should be prepared. Since then, the Ministry of Defence has kept Stortinget informed about the acquisition process and the phase-in of the new aircraft. To date, Norway has received 28 top modern F-35. From 2022, part of these aeroplanes shall be stationed on the forward fighter base of Evenes and the aeroplanes shall have reached full operational capacity by 2025. Then they will also be equipped with the Norwegian-developed JSM missile, which will be an integral part of the aircraft and provide the Defense with a formidable new combat force. The F-35 acquisition is the largest investment ever made by mainland Norway. The state of the cost development of this project has been continuously orientated by the Government to the Storting and this acquisition is also separated as a separate chapter of the State budget. The fighting project carries out annual economic uncertainty analyses, which form the basis for reporting costs to Stortinget. Norway also cooperates closely with our partner countries to maintain control of costs. The acquisition is accompanied by Norwegian representatives and is subject to ongoing review by the US authorities as well as by the US National Audit Office. The Norwegian National Audit Office is part of a group where experience and audit findings are shared among partner countries. The National Audit Office examined the acquisition of F-16 in its time. The audit was presented in 1999, i.e. after the acquisition of F-16 had been completed. A specific examination of the acquisition process and the basis for the selection of new fighter aircraft, as proposed in this proposal for a representative, are currently not available.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e5204	The US fighter plane F-35 is Norway's most expensive individual tax funded purchases ever. In connection with St.prp. No 36 for 2008-2009, New Fighting Aircraft to the Defense, Stortinget decided to open negotiations to acquire new fighter aircraft for the defence of type F-35. Several media and defence analysts have claimed that the Stortinget was led behind the light and did not receive all relevant information before the decision was taken. Eurofighter withdrew from the competition, and both the Swedish authorities and Saab have protested at the government's analyses to Stortinget. In 2010, Aftenposten referred to documents from the US Embassy in Norway — published by WikiLeaks — which revealed that the United States secretly put massive pressure on Norwegian authorities to select F-35. There are therefore compelling reasons to ask questions in the tendering process leading up to the choice of F-35 as defence fighter aircraft, and whether Stortinget was properly and adequately informed about all relevant matters. That's this Red now suggests to review. The purchase was justified by the fact that F-35 best met Norway’s operational and technical performance requirements and had the lowest investment and lifetime costs. But the reality is a completely different one. The U.S. National Audit has pointed to parts that are broken and aircraft that remain on the ground. The cost of living of the Norwegian aircraft, which was estimated at 145 billion in 2009. kr, has exploded and is now estimated at 350 bn. kr. The United Kingdom is expected to significantly reduce the number of aeroplanes. The same could happen in the United States, where the Air Force is looking for alternatives to F-35. The U.S. National Audit says the operating costs have to be halved in order for the United States to be able to operate the planned number of flights, which is completely unrealistic. The same problems are likely to apply in Norway. Red is the only party on Stortinget that has consistently said no to buy F-35, an extremely expensive aircraft that is more adapted to participation in an US-led attack war than defence of Norway. But we also expect other parties to realize that when there is evidence of foreign influence in Norway's most expensive tax-funded purchases, and when costs explode and aircraft remain on the ground, we need to investigate what went wrong. I bring this to the attention of Red in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e5217	The representative Seher Aydar then drew up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e5222	F-35 is the largest project in our defenses and many other nations. It is natural that such a large project is correctly described in both Norwegian and international press. In order to ensure access to objective information, it has therefore been important to document progress, uncertainties and to present status and important decisions to the Storting. The acquisition of F-35 is not only the largest project in the defense, but perhaps the best documented one. En route, all important decision-making points have been subject to both internal and external quality assurance. The national audit has continuously revised the management and areas and the issues they have identified — it is important to revise them. These have been good processes that have not only underlined the quality of the work done but have also resulted in improvements in control mechanisms along the way. The project has established a robust internal control system and annual uncertainty analyses are carried out on the basis of which Stortinget is reported. In order to clarify this reporting, the acquisition of fighting aircraft has been separated into a separate chapter of the State budget. As regards the basis for the acquisition of F-35, it is at least as well documented as the acquisition process. The basis is based on an ambition for operational capability adopted in Stortinget. The level of ambition rests on the fact that fighter aircraft have a number of concrete missions throughout the spectrum of peace, crisis and war. These missions are again derived from the current defence ambition, and there is a close and direct link between the ambition and fleet size of the fighter aircraft. In order of priority, the choice of fighter aircraft was based on the candidate’s ability to meet Norway’s operational requirements, costs and opportunities for participation in the Norwegian defence industry. The evaluation was carried out in independent groups in order to avoid mutual influence. The group consisted of both operational and technical personnel and logistic staff. There were always at least two, but usually five to six experts in each subject area. The evaluation was externally quality assurance and expressed the confidence that the establishment of the overall requirements for future flight capacity and the evaluation of the candidates concerned were carried out in a professionally and ethically sound manner, which gave confidence that the candidate assessment was in accordance with the premises of the Stortinget and the Government. This evaluation provided a clear picture that F-35 was the best choice operationally and costly. I would also like to point out that although there is no traditional repurchase in the F-35 programme, our cooperation with Norwegian industry has so far resulted in contracts worth about 10 billion. kr. Now that the aeroplanes are in operation and have completed their first operational mission, the ability of the F-35 to comply with the Norwegian requirements is demonstrated with all clarity. I am of the opinion that both the basis of the election and the process of acquiring the F-35 have been thoroughly explained to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e5237	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e5254	At the request of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, there will be no replication, and those who draw on the voice list in addition to the time allocated will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e5261	It is a majority vote that the proposal of the representatives, as it stands, is not adopted. But we will already say that it is in agreement with the loose proposal by Morten Wold, which he will explain for himself. We realize that the matter with Tollbugata 10 does not end with this. That is the way it will be, because we cannot control the country through a series of Document 8 proposals. So let's start with what we have in common. The Committee agrees with the proposers that the Old War School in Tollbugata 10 is a very important cultural memory and that the important history of the building, in particular as a military historical cultural memory and as its first higher education institution, coincides with an era of Norwegian national construction and subsequent independence. That was also the background to the input made during the budgetary procedure. We note that the department followed up the signals from Stortinget. They postponed the sale process and then awaited the Foundation’s proposal on how to transfer the property, and looked at financing options and whether further operations could be economically sustainable. I have also noticed that the Council of State, in its commentary letter to the proposal at the hearing of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, acknowledges – let's say – in the second section: ‘A full rehabilitation for further use in the defence sector is estimated to cost around DKK 350 million. The cultural historical value of the property is one of the factors that has been assessed against alternative benefits that can be achieved by applying a similar amount to actions in the sector that will increase operational capacity.» It always shows the balance in which the Ministry of Defence has stood every year – more money for what is the main concern of the Defence Department, or taking good care of the klenodies. The result we see. Then we have to get out of this, because the world isn't so ideally designed that you can give away a property with a maintenance run of 350 million. kr. It's not just for the defence's old purpose that it needs repair for this amount, it'll probably be an amount for any purpose if we're to bring life into this building. We won't let go of the case. We consider Mr Wold's resolution to be something that can also be worked on in the future, but we do not believe, on the other hand, that the very detailed indication of what is going to happen by the proposers is favourable to the state's position in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e5277	I join a lot of the previous speaker said, I just want to go a little bit into the history here. Last autumn, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Affairs was involved in cultural interaction. The four bourgeois parties went in to transfer the Old War School in Oslo to a non-profit foundation. There was a broad commitment and several parties to saving the Old War School from being sold to commercial actors. The Progress Party considered that this building has such an important cultural and historical significance that the public has to take responsibility for preserving it for the future, and worked actively to find a solution. This is important for Oslo, the construction is important for Oslo, it has great significance for the city, and it is an important symbol for the whole country. In connection with the State budget before Christmas, it was adopted: ‘The government is asking the government to facilitate the granting of the rescued property Tollbugata 10, as it appears today, as a gift to the Foundation The Old War School for a symbolic sum. The condition shall be that the foundation develops this property, which is particularly rich in historical and cultural values, so that it becomes available to the public and can thus convey the importance it has had for Norwegian social development.» In the Defence Forum on Tuesday, February 23, 2021, we read that the Ministry of Defence has commissioned the Defence Building to transfer Tollbugata 10 to the Old War School Foundation for a symbolic sum. The Old War School shall be transferred to the Foundation for DKK 10; This was in line with the Storting decision and good news for all those who have engaged in the matter. The challenge of the transfer is that Tollbugata 10 faces extensive rehabilitation after many decades of neglect. The improvements are estimated at 350 million. kr. For the Foundation it is very challenging to finance maintenance and upgrade costs themselves, and the Foundation hopes that the public will contribute to the improvement. In the context of the budgetary procedure, the bourgeois parties considered that a start-up contribution to the Foundation should be considered, which, together with the funds collected and cooperation agreements with the private sector, could start the renovation of the building. The Right Party, the Progressive Party, the Centre Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party requested the Ministry to review this cultural and historical property, buildings and structures and to promote a communication to the Stortinget assessing how these properties can be transferred from the Defence budget to, for example, the military's operational capacity. Ministry of Culture or other alternatives to current administration. That brings me to the loose proposal that we are promoting today. As Tollbugata 10 has now been transferred to the Foundation of the Old War School, the Progress Party today is therefore promoting the following proposal: ‘The Government is asked to determine whether any future grants and/or operating resources of the Foundation The Old War School in connection with the mass of buildings in Tollbugata 10 in Oslo should be triggered via the Ministry of Culture.’ As the representative Tetzschner said, the Progress Party and the Right want to look at the pointed end and the primary tasks of the Defence, do not spend the money on cultural memories, as the Center Party clearly wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e5300	The representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e5305	The Old War School is an important cultural memory, and the Center Party agrees with those who say that the building is in the same league as the Stortinget, the Eidsvoll Building and the Castle in symbolic value for our nation. Since 1802, the defense has been connected to the Tollbugata 10. The Old War School is Norway's oldest academic institution and the first academic university in Norway where the criterion for admission was not determined by inheritance or dictated by Copenhagen. The building has for generations linked the Defence, the Army and the nation and is in modern times a clear example of this living cultural history. Today's situation is that this is a culture memory in decline. In the years that have passed, defence construction has not taken care of the building mass that they should have, so it is today characterized by a far advanced maturity. It is now estimated that it will cost 350 million. to put the building in proper condition. Roof repair is particularly urgent, which is likely to cost 40 million. kr. In 2018, the defense released the rescued building for sale. In October 2020, it was announced that the War School building would be transferred to the Old War School Foundation, which had collected private funds and developed a business plan for the development and operation of the property. The transfer occurred, as several have been involved, in 2021. The aim of the Foundation is to gradually open the building to the public, but it requires both rapid and good planning of the restoration work and financing of the necessary work. The Central Party considers that it is a cross-political responsibility to ensure the financing of the refurbishment of the Old War School and to contribute to the proper functioning of the Foundation as its owner. The central party believes that the great importance of the building in the history of Norway and the capital justifies a state commitment to this task, also because of the lack of cultural memory management over the last decades under the responsibility of the State and the Defence. With this as a backstop, we in the Center Party now encourage the other parties to vote for our proposals, which will enable us to put in place a long-term financing plan and start the restoration work as soon as possible. We're not getting any support for that. We absolutely appreciate the proposal of the Progress Party, because everything is better than nothing, so we will support it subsidiaryly. With that, I'll take up the proposal of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e5322	The representative of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen has then drawn up the proposals to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e5327	The Old War School is, of course, a central building both in the history of Defence and in Norway’s history, and not least one of the central buildings in Oslo – one of the few that dates back to the 1600s. I think there are some and twenty that are left from the 1600s in the square and the nearest areas around. There is no doubt that we have a national responsibility to care for and secure in the years to come. I want to commend the Minister of Defense for taking the first step. Then you can say a lot about the defense up through the years and the lack of maintenance of the Old War School, but the first step in transferring it to the foundation for a symbolic sum was important to have the basis we need to build up both new activity and activity that would provide income that would allow you to have a maintenance of the war school in the years to come, but also an organisation for which public support can be given. I think you'll see where that kind of support is going. This will be a peaceful building, right enough for a foundation and not in private ownership. There is a support scheme for the Riksantikvaren that can be applied for already, but it is too small in relation to the needs of peaceful construction in Norway. Otherwise you can apply for the Cultural Memory Fund, but this will probably fall something outside and will also be too small to be able to take such a large upgrade as this. I think this is something that it is important that we jointly support. I do not ignore the fact that this is perhaps something the Municipality of Oslo would be interested in being part of and building up under – it should at least be. I think it is good that this debate is here. Then we can look at what proposals you now have for what work the government has to do towards the budget. I think it's important to find out where the responsibility lies. In the proposal of the Progress Party, it is with the Ministry of Culture. I think it might as well be natural that the Ministry of Climate and Environment and the Riksantikvaren have such a responsibility, to show that they have the necessary will to support them while maintaining, upgrading and caring for the war school for the future. It will still be important for the Defence, for Norway, but also very important for Oslo to get this work going.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e5340	Tollbugata 10, The Old War School, is a magnificent building and bears a long and significant history. The building is important, especially as a military historical cultural memory, and also as a country's first higher education institution. It coincides with an era of Norwegian national construction and subsequent independence. The issue of transfer has been the subject of previous budgetary positions. During the examination of the state budget for the current year, the Stortinget decided to ask the government to facilitate the granting of the saved property, as it appears today, as a gift to the Foundation of the Old War School for a symbolic sum. The condition shall be that the foundation develops this property, which is particularly rich in historical and cultural values, so that it becomes available to the public and can thus convey the importance it has had for Norwegian social development. As you can see, it was very interesting to be visiting and hearing the initiative, the measures and the plans they have for this area in our capital. It's an important thing, which I, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, am very proud to have joined. Because of our decision, Defence Building was commissioned to transfer Tollbugata 10 to the Foundation The Old War School as soon as possible for a symbolic sum, but the maintenance run, as others have mentioned, is quite significant. It's a lucrative property, and the aftermath is so great that you have to participate from the state, without the Storting having to dictate exactly how. It was now seized in connection with the handling of the cultural message, that the defence museums and conservation facilities are being transferred to the Ministry of Culture. The Christian People's Party hopes this will mean a vitamin injection for the dissemination of the country's important military history and give it a museum professional boost. Then I hope that, along with the foundation, you will find a good model to renovate and preserve the Old War School, so that its history appears, becomes visible and rediscovered. This is in addition an area that should be easily accessible to more people, and an enrichment for the Oslo urban space. Finally, the Christian People's Party will support the resolution made by the representative, Mr Wold, in the matter, until further notice.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e5359	The Old War School in Tollbugata 10 is a building that has been a central part of the history of Norway, Oslo and the Army. A full rehabilitation, as has been said here, for further use in the defence sector, was estimated to cost about 350 million. kr. Based on an overall assessment that also depended on whether the defence needed the premises, I decided in 2018 that the property would be disposed of. The Old War School Foundation aims to acquire, repair and maintain the Old War School in Tollbugata 10 in Oslo as a national cultural memory. Based on a majority comment in Innst. 7 S for 2018-2019, the Ministry of Sales held out the process to await the Foundation’s proposal on how ownership might be transferred, how to ensure a sustainable operating model, etc. In the dialogue between the Foundation and the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry has been presented with a comprehensive and detailed business plan on how the Foundation will create activity, revenue and ensure healthy operation. Key elements of the plan are the rental of premises for offices, restaurants, meetings and conferences, as well as the provision of history, training and cultural events. In my view, the foundation already has a very good plan for the operation of the property. I therefore do not see the need for an opportunity study on how the use and dissemination of the Old War School in Tollbugata 10 can be optimised, as proposed in the proposal for a representative. As you know, the Storting adopted during the treatment of Innst. 7 That Tollbugatha 10, as it appears today, is given as a gift to the Foundation of the Old War School for a symbolic sum. On the basis of the Stortinget's decision, the Ministry of Defence has commissioned the Defence Building to transfer Tollbugata 10 to the Foundation The Old War School as soon as possible. The decision has been communicated to the Foundation. The conditions of the Storting, the state of the day shall be the state in which the property is transferred and the development of the property so that it becomes available to the public will be ensured in connection with the transfer. The Ministry has set the symbolic sum of the property at NOK 10. Defence construction has informed the ministry that there are negotiations on some parts of the contract draft, and I believe that we can get a transfer if not for too long. I have a lot of understanding that it's a challenge to get built. At the same time, I would like to point out that the foundation has received a property taxed at over 40 million. kr for a completely symbolic sum, and thus that the State has already made a significant start-up contribution to the formation and its purpose. In my view, additional means of repair, operation and maintenance must, if necessary, search through public support schemes and private contributions, as they themselves have pointed out in their business plan. The Ministry of Defence has launched an investigation related to the management of the sector's cultural-historical properties, on which costs, ownership and organisation will also be seen. In this context, it is natural to look at where sectoral responsibility can be followed up for building disposed of from the defence sector to private owners. If grant schemes are to be established for this type of property, it is important from my point of view that the scheme is based on non-discrimination, predictability and transparency and that different issues are well addressed before a decision is taken. The Foundation The Old War School will of course be able to apply for such a scheme if it becomes established.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e5375	The old ball of war has housed the Army and the ball of war since before the Constitution was signed on Eidsvoll, but has been little known in public, and hence there is a special responsibility on the Stortinget to stay and get a healthy and good management of this that must be living cultural history. Of course, it is possible to understand the Ministry of Defence's dilemma when one has to weigh building protection in one hand, defence in the other, and budgets are thrones, and it is equally understandable that one then prioritizes as one has done. But what's not understandable is that the government has not raised this up more clearly and made a decision that also ensures that you get a maintenance of the building. In the spring of 2018, this matter came to the fore, and the Center Party took a very rapid position that this is not possible – we cannot get rid of such a building, it must be done in a good way. This is our national history, and we have to take care of that. We're a rich country. It is claimed that we are perhaps the richest country in the world. We must afford to take care of this building, which is defence history and cultural history. I also think it is important that we pay attention over time to the fact that this is defence history in Norway. It could be possible for the war ball to have some activity there. We're missing a historic, national border post when the war ball is no longer going to be there. In an article by one of those who have worked very hard for this building, it said: ‘It will be like pouring out the contents of a good well-storied Bordeaux and then claiming that the empty bottle and label will carry the value on.’ It gets to be his word, but it could be that Norway, with our defence history and as the cultural nation we want to be, could have thought big and that a renovated, refurbished building could have been returned to the Army for the 400th anniversary of 2028. It could smell a bit of something that was a nation worth Norway – a cultural nation. We've had a lot of contact with Oslo Byes Vel. Maybe one would think that it was far from the Center Party, but we have a very good relationship with the House House here and the others in Oslo Byes Vel. I have great respect for what they work for, and for the foundation. I am pleased that we have come there, and I hope that the Storting, having thought carefully about it, will be willing to turn up some money for this beautiful building.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e5391	If we're going to sum up the last eight years, the defense has prioritised fighting force. It's a priority I've agreed on. But I have disagreed that the Ministry of Culture has not been admitted early enough to take greater responsibility for the culture of Defence. Fortunately, we were able to save two defence corps during the treatment of the previous long-term plan. One must leave some of the financial responsibility to the Ministry of Culture. I think that was good. If we compare the transfers to the Museums of Defense with the other museums, we've been in a situation for many years where it's been quiet in the area of defence, while the other museums in the last few years have been getting quite an increase. I think it is high time that we had transferred the defence museums to the Ministry of Culture, where they could have both professional independence, the opportunity to grow, and not every day compete with bullets and powder. This case is also about that. I remember raising this question at Stortinget in October, during the financial debate. Then I remember that we did not get a majority in order to remain in the war school, but fortunately the parties at Stortinget found an opportunity for us to take care of this important cultural memory. I believe that we all have a responsibility for that. No matter what government we get, I hope that the Ministry of Defence shows great commitment and interest in taking care of this part of our common cultural history. Although the Ministry of Culture is now given greater responsibility, the heart of these issues must also lie with people who are concerned with defence policy – not at the expense of defence and fighting power, but in addition. There we have a common responsibility. The Labour Party will vote in favour of the resolution of the Procedural Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e5402	I don't think there's such a big disagreement about these questions, but it's a big problem. The defense has a lot of cultural-historical property, and we're kind of looking to clean up a little bit in the portfolio. For the properties you need to dispose of, we need to find someone who can preserve history and the cultural history aspect. It concerns properties, and it will relate to fastenings around. The most important thing for us is to get it rigged so that those who can focus on things like this, who are professionals, can take that part of conservation, but also with the history press. As Huitfeldt's representative says, I think it's a good idea for the Ministry of Culture, with those environments, to take care of the dissemination of knowledge through the museums. I also think it's a good idea to get the Riksantikvaren and the other professional environments to look at this part of the portfolio of Defense, and we're working on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e5407	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e5424	At the request of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, no lines will be given, and those who have to draw on the list of speakers in addition to the time allocated will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e5431	Two years ago, shocking figures were published from a defense survey. It was about bullying and sexual harassment and revealed, among other things, that eight out of ten women in first-time employment had been subjected to sexual harassment. The same was true of four out of ten men. This year the new number came. 10 000 people have responded, and the study shows a slight improvement, but this is still taking place at an unacceptable level. 22 pst. have experienced some form of sexual harassment during the last year. The gender difference in the answer is significant – 14 pst. Of the men answering affirmatively, while the whole 46 pst., almost half of the women, do the same. The study reveals that harassment, among other things: involve unwanted sexual attention as well as cases of sexual pressure and sexual assault. We have here to deal with a Document No. Eight proposals to draw up a comprehensive plan to achieve the objective set out in the UN Women's, Peace and Security Agenda, in the Equality and Working Environment Act. Norway has had a political ambition to be an international leader in the implementation of the UN agenda ever since the first national interministerial action plan came in 2005. When we talk about the UN agenda and women and peace and security here in this room, it's often about the importance of women in international operations, the use of sexualized violence as weapons against women in conflict or the importance of including women in peace processes. These are very important discussions, but too rarely do we talk about the UN agenda being also about maintaining the gender perspective and ensuring all acceptable working conditions within their own organisation. A joint committee writes that we are aware that work on equality in defence has intensified in recent years, and that such development work takes time. Nevertheless, research reveals that defence has challenges related to the implementation of a gender perspective and work on women, peace and security. The Minister of Defence himself writes in a reply to the Stortinget: ‘The development of a holistic implementation plan by many countries has been one of these challenges’. And on the other hand, ‘Parties of research address a particular critical searchlight on the defence solution to the government’s obligations towards the UN and NATO.’ So this isn't just about the individuals who are being bullied and harassed, it's ultimately important for a functioning defence and the country's defence capabilities. That is why the Committee must take greater responsibility for this. Where the Committee is divided, the question of whether this is something we can continue to leave to the defence alone, or whether it is a political responsibility to draw up such an overall plan. So the members of the Workers' Party, SV and those who are behind the proposal, the Senter Party, mean the last one, and by that I address the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e5450	The representative Marianne Marthinsen has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e5455	There is a strong consensus that gender equality is important, and in defence, gender equality work has intensified in recent years. Research, studies and studies have contributed to a clearer understanding of the major challenges and relevant actions. But such development takes time. We definitely still have a way to go, and it's important to keep the pressure up. Therefore, it is disappointing that the government parties will not support the proposal to draw up a comprehensive defence plan to achieve the objectives set out in the UN Women's, Peace and Security Agenda, the Equality and Non-Discrimination Act and the Labour Environment Act. It is good that Norway has had a political ambition to be an international leader in the implementation of the women’s, peace and security agenda, ever since the first national interministerial action plan came in 2005, followed by three new plans. These focus on the need for gender perspective in all aspects of defence activities, both internally and externally. But we're not good enough. The last investigation into bullying and sexual harassment in the defence showed that 22 p.m. by those who asked have experienced some form of sexual harassment. It can be sexual attention, sexual pressure and sexual assault. That's 46 pst. by the women who answer yes to this. It's very serious, and it actually helps, as the rapporteur pointed out, to weaken our defence capabilities. The Central Party knows that NATO is working on developing a formal policy on how to prevent and act against gender-based and sexualised violence in war and conflict. NATO is concerned about the use of sexualised violence against women in conflict, but also increasingly against men. An important part of this work is about raising awareness of the alliance and defence in the various NATO countries. However, like the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party, the Centre also believes that it is very important that the Norwegian defence should have a fully-fledged plan, and that we take political action to achieve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e5464	The representative proposal draws attention to some very important issue. In my response to the committee, I write that I do not see the need for the government to develop a comprehensive action plan in the fields, but that this is something the Defense must do itself. Important measures have already been taken, but a more systematic follow-up is needed. I agree with the representatives behind the proposal that work on women, peace and security, MOST, as well as equality and diversity require systematic and comprehensive follow-up over a long period of time. In recent years, work has intensified. Equality and diversity and zero tolerance against harassment are important values to be respected throughout the defence sector. The defence sector shall be a place where we take care of each other and meet each other with transparency, visibility, respect, responsibility and courage. A culture of diversity and equality makes the defence even better able to solve its tasks. Working with diversity and equality, MOST and women, peace and security are part of long-term and continuous work. Here it is important that we work systematically and holistically with attitudes, culture and practices. This is a management responsibility from the head of the room onwards. Everyone has to see, everyone has to alert. We also see the results of the work the defense fails. They come gradually, over time. And then I have to be allowed to add: we have to be impatient, and we have to work specifically to get good results in this area. We've been working on developing a new investigation to identify bullying and sexual harassment across the defence sector. This is an example of an activity that demonstrates a sincere ambition to establish the best possible working environment for all. On schedule, the study will be carried out for the first time in the autumn of 2022. Together with the other measures we are implementing in the sector and internally in defence, I believe that we will be able to contribute to the continued positive development of the culture of defence. The Ministry will continue to monitor this work. In order to ensure a good implementation, it is important that this is carried out as part of the ordinary governance of the Defence. Therefore, the defence itself must be given the task of developing the concrete plans for further work. So to it with women, peace and security and the NATO work. There is also a great deal of work going on in the United Nations, where Norway is leading the work, so we are highlighting many arenas in this work. And we're a strong voice. Measured against a lot of other nations, we're good. This is a lesson the Norwegian defence has been learning ever since the first international operations in Lebanon and Kosovo, where it turned out that understanding a complex conflict is better done if you have a variety of codes and understandings with you. Even early in Lebanon, female officers and soldiers showed that they were present and meant a difference in the way we could act as peacekeepers down there.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e5479	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 17.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e5496	At the request of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, no lines will be given, and those who have to draw on the list of speakers in addition to the time allocated will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e5503	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Construction for its constructive work on this matter. Here the search light is set on helicopter capacity for the Coast Guard, and it's a case where we all want the same thing when it comes to the play. The Coast Guard plays a particularly important role for both security and preparedness, as well as in surveillance and rescue operations. The Coast Guard is under the Defence of the Sea and thus also part of the military defence of Norway, although the Department is primarily responsible for resolving the defence’s maritime peace operation mission. The coastguard is always present, clear with what they have – every day, the whole year – as they themselves have as a work motto. Their tasks are sovereignty enforcement, fisheries, fisheries control, resource control, customs supervision and environmental protection. The Coast Guard is also an important search and rescue tool for seafarers in the Norwegian economic zone. In other words, they have a key task for the coastal and marine nation of Norway, with a view to our large and valuable marine areas. The entire committee therefore agrees – and it is not surprising – with the proposers that our coastguard must have sufficient helicopter capacity. These helicopters must have sufficient reach and deal with challenging weather and climate conditions, as in the Barents Sea. The Ministry of Defence has explained that the phase-in and build-up of the operational capacity of the NH90 is slower than expected. There are still challenges with and after delivery and available spare parts. The corona pandemic that hit North Italy particularly hard at the beginning of the pandemic has reinforced this challenge, and the consequence for us is, unfortunately, that the defense has less flight time available than planned and thus lower phase-in rate of operational capacity. However, the defence, on behalf of the Ministry of Defence and with the assistance of the Defence Research Institute, has re-assessed the suitability of alternative helicopters to meet parts of the needs to be met by the NH90 on schedule. This assessment shows that there are other helicopter resources that can also meet the defence's needs for maritime helicopters and that parts of this need should be considered covered by the lease of helicopter capacity. The government is working on such a solution so that both the Coast Guard and the Navy will meet their needs for maritime helicopters in both the short and long term. With that, I recommend the committee's proposal for a decision, which is also part of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e5522	It is well known that the NH90 helicopters have challenges that are almost insurmountable. The main challenge is that the helicopter is unable to deliver the required number of flight hours required to provide the frigates and Coast Guard with the required helicopter capacity as foreseen. The operational needs of the defence were originally 5000 hours of flight per year. Now this level of ambition is reduced to 2,100 hours a year. Nor was this reduced level of ambition possible in 2020, according to the Defence Manager. Although we are taking remedial action, the phase-in of NH90 is weaker than expected. Something is caused by the pandemic in the last year, but the delays after 2018 cannot be attributed to the pandemic alone. As frigate thelikopter, the NH90 shall, inter alia: carry out surveillance, anti-submarine operations, counter-terrorism and special operations. For the Coast Guard, the missions include: include fishing inspection, search and rescue and medical evacuation. It is important for the government that both the marine and the Coast Guard are adequately secured with helicopters. When this cannot be done with the NH90, it is essential that the NH90 is supplemented by other helicopters. That is why it is positive that the government is now working towards the goal that this proposal for a representative points to. Ensuring the Coast Guard's adequate helicopter capacity through the lease-in of helicopters is being undertaken. Finally, I refer to Prop. 123 S for 2020-2021, Investments in Defence and other matters, which state that the Defence now assesses other types of helicopters as fit to meet the Defence’s needs for maritime helicopter capacity. But there is an important clarification in this: it is important that the supplement required by the NH90 is channelled to those parts of the helicopter need that do not need the advanced technological platform that the NH90 represents. Here you probably have to differentiate the problems so that you can open a door for what is possible to hire from other helicopters, so that in a totality you can meet the total helicopter demand. It is not easy, but the government is working well on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e5531	The coastguard must have sufficient helicopter capacity with sufficient range of machinery capable of coping with challenging weather and climate conditions, such as: in the Barents Sea. The purchase of NH90 helicopters has not been a successful investment for the Norwegian defence. The centre party believes that the situation related to the NH90 today is totally unsustainable for the defense. Helicopters are not able to deliver flight hours near what was suggested at the time of the investment and are not currently doing their job. To reach a satisfactory number of flight hours would require billions of exceedances. The Ministry of Defence has confirmed in Prop. 123 S for 2020-2021 that the NH90 does not function as planned and believes that other helicopters can also meet the Defence Defence's need for maritime helicopter capacity through a solution with the lease of helicopter capacity. The Minister of Defence has shown that a short- and medium-term solution is being sought to meet the needs of the marine and the Coast Guard for maritime helicopters. The central party is positive that a solution is being worked on by the government to secure the helicopter for the Coast Guard. But for the Center Party, it is important to find a solution that ensures the need for reach and challenging flight conditions on a permanent basis, and we believe it is important to keep the Storting informed about the job to be done further. We are therefore promoting a proposal that the government should assess helicopter capacity in a 20-year perspective, where the cost of operation and maintenance is assessed against the purchase of new helicopters. The difficult situation of the Defence cannot be drawn out in time, and we therefore ask that the government return to the Stortinget with the matter in the proposal for a State budget for 2022. I would then like to record the Senterpartiet and SV's proposals, to which I have referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e5540	The representative Emilie Enger Mehl has drawn up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e5545	I agree with the intention of the proposal of the Central Party. We have to work on a solution that ensures the Coast Guard sufficient helicopter capacity. When it comes to informing the Storting, we have already informed the Storting that we are working on looking at alternatives. Renting civil helicopter capacity is an opportunity we're looking for, and it's important – as the representative Enger Mehl says – that we also meet the maritime needs and can meet the requirements of the Coast Guard for its helicopter capacity. And then we're looking for a capacity that can cover missions that don't always require as specialised helicopters as NH90, and that I previously informed the Stortinget about; it's a job we're doing. We see the seriousness of the situation, and we fully agree with everyone in Stortinget that the NH90 is a disastrous project.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e5552	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e5569	At the request of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, lines are not given, and those who have to draw on the list of speakers in addition to the time allocated will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e5576	In the first almost 200 years after Norway became independent, using military power against countries other than self-defense for the most part was totally out of date, but after the end of the Cold War and especially after 1989, Norway has participated in wars under the United States and NATO leadership in Europe, in Africa and in Asia. Red will now prepare accounts and have an independent evaluation of what Norwegian participation in foreign war operations has meant for Norway and the countries in which we have warred. A lot needs to be investigated. What are the consequences for the position of international law when Norway participates in wars of regime change, as in Libya, and where our allies torture and kill civilians, as in Afghanistan? How many people are killed? How many are driven on flight? More warfare also affects our country, where we now see more and more of the symptoms that characterize a war nation. We have a large group of injured and traumatized war veterans that the state has not followed up. More warfare leads to more and more decisions and the use of Community funds being kept secret at the expense of democracy and transparency. In 2015, the then Chief of Defense Haakon Bruun-Hanssen concluded that warfare abroad has gone at the expense of readiness at home. That critical voices were barely heard when Norway went to war in Afghanistan, and that Red is the only party on the Stortinget today who said no to the Libyan war, is probably a symptom typical of war nations. Although the government and the political elite try to give the impression that this is normal, Norway has not always been a war nation. When the Storting adopted today's constitution on military use in 1917, the Constitutional Committee concluded that it was intended to make self-defense "the only concept of war, our constitution knows at all". Today's political elite have rejected this policy without a proper democratic debate. There are the consequences of this Red now going to investigate. War has consequences, brutal consequences. War creates and has created great suffering. The same parties who say yes to war now say no to an independent investigation of the consequences. The consequences for the victims of war are not gone, no matter how much you close your eyes and ears. With that, I'll take up Red's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e5593	The representative Seher Aydar has drawn up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e5598	This is an initiative aimed at the presidency of the Storting. The Presidency will then also consider the proposal, but, as I understand it, it is not in agreement with it. One can also reflect a little on such occasions on the need for the representative proposal, because it is fully possible to discuss Norway’s international commitment. It is fully possible to discuss Norwegian defence policy. And the Stortinget regularly deals with communications and strategic decision-making documents, and for years we have government budgets, where all aspects of Norwegian policy are discussed. If we hear a little past this accusation of Norwegian defence policy throughout the post-war period and concentrate on the initiative, I can say, for our part, on behalf of the Right Group, that it seems pointless to reduce a selection of the premises outlined here. Firstly, Norwegian participation in international operations is the subject of ongoing debate in the past. The processes, statements and communications of the government in public support in this respect. It is also the case that the Riksrevision carries out a back-testing on whether the Storting's assumption and decision are being followed up. We do not see in this context that there is any particular need to have a specific sample that will then make an overall review of the debates we have already been through. I also recall that the government regularly briefs the bodies of the Storting on planned and ongoing operations, and we have just had our own statement on Norwegian participation in operations in Afghanistan and Iraq. It is worth noting that Norwegian participation in international operations is part of our alliance obligations and has been justified on the one hand by humanitarian needs in which Norwegian forces have participated. I would again like to stress that the defence of Norway takes place along three mutually reinforcing broad lines. First of all, it is the national defence capability, it is the collective defence of the NATO Alliance, and it is, of course, also to provide bilateral support and reinforcements in cooperation with allies. It is also, in our view, an initiative that should not come forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e5613	I have just explained how changing governments have broken across Norway's more than 170 years of peace tradition and the intention behind today's constitutional law, that is. § 26, on the use of military force against foreign states. What we want is to get the facts on the table about the consequences for the combined millions of people who have been killed and driven away in the U.S. and NATO-led wars in which Norway has participated, and how increasing participation in foreign war operations has affected Norwegian society. Therefore, we maintain the proposal that the Storting should set up an independent and wide-ranging selection to investigate the overall consequences of Norwegian participation in the war from 1991 to today. Then I just have to say that when the same parties who have said yes to war in Afghanistan, Libya and Syria now say no to an independent examination of the consequences, it is only enough to show the way of thinking of the political elite who have rejected Norway's best peace traditions and made our country a war nation. We have also made some new proposals, and I shall briefly explain the background to some of them. Proposals Nos. 3, 4 and 6 are about veterans after foreign operations. Our basic vision is well known. We're against participating in the US and NATO attacks wars, but we're because when the state sends women and men into war zones, yes, the state has to take responsibility for those who get hurt back. We believe, like the Joint Union of Police, that police officers who have participated in foreign operations are today receiving poor follow-up. Over a year ago, the Red Government asked for information on how many Norwegian veterans have been completely or partially injured in war abroad. The Minister of Defence promised to come back to Stortinget with this. It's obviously absolutely necessary information if we're going to take care of the veterans, so I hope the Stortinget steps in and ask the government to provide this information. For proposal No 7: Norway cannot cooperate with foreign powers spying against Norwegian democracy. That is why we are proposing to freeze cooperation with US intelligence until American spying against Norway is surveyed and the Stortinget is oriented.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e5628	As I understood it, the last article was a repetition of the first, basically. In return, I will not discourage the assembly from repeating my post from instead. I just want to say that if we want to change society, it must be done on an informed basis and in relation to the documents that Stortinget has for formal treatment. A loose representative proposal like this is also not suitable for promoting democratic debate – especially when the starting point is simply to swear the policy that the Stortinget has been pursuing throughout the post-war period.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e5633	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 19th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-08.ana.ud165e5648	There is no record available. This way, the map is ready for processing today. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
