ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e62	The President will propose that the public gallery of infectious diseases be closed during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative of Erlend Wiborg shall apply for parental leave from 23 December 2021 until 25 February 2022. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, Björn Laabak, is invited to meet for the period of leave from 5 January to 17 February.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e84	The representative, Kathy Lie, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e89	On behalf of myself, Mr. Grunde Almeland and Mr. Tobias Drevland Lund, I would like to make a proposal for a representative to secure children's individual rights of appeal under the Children's Convention.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e94	The representative of Morten Stordalen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e99	On behalf of the representatives of Erlend Wiborg, Helge André Njåstad, Himanshu Gulati, Bengt Rune Strifeldt, Gisle Meininger Saudland, Silje Hämdal, Sivert Bjørnstad, Sylvi Listhaug, Dagfinn Henrik Olsen and myself, I have delighted to make a proposal to wind up the county council as a level of government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e104	The representative, Seher Aydar, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e109	On behalf of the representatives of Geir Jørgensen, Bjørna Moxnes and myself, I would like to make suggestions for the degradation of the EOS Committee summary of the final report on the Frode Berg case. And on behalf of the representative, the Bears Moxnes and myself, I would like to make suggestions to restore the Civil Ombudsman's right of access to government documents.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e116	The representative, Frank Edvard Sve, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e122	I want, on behalf of the representatives of Sylvi Listhaug, Helge André Njåstad, Roy Steffensen, Himanshu Gulati, Erlend Wiborg, Marius Arion Nilsen and myself to promote suggestions to stop further electrification of Norwegian pedestal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e127	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform the President that the meeting will, if necessary, be scheduled to take place beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox Case No. 1 to 6 will be treated as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e209	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the allocated speaking time in the debate will be limited to 1 hour and 35 minutes, and the President will organise the debate as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Center Party 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party, Red, Left, Environmental Party The Green and Christian People's Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from the main speakers of the lots and after contributions from members of the government. In addition, those who have to sign up for the speaker list in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e220	I want to start by thanking the Committee for a very good cooperation throughout the autumn. I would also like to thank the Committee Secretariat, who has assisted the process and made sure that we have been able to carry out the work in a very good way. Today, we are discussing the final part of the budget debates that have taken place in Stortingen this autumn. It's also the debate that marks the real shift for something new, it's the beginning of a new era. After years of growing economic differences, there is time for a new political course; there is time for change. There are many who have noticed, and also noticed in the autumn, that major changes have taken place since the conclusion of a budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Socialist Left Party. There's something that's needed right now. When people have a tough time behind the coronary crisis, with a differential crisis and with insecurity, it's time to build up the well-being, strengthen the community and strengthen the security of people's lives. It's done by thinking well-being is going to grow, which is going to be there when we need it in our lives, not something we should be able to achieve with lua at hand when you're considered worthy of need. That's why I'm very happy that we're building up universal well-being, what's going to reach everyone and be the plank we're going to be faced with when it doesn't go as planned in life, when we lose the job or end up in economically demanding situations. That's why I'm very happy that we're going to put in vacation money for the unemployed and the lay-offs, and that kids who need glasses are going to get the support back and the parents aren't going to go around with a lump in their stomach about how to get it if you have three kids with reduced vision. I am very pleased that the families who have the least, and who have to apply for social assistance, are going to have to retain child welfare, as others in this society do. And I'm very happy that we got a new course on the policy of disability, both for the disability to have children's supplements, and for the curtailment to be nothing of – which was proposed both by the Solberg government and in the supplementary proposition. We know that gives you a sense of security in order to be able to contribute to those who can. We know that gives security to those who have disabled people – such as support contact or extra help. And that we know that those who have the opportunity to do so can contribute to the energy they have – in society, in democracy – with the security of their lives. It's also a question of the direction in which we're going, whether we're going as a society all the time to think that we're going to have a smaller state, that we're going to have less community and less security – to a minimum, or whether we're going to think that having a common well-being is what creates good society, security and less differences. That's why I'm very happy that we've started to reverse unsocial cuts, building up a greater degree of public welfare, seeing traces of both dental reform and school leisure arrangements for everyone. In the SV's alternative budget, we see even further. There we look towards a working day, a morning, with reduced working time, so that we can distribute the work, strengthen our health and also ensure more income. It's a more long-term job. That's why it's a happy start to deal with today's budget, because it also points to a morning when workers and ordinary people come out better. It is necessary at a time of increasing differences.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e231	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e236	The representative from SV and I agree that we must get more of those who have fallen outside, back into working life. How to do this, on the other hand, we may be quite dissenting about the fact that SV will abolish tenders in the Nav action apparatus. Since each jobseeker is so different, we should have different offers. Throughout Kommune-Norway, there are many private actors who have an idea of how to include more. There may be removal agency services operated by former inmates, there may be sewing and repair companies that employ only migrant women. Large investment companies also look at their social responsibility and offer e.g. job of IT consultants with Asperger’s syndrome. What would have happened to this diversity if SV were to decide?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e243	There is no doubt that close individual follow-up and activity adapted to the individual is what works best. That is why a close hub is needed, a hub is needed that has the ability to take action under its own direction, and that is why action is needed that is not pre-paid and pre-defined and that people have to fit in with, but that needs to be adapted to the individual. That is exactly why I would like to say that the competitive spirit we have seen with the instrument of action does not necessarily contribute to the security we want. And the blind duty of activity that the right-hand side has stepped down over the head of young people is not necessarily something that makes you see the individual – or something that works if the goal is work and good life. So the answer is: see the individual, not the market.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e248	I thank you for your answer. But now it is such that the abolition of the entire Nav tendering regime would have led to the fact that very many of the actors I just mentioned could not have maintained their offers. In addition, we would have lost a lot of good ideas and important innovation developments. That's just what's so good, that anyone who wants to do will be able to contribute exactly his tailor-made idea to the individual. My question will therefore be: is public responsibility for all innovation developments in labour market measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e253	SV wants public and non-profit institutions to be what the welfare rests on and what is predictability for people. It is also precisely predictability in long-term contracts, in contracts, that is necessary. We've seen quite ghastly examples of companies that are self-employed, and that do not have safe conditions, are the ones that are supposed to lead people into the labour market. That's a very bad starting point. And it's not that if you let the thousand flowers bloom, life becomes to them on measures like a flower meadow. On the contrary, local and small and ideals are being squeezed out and large take over in larger parts of the apparatus, when the market is at stake — rather than using discretion.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e258	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e263	On the last day of the Great Britain meeting in 2021, we are again seriously affected as to what the next weeks bring to work and society. It is only a few months since the draft state budget was presented and a few weeks since the budget agreement between the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV was presented. We were going to look forward and get people back to work. Then came omicron and turned everything on his head. The entrance to 2022 is not going to be exactly what we thought. Workers are once again aware of uncertainties, and employers face difficult choices. Although it is the budget we are debating here today, I think it is quite natural that we see both the budget and the crisis arrangements that have been announced in the context. Because that's the final sum and how the measures work together, as counting for people. We know, for example. that the compensation scheme presented yesterday has led to the withdrawal of a number of employers’ leavencies. It is good to see that this may mean that more people will keep their work community in the future, and that fewer people will be permitted. I'm proud of the budget we're presenting. It represents a change in course that people will notice in their lives. There are policies that reduce the social differences between people, there are policies that strengthen the universal well-being, and there are policies that bring people back to work – yes, it's just good social-democratic policies for ordinary people. The right-wing government spent its eight years ruddering to give the most to those who already have a lot. The tax reliefs to the richest have been funded with unsocial cuts to those who have the least. But this shot we're about to turn. To balance social differences, we need to take more steps. It's about work, it's about universal well-being, and it's about a redistributive tax system. Although several industries now experience a rapid stoppage, there were very positive trends in the economy and the labour market during the autumn. And once again, when we get control of the infection, the most important job is to get people back to work. In this budget, we take important steps to get to that very point. Working for everyone will always be the number one job for the Working Party. This is why we are increasing the allocation of labour market measures, so that more people outside the labour market are qualified and helped to get to work through 1000 more action sites and 250 more VTA sites than the Solberg government budget proposals. Job opportunities are below the budget of the Municipal Committee, but we are also increasing the pot to increase the number of immigrant women in work. The number of young unemployed has doubled on Erna Solberg's watch. We can't afford that. Both society and the individual are losing their way. That is why we are also strengthening Nav. Increasing staffing in Nav is an important step towards strengthening the role of the agency as a labour service provider and its efforts towards priority groups. There is still a lot of work to be done after eight years of right-wing control, but I think we have worked out a good course. However, unemployed and on leave will receive holiday pay next year. The system of children’s spectacle support shall be improved. The child allowance for the disabled shall be reinstated, and families with children receiving social assistance shall not lose the child’s pension. Those receiving redundancy benefits shall no longer risk ending up on social assistance because Nav or healthcare has not been able to treat or clarify them quickly enough. There has been a lot of evidence that the AAP scheme does not work after the intention. Many people experience that they get into the system without anything happening. We have to make sure that there is progress for the people who are being followed up. We've also heard stories about people who haven't been cleared up by the deadline and stayed standing without income insurance. In the Hurdal platform, we state that persons receiving the AAP will be given an extension if they are not completed by the Nav or Health Service. Here we come back with more suggestions to improve the scheme. In the first place, we, together with SV, ensure an extension for AAP recipients until summer, and set of 770 million. kr for the purpose. The victim shall not receive a cut-off of labour income from the first crown. We were contacted by a lot of people who had doubts about this proposal. It was useful to say from. You were heard. Finally, I would like to stress how important it is that the crisis arrangements in our field have been extended in February and some longer than that. This allows those who are unemployed and on leave to meet Christmas with a little lower shoulders.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e291	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e297	One of the most important keys to getting into work is education, and for many it's about getting that diploma or one that you didn't have. One of the things that the Solberg government proposed to start was an experiment with organized higher education for those who are just lacking this competence. This is something we know that is one of the major challenges: simply the cooperation between Nav and the county councils to organise a good education offer. That's why they put off well over 30 million. kr to start such an experiment. So the new government has chosen to withdraw this, cut by 32.6 million. kr, with the reason that you want to find out more. Believe me, we know a lot about the challenges. Now we have to get the solutions in place. What does that representative think we need to investigate, in order to launch this offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e304	As I was also in my post, there has been a formidable increase in the number of young people under the previous government. When we had a financial debate in Stortinget, former State Councillor Sanner stood on the pulpit and said that the gap in competence has never been greater. Those who were unemployed before the coronary crisis are even further away from the labour market now than they did a few years ago. It's not done enough to qualify these people for work. There's a greater gap now between what business demands, and the skills that we can offer. The right is adorned with small pilot schemes and pilots, while this challenge is enormous. Here, the Right simply failed with competence policy. We have thousands of young people that we're going to have in work. Then a force bet, not small pilots and experiments are required.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e311	First, it is worth reminding the representative that high school completion went from 70 to 80 pst. on our watch, and that we have just launched a competence policy for well over 1 billion. kr in the year with organised continuing training offers for those who lack that competence. We've got industry programs, there's a lot of grips. Evenly, it's not that we're in the goal. We need to do more to make sure that those who are missing that subject, or that diploma or diploma, get it in place. I can in many ways understand what the representative says about we have a lot left to do, that it's not just about pilots, etc. But it's completely incomprehensible why the end of that reasoning is to stop a experiment – it must be to scale up that attempt, if the representative thinks it's the problem. So I just have to ask again: what does that representative think we have to figure out, which means that we don't get this offer up for people who need it, in 2022?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e318	It's, as I was also in my post, a huge reverse operation we've had to deal with, for example. These 770 million. kr for redundancy payments, many of which are young and need stronger Nav assistance, closer follow-up and qualification to get to work. The right doesn't spend the big money on solving the big challenges. We have said that we want a job guarantee for the youngest, we need a skills reform, and we need to change the whole way Nav works, to give a closer, better follow-up to those who fall outside. Yes, it's about qualification, it's about education, it's about competence. We have said that we should see work, health and education in the context, and I can promise the representative Asheim that we will come back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e325	Much is currently about covid-19 and ensuring jobs and business. The sum of what we see the government has put on the table is the shared opinions about, both from the NHO and workers. One does not want to reduce the employer’s period of leave to three days, but rather wants to look at the possibility of increasing the employer’s period of leave. This comes at the top of already announced 10 billion. kr in tax increases for business. I'm worried about the workplaces and the possibilities that the business actors have to be in the pandemic we're currently in. Does the representative share the concern of the business community and the undersigned that they are capable of doing so, or is there any undue concern?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e330	I believe that absolutely all the politicians who are in this Chamber should take seriously the situation we are in now. We will take the concerns of employers, of the workers seriously. We have already adopted the proposal to increase the employer’s period from 10 to 15 days with effect from 1 March. When we debated this last Monday, we were also clear that we must of course come back after Christmas if we see that business is not ready to take on that task from 1 March. We have said that measures for workers and business should last as long as the crisis lasts. I believe that this government has demonstrated. This government has been working high in the last few weeks to provide longer-term measures, to present new measures, and the pay support scheme that was put in place yesterday is a good subsidy in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e335	For the past decades, the Workers' Party has laid the groundwork for its policy. It is also mentioned in the Government Platform. Then we're not talking about the line of work that Martin Tranmæl had in his time chiseled out, where it was the task of the state to get work for everyone, but rather about the line of work that Gro Harlem Brundtland introduced, where one has a belief in the healing effect of social security and social security that borders on the landscape of alternative medicine. My question to the representative Moflag is: does not the Labour Party and the representative not see that the way in which the working line has been practised also by the Workers' Party over the last decades, not first and foremost has been a policy that makes it pay to work, but on the contrary has become a policy that penalises being ill?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e340	Firstly, I would say that yes, the workline has been and will continue to be important for the Workers' Party. Work is what too many give health. Work can be the way out of poverty – it may be the most important way out of poverty. But we see that there have been changes in the social security and benefit system that have made it more difficult for people. I believe that with this budget we show that we want to reverse that trend, for example. by reintroducing the child allowance for disability, by improving the redundancy scheme, by saying no in the budget agreement to the proposal to shorten unemployed labour income. I believe that the workline should be proud of. The work line gives people freedom, opportunities, health, responsibility, but we're going to have a work line that also gives people a decent life, and I think I'm sharing that with the representative Kristjánsson.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e347	One observation after the budget debates in the last few weeks, and also now, is that the Labour Party is talking to its representatives with great patos and is very proud of many of the efforts in this budget. It's e.g. cheaper SFO. It's the beginning of a dental reform. It is the holiday allowance for the unemployed, the child allowance for the disabled, the shortening of social assistance. But what do they have in common, these things that the Labour Party is so proud of? It is that the Labour Party has not proposed them. It is that there are no proposals from the government. Everything is invested in the budget agreement here in Stortinget. It's an interesting observation in itself that in a way, it's SV that needs to be in order for the Labour Party to be proud of what they're doing. The question is financed, because this is largely financed by temporary revenues, including: Dividends from Statkraft, which hopefully are not there next year at a lower electricity price. Where will the money come from?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e352	There is no doubt that the Workers' Party is proud of the budget we are presenting, because it provides good social-democratic policies. It delivers the policy on which the Workers' Party has gone to elections. It delivers on the policy we had in our 100-day plan. The Labour Party has always been responsible for economic policy. We've always had a policy that allows you to see not just one year in time, as we do with these state budgets, but that we can look far ahead in time. Then, of course, the budgets are aged for one year at a time. The work on next year's government budget is going on so far, and here we're going to work for, of course, that the arrangements we've put forward, as we've promised people, get a long-term, lasting funding, which makes people feel safe that they're going to keep this up for the next few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e359	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e365	I would also like to start by thanking the Committee for a good cooperation in a slightly extra demanding process – with a change of government after the initial draft budget, then an additional proposal from a new government and then a negotiated result between the majority parties here in the Grand Duchy. Equally, good cooperation across the parties in the committee has led to an attitude that clearly shows the differences between us and where we agree. This committee is responsible for areas that concern extremely many people: from the senior pensioner who wants a good and safe pension, to the teenager who wonders if there is money left for her to retire – from her who lacks only one post-secondary subject to get the diploma in place, but who is also struggling to get the first job, to the person who has struggled with great pains through life and just dreams of getting to work as often as his body or head lets him do it. And it's all about the rights and duties of ordinary workers at work and those who run the businesses they work in. In some sectors, many are now concerned about their survival, and in other sectors, the main challenge is to provide sufficient skilled labour to ensure further growth and the ability to take on new jobs. And then there's all between these extremes. In addition to that, we are once again in new corona measures and thus also new restrictions. Priority number one must always be life and health first. However, the new measures also go hand in hand with many of those who have paid a high price since March 2020 – the restaurant, catering, cultural and event industries – those who live by people’s gathering. It hurts a little bit when these restrictions come at the time when sales were going to shoot in the weather and there would be more than enough work for everyone in an otherwise hard-tested industry. Therefore, it is quite natural that the discussion is now on what compensation measures are needed in the future. The aim must be to save viable jobs throughout the country in a situation where the authorities impose absolutely necessary restrictions on their operations. The right has previously raised wage support as a necessary measure, but it is important that this can be combined with permits. The deadline for the withdrawal of permitting alerts is a little Christmas Eve, and for companies that have to choose between the permitting of many and a wage support they feel are not getting well enough, this can go hard on many workers. Many young people — students with part-time jobs and young low-paid employees — are now aware of the consequences. Home offices are possible for many, but some simply cannot move their job home. They also need to meet with offers of empowerment that make them even better rested in the workplace when the restrictions are lifted and jobs come back. These are changes that happen with a high degree of unforeseeableness, and we have therefore also expected to happen outside the usual budgetary processes. For the right, it is important to put in place schemes that provide more security for people. One of the last Solberg government did was to present its proposal to the government budget for 2022. This is a budget that continued a line that the four non-socialist parties have carried on over the eight years we jointly were responsible for governing this country. It's worth remembering what we did in the eight years: We have continued efforts to combat long-term unemployment and youth unemployment, including: by focusing on labour market measures in Nav and making long-term unemployed and young people a priority group in Nav's work. We have established youth efforts from 2017 across the country and have set targets for young people under 30 years of age to receive job, education, work training or other work-oriented assistance within eight weeks. We have set up a new labour market measure with grants to employers who take in young people who need job-oriented assistance for summer jobs. There were about 2,000 new summer jobs in 2021. We have amended the legislation to increase the use of wage subsidies and work training in ordinary activities. The changes have increased the use of wage subsidies to close to twice between 2013 and 2021. We have made changes to the AAP scheme to increase labour input and to improve follow-up, so that more people get to work faster. We have introduced an activity obligation for social assistance recipients under 30 years of age, including Norwegian training requirements for beneficiaries of economic social assistance if there is a lack of Norwegian skills to prevent them from entering the labour market. We have made legislative proposals that will make it easier to combine daily allowances with education and training. We promoted a big message about outsiders in June 2021. This includes measures to prevent people from falling permanently away from work, activity and education, such as: to focus more on new and innovative measures and to launch work-oriented disability-related attempts. This message was unfortunately drawn by the new government, but we can promise that the Right will raise many of these proposals here in the Storting. We have removed the leave obligation for government employees with special age limits, so that close to one third of public sector employees can choose even if they want to work according to age limits, and not be commended to the employer’s decision. We've given pensioners tax reliefs of about 5 billion. kr and increased minimum pension in five rounds for a total of NOK 21 000 in the period 2016-2021. We have reduced the curtailment of the pension for married and cohabited people with a total of about NOK 8 000 for a couple. We've strengthened the child's pension for abandoned children. We have made proposals to increase the general age limit in the country to 72 years, as it is in the Working Environment Act. Unfortunately, this was drawn by the new government. We have expanded the system of free core time in kindergarten and extended the moderating arrangements. We have introduced income graded parental payment into the SFO of 1–4. Steps and free SFOs for students with specific 5-7 needs. steps. We have increased child benefit by a total of NOK 7,200 per year for children up to the age of 6. We have strengthened housing support for families with children and large households. We have established a national grant scheme for the inclusion of children and young people from low-income families, allowing 50,000 children in low-income families to participate in holiday and leisure activities. The blue thread of the Right Labour and Social Policy can be summarised as follows: We believe education and competence are the key to work. That's why we need to have a good school, but also more opportunities to get a diploma or a letter through our lives. It is therefore incomprehensible that the new government, as one of its first steps, cut out the experiment of organised higher education. We're going to meet all those who are struggling to get to work, with activity and expectations, but it also has to come with help and support. That is why it is a pity that the majority stopped the proposal for changes to the curtailment rules in the disability benefit, because they also deprived more people of the right to help themselves to work from the first crown earned. We have to set up proper arrangements for those who need to be organized. That's why it's sad that the new majority removed our efforts to educate up to 25 more deaf interpreters, which would mean a lot to them. The interpreting area is currently under heavy pressure and hearing-impaired people are being denied a necessary means of education or employment. To quote Morten Buan in the Landsförbund of Hørselshinderedes Landsförbund when the supplementary proposition came – I took out the first, because it is unparliamentary, but then: ‘To many, the interpreter is the door opener of community participation. This is an attack on hearing impaired people in Norway.’ We must be uncompromising about the crime of working life. People are entitled to be treated with respect at work, and the exploitation of people or theft of wages is to be punished. That is why we also set up seven a-krim centres and proposed an eighth in Alta in this budget. It is also important because of the challenges posed by the fishing industry. We do not believe that the solution is to make a general ban on, for example: the entire manning industry or the elimination of access to temporary employment. Those who break the Working Environment Act will really notice the consequences. That is why I can already notify several proposals from the Right to tough measures against those who break the law. Up towards the Right Line for inclusion, that it should pay to get to work, and a proper safety net stands a single left side. The most important thing is to increase the benefits for those who lack a job, rather than to give more opportunities to get to work. On the left, the most important thing is to regulate labour market rigidity where it works well, rather than focusing on those who actually break the rules. Right can promise to be both constructive and solution-oriented in the committee, but we're also going to be able to recognise in our policies that more people are going to experience the most important well-being that exists: having a bad time in the morning, that some people are calling and asking where it is going to be, the feeling of enjoying a weekend or taking a vacation and being able to support themselves with their own wages. This is why the main social policy of the Right is that even more people are going to work. Finally, I would just like to give an explanation of vote. The right will vote in favour of proposal No. 4th from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e456	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e461	The representative Asheim mentioned the security of people in his post, and now we're going to meet an uncertain Christmas, but hopefully we can enjoy the summer. The Labour Party, with our governments, has introduced holiday money for the unemployed, first at Prime Minister Nordli, who was then removed by the Bondevik government, of which the Right was part. It was then reinstated by the government of Stoltenberg and removed by the government of Solberg. Now, with Prime Minister Jonas Gahr Støre, the Central Party and the Workers' Party are to reintroduce a new permanent scheme for holiday pay for the unemployed. If the Right gets power again, will they leave the holiday money scheme alone this time?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e470	Let me first just show you a little bit to the representative, Rotevatern's post. It is probably SV who reintroduces holiday pay for those who are unemployed now, and that is not what the government proposed. Even the Council of State said that it would be irresponsible economic policy to introduce this. So SV should have that honor – all the time the Workers' Party takes credit for it. So the question is whether we're going to change this if – not if, but when – we get back to government. It has not been given that we should then return to the system that we originally put in place. I sincerely believe that it was a better system, simply because it was about giving real time for vacations for those who were long-term unemployed, rather than the model that the Workers' Party is now reintroducing together with the SV and the Center Party, which means that you pay daily allowances to people who are back at work. There's a disagreement about that. But when it's said, it's clear that we're going to make new policies for the next period, and then we'll see what the voters say. I believe that, after all, we must ensure that we have a holiday money package that actually meets those who are unemployed, not those who have been unemployed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e479	Now I have noticed that the Right has both taken on budgetary conciliation with other parties themselves, and not least proposals here in the Stortinget that they have been put on against their votes, so there are many who are happy to take ownership of policies that you either agreed to sooner or later. But one of the things that the Workers' Party put into the extra proposition that we're proud of, in addition to the things that we agreed with SV about, is this increase in redundancy money of 770 million. kr extension until summer. Asheim was about how people need closer follow-up from Nav, how we're going to get people ready for work, but for too many, it's so that they've been cleared up to uncertainty and poverty while the Right has been in power. People have ended up in social assistance, may have had to sell cars and houses to get support. Does the representative Asheim see any negative consequences of the way in which they have worked on redundancy payments and that performance?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e488	I think it would be above all arrogant of some representative or party in this room to say that the redundancy money has worked optimally on our guard. This is actually something we have to work quite thoroughly with, and I have to say that I look forward to receiving a message from the Council of State about just changes within this scheme. Here I think we're all going to be humble enough to say that here it might be necessary to make adjustments. Then it is also important to say that when the budget is presented, so that the AAP period is extended until the summer, there may be good arguments for it all the time it has been notified. What we've pointed out in comments on the Right side is just that there doesn't have to be a rest cushion to quickly clarify the ones that can be resolved. Because it is actually about someone getting disability benefit, and that someone is going to get help back to work, and therefore that pace must not fall. But we are going to be constructive and interested in the proposals that the government is also promoting, on changes in the AAP.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e495	The representative Asheim comes with strong attacks on the opponents and refers to many actions that the Right stands for. Nevertheless, it is a fact that the economic differences, taking into account all the factors, have increased from 2013. Difference Norway is created primarily by the way in which working life works. Unemployment is something we have to get rid of. It is most common among those with partial working capacity or with only a weak link to working life, and it is the result of an imbalance between supply and demand for workers. It is therefore important to control the labour market at large. Does the Right agree that a person should have slightly greater demand than offers in terms of workers in order to ensure full employment?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e502	Let me start by saying that I think one of the most important reasons why many people are out of work, and that businesses and businesses are struggling to get the skills they need has something to do with how we train along the way. For example, this is a case in point. to ensure that people get the diploma or certificate they need. It's about having a competence policy that allows you to upgrade knowledge along the way, and that people can be re-trained to the jobs we actually need. Then I understand the question from the representative so that we also have to ask ourselves whether there should only be demand or also the offer page that determines whether we get full employment. It is clear that we need people who have the right and the right education, but the fact is – and I have been responsible for higher education in Norway for a year and a half – that students are chosen quite wisely, and the educational institutions adapt quite quickly. But I'm very open to those who are going to hire people, too, being more concerned with how to create continuing training offers that are relevant for people coming to work. Then we have to have a scheme that makes it easier to combine being free or on leave to get an education.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e509	Instead, there was a discussion about redundancy payments and how to correct them. One tip I can come up with is to reverse the right-hand cut, the tightening of the arrangement and also to reverse the withdrawal period. But what I was thinking about was what Asheim's representative said in his speech that it was a pity to remove the abbreviation in the case of disability. Then I wonder – in all sincerity – whether the Right has not received the same feedback as all the other parties on the Stortinget have received from bad guys who fear that you can no longer work, who fear a round dance with Nav, and who also fear that you cannot afford to contribute as today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e516	Well, I have absolutely received them, and it is such that when you get such feedback from citizens and those who are involved in our policy, you have to listen. And we really have. My point, which I've also mentioned in rounds earlier in the hall, is: OK, that's okay, maybe we shouldn't do it this way. Now the majority have agreed to reverse that change. But the fact of that change was that it meant some other important things. First, you get help from the crown one earned to get to work. It is an important measure to enable more people to try their way out of work. It now disappears with the decision made by SV and the government parties – ok. The second is that the Employment Committee points out – and I think we need to be interested in this committee – that it serves as a threshold of 0.4G, which means that many do not work a little bit extra because it simply pays off so badly. Can we then look at other ways to make sure that these changes are made? I have asked the Council of State about this and received a slightly unclear answer as to whether we are going to have other proposals for changes, but I also believe that the left-hand side should be interested in how we can prevent these barriers and thresholds from being there.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e521	Over eight years with the Right in government, we were cut in the child supplement for the disabled, cut in holiday money for the day, cut in redundancy money, cut in glasses, and on the way out the door, they also proposed a cut in the amount of money for the disabled. The review melody was clear: poor and sick people should be motivated to work with whips and cuts. When healthy and rich people, on the other hand, are to be motivated by the Right to work, it's not about swinging the whip, it's about the carrot. Then there'll be bonuses, then there'll be tax cuts, then there'll be rewards. That's why I ask a completely open question: What's the reason that the representative Asheim and his party believe that poor people are best motivated by whips, while rich people are best motivated by carrots?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e527	I call that a loaded, wide-open question, because it is clear that we do not mean that either. In fact, there are several things at once. Firstly, I am absolutely convinced that making sure that it actually pays to work, through tax policy, has something to say. That's why we proposed to lower the tax for them under 30 years of low income. It was reversed by the left-hand side — no then, here the taxes are also for the young. I think I have something to say about whether it pays to work. The second thing is, how do we make sure that more people get to work? I think the disagreement between the representative Kristjánsson and me is that I think it's just a little far from unreasonable to say that if you're out of work and you're going to go in, you're going to go down to standard of living when you start working. I believe that getting to work must always pay off. That's why we're also going to have a real device around, because if you don't have the help measures, if you don't have the way to make sure people get the skills in place or to build the barriers to get to work, it just becomes a hunt for people. But if you can combine the fact that working always pays off, with a healthy and smart tax policy that makes it profitable to go to work, with measures that give people competence and help get to work, then you have a good cocktail.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e532	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e537	The need for security in a more troubled world is invoking us all. Norway has a new Labour Party-Center Party government for, and will strengthen, the community in Norway – arm Norway to face more demanding challenges. The size must therefore become more important, at the expense of market forces and Brussels. Market forces and the content of private ownership must be governed by the population of the Storting. The government, on the basis of a negotiated majority on the Stortinget, must exercise management that gives Norwegian citizens security in everyday life. Changes in society must be predictable so that people and businesses can have the necessary time to change. The Hurdal Platform of the Government provides full employment, tax on ability and social security schemes for those who cannot live on their labour income. It is very demanding now that we live in an unpredictable pandemic, which means that the authorities must intervene in the free movement of people in order to reduce and control the scope of infection. Security that our good health care system is able to treat those who get sick is essential. Therefore, businesses, maritime operators and employees must receive financial support in a balanced manner if they are affected by government restrictions, quarantine or disease. Here the government does a good job in demanding and constantly changing conditions. The remit of the Labour and Social Committee is to ensure a well-organised working life, including: through tripartite cooperation between country, employee and employer, as well as a work environment law clarifying what is illegal or lawful in the workplace. The Labour Inspectorate shall monitor compliance with the law. The budget agreement strengthens the financial performance of the Labour Inspectorate, and inspections at the workplace must be prioritised. The Committee is also responsible for social security, social services and pensions. The total expenditure of the public sector is budgeted for EUR 551.5 billion for 2022. kr. In order to put this in context, we need to be aware that the income side of the population's return in 2022 is budgeted with a social security contribution of 166.4 billion. SEK, employer’s fee of 214.1 billion. kr and other revenues of SEK 3,6 billion. NOK – in total SEK 384.1 billion. kr. So it's going to be 167.4 billion undercover. kr. Only to show the relationships: Budgeted VAT revenue is 360.5 billion. NOK 2022. This is to tell you something about the amount used for income hedges. In the budgetary agreement negotiated with SV by the Workers' Party and the Centre, there is a net cost for 2022 of 528 billion. kr. That's about a third of the entire state budget. It is far from everyone who is aware of this important fact. The ILO – International Labour Organization – in Geneva is the oldest organization in the United Nations, established in 1919. On a visit there in 2012, I learned how important security of income is to people's lives. Or, to put it another way: what problems do people living under a slightly controlled market economy have without the necessary social and economic security networks? This system, promoted by the IMF, the European Central Bank and the European Commission, creates greater problems for people. This is now giving rise to social unrest in several EU countries, with associated political unrest. The uncontrolled movement of workers — or flows — by the EEA Agreement connects Norway directly to these major political problems. The Centre Party will highlight the importance of a well-organised working life to provide full employment with Norwegian pay and employment conditions, as well as the security of income for people who are unable to live on their labour income. For 2022, our budget is 528 billion. kr, and I would like to claim that the responsibility of this committee is one of the biggest concerns for people’s daily safety – the security of having income to pay daily life’s expenses. These relationships are very conscious of the Center Party. The basis of values underlying this approach has historically proved to be the most robust to create stability and security for people under demanding societal changes. Yes, I would say it so strongly: it ensures the upswing of democracy. The situation today is no different. Cohesion, community and public information are now required to provide as much common reality as possible about what we stand up to, and what needs to be done. There's a need for power collection, that is, priority of what's most important to address and correct. The budgetary agreement negotiated between the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV is sovereignly best placed to respond to these challenges. This is because the Community is making it stronger through the budget. Greater justice is being pursued in economic conditions among people, while greater effort, hard work and initiative must be valued and stimulated. This provides the basis for maintaining and forging new generations of youth into alliances by people who respect and care for each other. This is one of the most important things for this government. The central party parole is that we have to stick to the work force. Labour immigration, which leads to permanent residence and participation in our daily social life, is good and necessary. The size of guest workers through manning companies must be limited. In order to be able to limit the growth of social benefits for people of pre-employment age, we need to control the labour market so that the demand for workers is slightly higher than the supply. Only this will make it easier for young people without work experience and for those with only partial working capacity to get income-bearing work. Therefore, when we are not in this situation today, as a result of uncontrolled labour immigration from the whole EEA area, the Centre Party is in favour of strengthening labour-qualifying measures, in relation to the Solberg Government – whether in support of vocational training or wage subsidies to enterprises that employ and pay wages and salaries to people with partial working capacity. However, we should be aware that the cost of the State budget will have to be much higher when we introduce more of these measures. We talk about large amounts every year to compensate for an imbalance. The Hurdal platform says on page 49 that the government will ‘provide that persons receiving redundancy benefits receive an extension if they are not completed by NAV or the health service’. In our opinion, this means a radical, positive change in favour of the AAP recipients, because the responsibility for progress in job clearance is placed on the public sector, not on the individual AAP recipients. It simply means a new view of human beings that requires a new regulatory framework and not least a new organisation of work in Nav. At the same time, we must insist that the AAP is a temporary arrangement. The first line in Nav, municipalities and urban areas is crucial and needs to be strongly strengthened by experienced professionals in order to follow up the AAP recipients during the clarification period. Clearance must be made as soon as possible and job-qualification measures must be implemented quickly. The representative, Tuva Moflag, referred to the 770 million increase. kr in the State budget, so that no AAP recipients will lose the income hedge until 1 July, which was a very important improvement. Otherwise, we have an important joint comment from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV on page 19 of the Innst. 15 S for 2021-2022: ‘Strengthening in the first line of Nav shall be based on confidence in the competence, increased staffing and delegation of more powers to the first line of service so that decisions can be taken as closely as possible to the user.’;» This should be agreed by all parties, as it was one of the main points of the entire Nav reform that was put into operation in the period 2006-2011. For pensioners, the Hurdal platform is also important. There it is said that the government will ‘grant pensioners’ organisations the right to negotiate in areas other than the regulation of pensions, thereby enabling them to discuss important issues in the field of older people’. The government, and the Workers' Party and the Center Party in Stortinget, are working on concreteising this wording in the Hurdal platform. In the budgetary agreement between the government parties and SV, the budget in our area was strengthened, and thus improved, for a number of groups of people who need community income protection. I would like to pay tribute to the work of the SVs and the negotiating parties on the budget at the crucial point. The removal of the shortening of child welfare in social assistance, which is a municipal benefit, is important to develop. This will be amended from 1 September. Brilliant aid will be increased, holiday money paid in 2021 will be granted in 2022. One restores the children's supplement for the disabled from 1 July and reverses the proposal for a modified abbreviation for the disabled, so that they can earn approx. 40000 kroner without moves in the disability benefit. These are very important proposals. In the end, I just want to raise a small matter, and it is that there are always people who have difficulties paying the electricity to their home. Now there'll be more. With today's high electricity prices it is important to restore personal contact between the Nav office in municipalities or urban areas and those sending out the electricity bills, so that the current line is not cut to the subscribers. Here, personal dialogue between the three parties – the one using the power, the power or network company and the local Nav office – needs to be established quickly so that a person can reach an agreement on the payment of the electricity bill without shutting down the flow. One has too many experiences with the tragic consequences if that were to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e591	I want to thank the Joint Committee for the work that has been done, and then we have to respect each other for having different views on the way to the goal. How good a country is to live in is often measured against how good welfare benefits we have, and how well we take care of those who have the least. The Progress Party is committed to ensuring good welfare arrangements and a sustainable welfare society, and our alternative state budget for 2022 is built up under these objectives. The Covid-19 pandemic has also created major challenges for Norway in 2021. The pandemic we've been in, and still standing in, creates economic uncertainty for the business world, which also has major ring-fences for individuals and the social economy. The Progress Party will therefore give priority to actions that secure Norwegian jobs and provide security for the everyday economy to people most. Work life must be safe, flexible and family friendly, with room for all. In order to ensure our welfare model for the future, the Progress Party believes that everyone should contribute according to their ability. The instruments must be set up in such a way that work always pays off. More and more people are out of work, and the number of older people will increase sharply in the years to come. The Progress Party's 2021 Alternative State Budget emphasises actions that will both maintain the objective of welfare performance and at the same time contribute to ensuring the sustainability of the schemes in the future. In addition to targeting income assurance schemes, the Progress Party prioritises raising the old-age pension. The old age pension shall contribute to giving all older people a worthy old age, based on acquired rights. The pension reform introduced in 2011, against the votes of the Progress Party, gave us some challenges. The reform’s regulatory model led to the age pension being subordinated by 0.75 p.m., resulting in the loss of value of the pension and the loss of purchasing power by the pensioners. After many years of fighting, this underregulation was removed this year. Through our government participation, we managed to compensate for parts of the weak income growth of the country's retirement pensioners by increasing the minimum pension several times, reducing the shortening of married and cohabiting spouses and reducing the overall tax burden. It has strengthened the country's pensioners' economy, but something remains. Married and cohabiting pensioners get their pension curtailed by 10 pst. Every year, something we think needs to be removed quickly. The Progress Party proposes in its alternative budget to increase the minimum pension by NOK 5000. We find it tragic that the country's minimum pensioners have more than ten thousand fewer lives to live for this year than is the EU's poverty line. The Progress Party is concerned that those who have the lowest pension will increase their pensions, as this is very important for the everyday economy. In the pension reform, it was assumed that future workers would have to work longer than current workers in order to achieve an overall retirement pension that the current pensioner has. If society is to be able to provide a pension to future generations equal to today's level, it is necessary that more elderly people are left to work. As a result, several changes have been made in recent years to help increase the number of people in work. In 2015, the upper age limit was changed from 70 to 72 years, and later the right to earn pension funds has been raised to 75 years of age. But this might change. If we are to have an expectation that older people will contribute more in the professional life, for the benefit of society, then social security needs to be changed so that they are entitled to ordinary health benefits and daily allowances, such as other workers who contribute and taxes to the community. If a secure future generation is to have a good pension, it is necessary to rely much more on the individual’s working capacity and to facilitate greater participation of seniors in society. Most people contribute if they can, but then we have to facilitate it by including, not excluding. As a result of the covid-19 pandemic, several of the country’s hospitals have had to redispatch resources from operating rooms and other medical activities to handle an increasing number of hospitalisations of people with covid-19. Many patients are experiencing an emergency, and waiting times are increasing, leading to the loss of entitlement to sick pay because one has gone over one year on sick pay. These persons then go from sick pay to redundancy pay. Work clearance money covers 66 pst. of previous income up to 6 G. This is a significant challenge for those involved. For the most part, it is about getting paid for their fixed expenses, such as housing, car and electricity. It is perfectly understandable that health businesses have a challenge to deal with the coronary apathy, but it is not fair that these people have to pay the bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e616	Would you like to make a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e621	Yes, I take up our suggestions in this regard.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e626	Then the representative Dagfinn Henrik Olsen drew up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e633	The undersigned would like to challenge the representative a little. I even had a conversation with someone who experienced how crushing it was to be far too long under the work clearance scheme, and how a reduced income made everyday life and life even more difficult. I would like to ask the representative why he thinks it is right to cut the redundancy payments further.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e638	We believe that it is right that the workline should be the guide, that it should always pay off to work. We think it makes sense to harmonise the benefits we have today in terms of redundancy payments, up to daily allowances.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e643	There were actually answers that were expected, and it takes me to what's really my question: if the Advance Party and the old bourgeois government had worked their policies for the working life line, their vision, why has it become after eight years of bourgeois rule a doubling of the number of young destitutes?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e648	We probably have to be honest with ourselves and say that it's not all the grips you do over time, which are necessarily the right ones, and that on the way to a goal you have to correct the course. It is unreasonable that very many young people end up in bad luck, and then we simply have to correct the course along the way. Then we think that focusing on working pay is the most important thing we can do for those who, hopefully, are going to get to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e654	The representative of the Progress Party said that everyone should contribute according to their ability. Now the Progress Party is not so happy with fees, nor is the Senter Party happy with it, but while we are happy with taxes in the Center Party, the Progress Party is not happy with taxes either. In our tax system, we have a personal tax on wealth and income, and it's progressive. When the representative says that everyone should contribute according to their ability, does this mean that the Progress Party supports progressive income taxation and progressive wealth taxation – with the changes that the government has now made – just to implement the representative's basic views?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e659	Now I guess I didn't say I signed in my post just tax on my ability. What the undersigned was focused on was that those who have the ability to contribute to the labour market should do so, but at the same time we believe that those who cannot necessarily be at work should have good benefits, so that they can live on them. But I talked about working ability, not tax ability.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e664	That was good, then we have been told that the Progress Party does not support taxes based on income and wealth, which we got in 1881, so here they have a little to deal with. But to the weakest: we have now been corrected the child supplement in the disability benefit, so that if the sum of disability benefits and child allowances is higher than the previous employee income, there should not be any shortening of the child supplement. For those people who are talking about here, in many cases the basis for disability is very low, and when, in addition, one is dissatisfaction after being in work, the ability to support the family becomes weaker. So does the Progress Party want to run the working line principle so far that the groups of people we're talking about here, with the kids, are going to be pushed down financially, as the right-wing government suggested?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e671	The progress batch assumes that the total performance of the disability and child supplement shall not exceed 90 pst. of the total previously employed income. It's because we think it's worth living in work, not living on benefits.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e676	There were a lot of fine words in the Olsens posts, about people most, about welfare, and about good benefits for those who are not at work. However, if you read what is in the representative Olsen and in the alternative budget of the Progress Party, there will be proposals to cut redundancies, cut child allowances for disabled people and cut transitional allowances for lone dependants. It follows the line that the Advance Party as part of the bourgeois majority has had for eight years. Yesterday I went uphill for the second time, so I am not going to teach anyone about traffic rules, but even I have been brought with me so that one cannot blink left and drive to the right. That's exactly what the Progress Party is doing over and over again when they come with this rhetoric, but at the same time they're making new proposals for social security. So my question to the representative Olsen is quite simply: what would he say to those who are in default and those who are on redundancy pay who will have less to go with if the policy of the Progress Party had been adopted here today?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e683	I would say to the representative, but also to those concerned, that we still have very good arrangements in the country, and we assume that the arrangements we will have in the future will also be sustainable. But at the same time they have to have an instinct: that it pays to be in work, not live on social benefits.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e688	Then you'll have the cord shift over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e693	In the last few days and weeks, thousands have gone out on thousands of permit warnings in outdoor life, travel and cultural life. Some of these have been properly withdrawn through the improved pay support system that was put in place yesterday, but there are still many low-paid people in the service sector and other industries who can look forward to an unemployed Christmas. Just so we have the numbers clear: the average salary for a full-time waiter in Norway is NOK 358 200. If he goes into the day-to-day allowance, he will be left with $23,000 per month. With the daily allowance we have as usual, with 62 pst. Coverage, we're talking about an annual salary of 222,000 kroner if you get a permit. This means that there are almost five unemployed waitresses on a payroll, and that's before you start counting on commuting, diet, double holiday pay, pay back, and everything else. Therefore, in its alternative budget, Red has committed itself to a permanent improvement in the day-to-day arrangements. The improvements that have been put in place in the day-to-day arrangements under the Coronapandemic have been correct and necessary and have been supported by a broad majority in this Chamber. But it doesn't make sense that it should be any easier to be unemployed than it is under the pandemic. If it's hard to live on a daily allowance of 62 pst. under the pandemic, is it not as difficult to live on that daily allowance if you become unemployed in normal times? One of the big things this fall for us all has been the free amount of disability, and I am probably not the only one who has received hundreds – if not thousands – of feedback about it. I am pleased that for the first time in eight years there have been improvements in social benefits and social security for sick, unemployed and injured people in Norway in this budget. It's an important turnaround. At the same time, we should not underestimate how huge it is, the reverse operation we have in front of us when we're trying to reintroduce the trust and dignity of the Norwegian social security system. This harvest has also been dominated by a number of scandals related to the travel accounts of politicians, after-sales, commuting homes, etc., in which case many politicians have argued that it may sometimes be difficult to understand which rules apply. I agree with the heart, but if you look at the way people who misunderstand the rules or make mistakes in the Nav system are treated, there is a balance between the treatment we give to them at the top that makes mistakes, and the treatment we give to them at the bottom that makes mistakes. I want to – because I aim to try to be a voice for some of the insured in Norway on this platform – to read out some of the feedback I have received in connection with just this with how hard Nav can be when you do something wrong. Here's one that says: I applied for redundancy money too late. I stood with my two-year-old in my arms by the bed of my husband on his deathbed. I had no money in the account, had spent thousands in the parking lot at the SUS, Stavanger University Hospital, where I spent long days with him and cared for him. Nav replied: 'Sin for you, that's the rules. Here's another one that says: My sister-in-law was rushed with potentially life-threatening side effects after a very large operation. She was then not sent a report card to Nav. She then called them and explained the situation. This is the answer she got from Nav: If you are not in a coma, there is no reason acceptable for Nav not to submit a report card. And then they took the money from her for a few months. Or a third: I had been under heavy cellular poison treatment and had to erase the memory and concentration, so the report card that had to be sent was in the car – out of sight, out of mind. I forgot to send it, simply. Nav then took me out of the system, and I did not discover the fateful error before the money was missing. It was just before Christmas, and as a single mother, it became quite a crisis. I called Nav in hopes to explain, get forgiveness and money for Christmas. I didn't get that. These stories are not unique. These stories exist thousands of thousands of them in the Norwegian social security system. There are stories that tell of a welfare state that is on serious wild roads, and that do not help those who need it the most, but on the contrary helps to exacerbate their suffering and problems by acting stiffly and with distrust. And if there's one task we're going to aim at doing the next four years in this committee and in this room, it just has to be to turn it upside down, so that we show people confidence and dignity again in the Norwegian social security system. I'm taking up the proposals from Red.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e718	The representative Mimir Kristjánsson has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e725	I have read with interest the alternative budget of Red, which increases the Labour Inspectorate's budget by another 20 million. limited to 40 new posts in the Labour Inspectorate. Inspectors of the Labour Inspectorate are paid according to the government’s pay regulation with a salary of between 550 000 kroner and 730000 kroner. In addition, allowances and benefits are provided for pensions. In the private sector, an annual salary plus 50 pst is calculated. position. Is it right to assume that one does not receive 40 new inspectors for 20 million? Do you really want to delete this item?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e730	Thank you for the question. It is certainly right to assume that one gets more inspectors with the alternative budget of Red than one sheep with the budget of the Workers' Party, because 20 million have been added. to the Labour Inspectorate at the top of the Workers' Party and of the other lots. Then I get the representative Sundnes’ questions to the Ministry of Finance, and if they have given us the wrong information, I am very sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e738	With yesterday's launch from Rødt's leader in the VG that Red is the new Workers' Party, it is reasonable to expect Red to know how workers are paid. Is there anything else in the alternative budget of the Red House that the representative, Kristjánsson, now wants to inform this House about, for example. the lack of containment in its own AAP proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e743	The representative, Kristjánsson, does not know that there are any approximate figures in the Red's budget, either on the Labour Inspectorate, the AAP or other arrangements. We have created a budget, like all other parties, in a perfectly normal way, based on the answers we get from the competent and unreserved government in Norway, which responds to all other parties and to us on the same line – we get to assume and hope. Our budget is, of course, well-balanced, as all other budgets are. I have previously been told by the Council of State of the European Parliament about the irresponsible economic policies of the Red Party, but the one reading the alternative budget of the Red Party will see that it is just as responsible – possibly irresponsible – as the budgets of all other parties are. No more oil money is spent in that budget than it does in the others, and it is financed mainly by taxing the richest in this country a little more, which the Workers' Party should also consider following the next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e748	The government recently announced that health students should help set up covid vaccines to speed up the vaccination of people with a third dose. The government's website says that students who want to contribute can register, and that they will then be contacted by a recruitment agency from their respective municipality. As you know, recruitment agencies are not a form of employment service that Red recognises — yes, Red actually wants to ban the entire industry. Does Red see the value of using all the good forces in society when the need arises?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e753	Red thinks there's a hundred other ways to solve that kind of problem than through commercial recruitment agencies. The representative, Molberg, says that we don't recognise recruitment agencies. After all, we recognise the existence of commercial recruitment agencies, and of course they play a role in the labour market with employment services in the system we have today. But we think, like the rest of the trade union movement, that there's a bad way of conveying labour. We believe in a working life with full, permanent jobs, where non-commercial employment agencies are responsible for ensuring life-saving labour for example. health tasks. If work for everyone is job number one, as a number of parties here say – at least when there is a campaign – it is assumed that it should not be up to a few private recruitment agencies to provide work for people, but that it should be a public task. In any case, the public health service must be able to obtain labour by other means than being awarded to commercial employment agencies.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e762	I live in the sense of reality that Red will permanently overwhelm both the government parties and SV in agreements that concern our area, while Red is satisfied with the line we stand for. But Red goes further. My question is about the stories that the representative Mimir Kristjánsson referred to. He said the stories are not unique. I fully agree that stories are not unique. Therefore, in the Hurdal platform we have strong formulations about Nav, about the reorganisation of Nav, and that the government will support that municipalities that want to reopen Nav offices can do so, ensure that the opening hours of Nav offices ensure good accessibility for all users and build the management of Nav on trust in the competence of employees and delegate more authority to the first line. Does the representative of the Red agree with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e771	That is the agreement of the representative of the Red Group. And the representative from Red sees with great joy the change of course that has happened when we have got a new majority on Stortinget after eight rather blue years. We have actually had a long period in Norway — through changing governments — where the social security system has been driven by mistrust and where the welfare state has been squandered in a variety of areas. Now it seems as if there has been a change of course that makes us slow, but surely can start to reintroduce confidence in the welfare system and in Nav, and that we can slowly, but surely start building up the welfare state again. And then the representative Lundtigen is quite right in saying that Red will normally overtake the government – and of course also in this area. That is why we have spent even more money on jobs in Nav in our alternative budget, just to strengthen the first line and the other good formulations that lie in the Hurdal platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e778	SV and Red are socialist parties that want a greater degree of redistribution and want a greater degree of taxation and a stronger well-being. But that's something that separates the proposals of our parties to the budget, and it seems particularly at the point of redundancy. For SV, it is important to show that we want to cover up the cuts that have been made, and we do that with real money. We also want to work to make those changes so that they become people's reality and changes in the systems. But to our great surprise, we have recorded that Red does not have enough money for his own work clearance money in his own budget, where, after all, everything is prioritised all by himself. The representative, Kristjánsson, has previously praised the Ministry of Finance for its excellent calculation. Then I wonder why you haven't used the real numbers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e783	The representative Bergstø turns this completely on his head. Red has given far more money to work clearance money in its budget than both what was inside the government originally, and what has come out of the agreement through the Hurdal platform. This is because, like SV, Red wants both to reverse all the cuts that have come into redundancy from the previous government, and also the ambition that is currently an ambition, but which we all hope has a goal to achieve, namely that people should be able to be on redundancy until they are finished. It has been spent on money in its budget, and we look forward to implementing it, hopefully together with a large majority in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e788	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e793	In the part of the budget that we are now discussing, there are some of the most important tools we have to give people access to work, qualification to work, social security and care if a fall on the outside of work. For us in the Left, the starting point is that although welfare schemes are part of securing income and are to be sanctioned, it is not the ones that solve the poverty challenges in society. That's the income from work that does. It is the most important source of income — fortunately — for most households, and the goal must always be that all those who can work have the opportunity to work. In the left, we believe that people want to succeed in their own lives with the goals they see themselves, and that the most important thing we can do is to pursue a policy that gives people the most opportunity to just seek to achieve the goals. The left has worked for several years in Stortinget to include more in our working life. We have made extensive changes to make sure that more people complete further education, because we know that it works. We've changed the introduction system so that more people can use the resources they have, and get an offer tailored to their goals and background. We have put forward our own strategy to improve the quality of Nav's supply for jobseekers who need to qualify, because it is important that we not only increase the number of places of action, but that we also have shortages and quality in those services. In the government, we have strengthened cooperation between Nav and employers, both through market work in Nav and through increased use of payroll and inclusion allowances, to take the risk together with employers and pay agencies that have added people outside the labour market. Not least, we have made more demands on the public sector to have objectives of being inclusive employers, because we know how important it is to make sure that those with the CV have a chance in their working life. The pandemic has at least the hardest. The selection that looked at living conditions in cities is concerned about the long-term consequences the crisis will have for living conditions and segregation right there. There is a danger that the crisis will strengthen inequality in the long term. The selection concluded that negative effects under the pandemic are greatest for those living in live-life-stricken areas. Several of the services providing assistance to outsourced residents in need of assistance and security have also had a reduced capacity under the coronary crisis, and some will need more help than others in the future. Therefore, we must be willing to target actions against those with the greatest needs. That's what we're busy about in the Left, although it can mean that we can't always expand and implement new, universal welfare arrangements that are less targeted. Many of those who work in the industries that have been the hardest frame of containment and infectious measures are those who are at risk of poverty, precisely because the catering and outdoors industry is good at including people with free employment, often with low formal education or training in the CV. Now it's the same industry being shut down again. They wanted a pay-as-you-go scheme. The local government thought it would be a good idea to put it in place. When she got in place, she was too weak. Now it has been improved, but still it is far from good enough, not least because the companies are faced with a choice that is permitting or not permitting – no combinations, no flexibility. When the solution was presented, the Minister of Finance said that we should not discuss the permitting mechanism. We're not going to do that, but it's not a good policy measure that the most people are going to be permitted. The demonstration that was in Eidsvoll's place out here on Saturday showed clearly that the workers would rather have their jobs, and that they would rather have payoffs and the possibility of it than being permitted. There are basically two different budget proposals we are discussing. In the view of the Left, the draft budget presented by the Solberg Government was good in this area. In some areas, unfortunately, the new government has been swayed. This applies, for example: the attempt to facilitate training for elephants at risk of escaping from continuing school. We know that completion of school is one of the most important things to achieve the goal of life, to get to work, to get into further education. The fact that one of these cuts in targeted efforts, we find ourselves sad and basically incomprehensible. In addition, there are various targeted schemes that we proposed, whether it is about help for interpreting services, young people falling outside the labour market, or what it might be. It is also the lemp of a number of other schemes, largely as a result of the budgetary agreement with SV, but unfortunately little is funded with long-term income. We'll get back to the budget next year and see how it's going to be financed, whether it's increasing oil money consumption or an even higher tax level.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e810	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e816	First of all, I have to say that the claims that there has now been a slow turn of events are a little strange when comparing the two weeks we have spent on setting up a pay compensation scheme, with the two months spent by the previous government to come up with measures. But that's not what I'm going to ask. What I'm going to ask you is still related to the pandemic and the corona. Eight months ago, the representative, Mr Rotevatn, said that it was right to cut the sickness fund, the pandemic or one. Now we're back on track. In a situation where people should be home when they are sick: Does the representative Rotevatn still think it is right that it should be more expensive for people to be home when they are infected than to go to work?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e821	I think that the Left and I believe that the Labour Party are doing the same thing, I hope at least, that the arrangements we are rigging ourselves with under a crisis situation – with advice other than usual for the population, with strict rules on infectious diseases, among other things. that one should be home if one knows the smallest sign of being cold – is a little different from what we usually have. I think the Labour Party agrees. If the Labour Party agrees, I don't understand why the representative Vereide asks the question the way he does. But when it comes to a normal situation, I think it's important to take over that Norway still has the highest sickness absence in the world. It is much higher than in our neighbouring countries, and there is no other way to explain it than that we have other arrangements than any other country, including the United States. full pay compensation from one day to one year. We don't have that for any other system in our social security system. Because we have it for that system, it's not quite easy to understand, with the bad results we see.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e826	In the essay where the representative Rotevatn was quoted, it was quite clear that it was independent of pandemic, but it is very happy that this is corrected, if not more. The follow-up question is about how we equip ourselves both under pandemics and outside pandemics, whether it's about technological change or other. We in the Workers' Party believe that an organized working life is crucial to happiness both in pandemic management and in overall conversion. Why does the representative Rotevatn think it's right to freeze the union deduction instead of making it a little more reasonable and convenient for people to organize themselves in trade unions?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e831	The level of the trade union deduction we have now had, and the level for which the Left has stood, is the same as that of the trade union deduction last Labour Party put into government. If one is to interpret the representative Vereide word law, it means that when the Labour Party was in government last, one was against an organized working life, then the arrangements were not good enough. I don't think it's reasonable to assume that's what the representative thinks. I don't think it's like measuring the degree to which one is for an organized working life or not, on the size of tax spaces to be organized as a trade union. The left hand side is for an organized working life. We observed and registered that the last time an extended trade union deduction, it was unable on a research basis to show that it led to an increase in the level of organisation. Nor has the government shown that happened then, or that will happen now. There is an assumption that has not been shown to vote historically. But we're going to have to hope that it's right now, because I'm going to get more professionals organized. I hope this leads to a rush of people who want to join trade unions, but unfortunately there is nothing from Norwegian history that indicates that it will happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e838	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e843	The aim of this government is for more people to come to work, for safe jobs to go to, and not least for workers to gain more power over their own everyday lives. The disease situation is currently quite demanding, especially because of the new mutation omicron. Developments in the future are uncertain. The government has put in place very stringent measures to protect the infection and we see that it is necessary to follow the situation closely and to monitor the infection situation. What's important to me is to stress that people and businesses are going to experience that the security network is there for them. The government proposes to pass on the exceptional rules for daily allowance, sick pay, care and redundancy benefits in 2022 – both to help prevent infection from spreading and to mitigate the negative economic consequences of the pandemic for both individuals and businesses. Many are still at risk of being permitted, and the job opportunities for people who are already out of work can be exacerbated. There are still significantly more long-term unemployed now than it would be in a normal situation, and many of those who are long-term unemployed belong to a group that feels it is difficult to find a foothold in working life. The situation is going to be demanding for quite a few of the next few days. For this government, work for all jobs is one, and with the temporary extension of the corona arrangements in 2022, the government has, among other things, the government. proposed strengthening labour market measures and creating more places during permanent work. We also strengthen Nav's staffing to provide room for closer follow-up of people outside the labour market, and not least to manage areas under pressure or with a high need for development. The serious and organised working life of Norway is challenged by unprofessional actors, social dumping and low levels of organisation. This leads to an increase in the use of workers, and it weakens the Norwegian model. In particular, it may also weaken the recruitment of more important professions. It is therefore important that the Labour Inspectorate has sufficient capacity to overcome unprofessionalism and social dumping. The government emphasises that the Labour Inspectorate must be visible and present where the challenges are greatest. In addition to the proposal to create a new a-krim centre in Alta and to provide the Labour Inspectorate with money for further control of infectious diseases at work, the Government proposes to strengthen the Labour Inspectorate by an additional 20 million. kr. It will strengthen supervisory capacity in order to increase the level of efforts to tackle unprofessionalism and social dumping. So the government also suggests increasing the hallucinations of the Petroleum Authority. Although the risk of major accidents and the number of serious events shows a long-term more positive trend than before, there is still a need to follow these developments closely. The Government proposes to strengthen the basic capacity and competence of the department. It is about strengthening the safety of the petroleum industry, an important nourishment for the country, among other things. by facilitating post-event learning and by increasing capacity for investigation and other follow-up of the Petroleum Authority. We have also placed emphasis on organised working life, and we propose through this budget to double the trade union deduction over the next two years. It's important because organized working life is a good thing for all of us, not just for the individual organized, because it contributes to a working life with lower levels of conflict and higher productivity. Not least, organised working life is also our first-line defence against unprofessional work, social dumping and a safer working day for everyone. As a result of the Hurdal Platform, the government will ensure that the period for people who receive work clearances is extended if they are not completed. We have started a work to evaluate how this will be followed up, and it could potentially have consequences as of 1 July 2022. The government looks forward to presenting its proposal for changes to the laws as soon as possible. Then we have also warned that we would like to improve the spectacle support system. In the budgetary agreement between the Government Party and the Swedish Government, we were told to strengthen the spectacle support by 220 million. NOK 2022. With this reinforcement I am sure that we will find solutions that will include far more groups than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e864	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e869	The Council of State said in its statement that it is important to ensure that more people come to work. I think we can agree on that in this room. But in order for more people to get the opportunity to complete school and education, but also to get to work, some extra help and tools are needed to do just that. For example, we know that many of those who struggle with hearing need to interpret, and in the last two budgets, the Solberg government put money into 59 new educations. The Working Party, the Centre Party and the SV joint cutters in this entry. When the Council of State knows that there were 5,300 unsolved interpreting missions only in 2021, why does she think it was a good idea to cut the interpreting service by 15 million. Do you really want to delete this item?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e876	It is important for this government that everyone is given the opportunity to complete further education and to build on further education, if one wishes. This government, not least in the Hurdal Platform, has seen the need to have more efforts to take care of young people entering the labour market. with the design of a youth guarantee, and not least an activity reform for young people with a job guarantee. Clearly, we will also look more closely at the need for more interpreters, but it also needs to be seen in a larger context, so that we can ensure that each individual youth receives the follow-up that he or she needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e883	As I concluded in my article, it is currently – and you can see it in the media – that operating rooms are being shut down and healthcare companies are redeploying their resources. In the next round, people who have been waiting for surgery for a long time are now being shifted out into the process, with the result that they go from sick pay to redundancy pay. What does the Council of State think about this situation, and in what way does she see that it is possible to make an advance in keeping them in the system of which they are, since this concerns economic consequences?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e890	There is no doubt that there is a very demanding situation for quite a large number of infectious diseases measures in place, and with the limitations that some people can impose on the possibilities of being at work, even if they wish to be at work and try out their jobs and not least get a stronger foothold in their working life. I can only answer for some of the things that happen within my own budget, but one of the things that I have contributed to, together with my colleagues in the government, is that retired health professionals should be able to contribute to the cavid handling without shortening the pension. It will be possible for the health care system to handle more than they might otherwise have been able to handle. It will also enable them to follow up on issues and problems that are not just covid-related.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e898	The Council of State mentioned in its statement the importance of strengthening the hub and strengthening the Labour Inspectorate, and it is very gratifying that this is happening. At the same time, it is essential that employees who work in the hub, work supervision and other parts of government public service experience that they can work in a way that meets their needs, rather than having target management. Then I wonder: How do employees and trustees in the departments – through work, governance, letters of assignment – notice that there is a new political majority in place that seems important to strengthen with sufficient time, people and also trust in the work, hopefully to replace target management?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e903	This government will carry out a trust reform in the public sector, and for me it is particularly important to have it carried out in Nav. I'm going to start by reviewing the Nav measurement and control parameters. I want to do that with the path and add it, to make sure that it's only the measurement parameters that are most needed, which are the ones that continue to be the parameters of a user. The letter of assignment for 2022 will start to reform trust. It will consist of more premises, but among other things. it will be about providing greater room for expertise for them to add. It will be a matter of increasing the use of the Norwegian working life model where the rentals and the additions are more embarrassing. It will also give them greater space in Nav to influence their own working day, and all this will be about ensuring the quality of meeting with the users better than what one has done so far. In addition, we have contributed to an additional operating budget in Nav.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e910	Through the pandemic, the Stortinget has adopted several improvements in the day-to-day arrangements, improvements which have also been extended by the Council of State and the Government to apply initially in January. It comes from a recognition that you know that living on 62 pst. in respect of past receipts of daily allowances is not particularly easy for very many, especially not too many low wages. What is strange, however, is that there does not appear to be any initiative from the government to permanently improve the day-to-day payment system. What is the reason why it should be easier to be unemployed from a low-paid position to normal than when it is pandemic? Is it simply because you think that those who are unemployed are more responsible for being unemployed?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e915	We have contributed to changes in the day-to-day pay legislation, and they make it easier for more people to get daily pay now in the exceptional situation of infection prevention measures, which frame quite a lot in small job breaks or in part-time settings. We know that when the restaurant and catering industries are forced to shut down or partially shut down, there are many in the industries that have very small job breaks and therefore need easier access to daily money. But I would like to stress that this and an increased daily allowance are just about that there is an exceptional situation, and that quite a few of those who feel that they have to go on a daily allowance do not have any other real job opportunities because the authorities have imposed infection protection measures and restrictions that make it impossible for a person to search or get other types of jobs. That's what distinguishes this extraordinary situation from what would have been an ordinary situation. I would like to stress that the ordinary daily allowance code is also a good piece of legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e920	In a reply here a month ago, the Council of State Tajik was challenged by the representative Kristjánsson about why one in the government's additional number did not find room for what the Workers' Party had promised them to find room for, including holiday money for those who go on the day-to-day, spectacle support, child supplement for the disabled, the start of dental reform, SFO, etc. The answer from the Council of State Tajik at the time was that it was because the Labour Party is conducting a responsible economic policy. It's actually an answer it says respect, and it was honest. So maybe there's a little less respect for the fact that one goes to elections on something a month later I think is financially irresponsible. But now this has been changed in comparison with SV. Now these systems are in place, and then we're going to think that it's being financed in a responsible way, simply through increasing long-term incomes, but it's not. It is financed by temporary extraordinary income in exchange from Statkraft due to high electricity prices. Has it done what we are going to adopt today, more responsibly?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e927	I would like to be taught by others how to drive safe economic governance, but not by the representative Rotevatn or the party Left. When they have sat in government or negotiated budgets, they themselves have taken exchange from Statkraft in its nighttimes. They themselves have the incentive to throw all of a sudden taxes on people to get their budgets to jump. After they have negotiated new budgets, the Left Party has stood and boasted that they have turned up the CO 2 tax, while the Progress Party has boasted that they have turned down the user fee, so that they have zeroed the political stakes of each other in total and completely. The Labour Party, SV and the Centre Party will at least in the same direction. We have somewhat the same analysis of power on the basis of the political priorities that we are making. I'm proud that the budgetary agreement we have made with SV, I'm glad that a person cares for even more of what's important for life and the wallets for ordinary people. Then I would like to stress that there are always holistic economic assessments that determine whether it is safe economic governance or not, and I'm glad that in fact has allowed other holistic assessments now than they did a few months ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e937	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e942	Workers in Norway deserve safe jobs. They deserve a working life that builds them up and doesn't break them down, a working life to live with your whole life, until you retire. The budget of the Labour Inspectorate is strengthened in order to strengthen the capacity of the Labour Inspectorate, including guidance, supervision and control aimed at unprofessionalism and social dumping. At the same time, the increase in funding will increase the presence and visibility of the major challenges. From the Committee's point of view, the expectation of a significant increase in physical inspections is underlined. This is also in line with feedback from social partners. Very serious conditions are reported from many parts of the world of work. In addition to the many cases in the construction industry, there are among others: the private welfare industry in the wind, ultimately through the very extensive judgment in the Stendi case. After more than three years of legal conflict between Stendi and 22 members of the Trade Union, the right has come to the conclusion that there has been a very large breach of the Working Environment Act and other key laws. There is reason to believe that Stendi is not alone in the business model that they have adopted – the reason enough for the Labour Inspectorate to see the industry more closely in the cards. Over the year, the number of supervision has gone down steadily, from 17 939 supervision in 2015 to 12 362 supervision in 2019. In the year 2020, the figure was down to 9,606, and nearly 300 of these were so-called postal supervision. During this period, the number of alerts received on critical issues has increased. During the period from 2015 to today, the number of inspectors in the supervision prevention department has decreased. A build-up of the number of inspectors on supervision and a commitment to their skills related to professional inactivity is important in order to achieve the objectives of the Labour Inspectorate and Government. The a-krim work works with actors whose business method is to circumvent Norwegian legislation. Thus, each case requires more resources. There is a need to obtain sufficient evidence to predict regulatory breaches, and observations and extensive document reviews need to be used much more frequently than just a few years ago. After eight years with the Solberg government, the Labour Inspectorate’s management process is angled to target and result management to such a degree that it bears the mark of ‘new public management’. It makes supervisory tasks more difficult and it reduces the number of supervision tasks. There must be a balance between registration and reporting and the benefits of these registrations, and I am particularly pleased that these challenges are addressed through a trust reform in the public sector, which has been promised by Minister of Labour Tajik today. With this budget, long-term cleaning work begins in the labour market. Unfortunately, it takes more than one year to clean up after the Solberg party, but the job starts with this government and with good cooperation with the social partners – for the benefit of workers, who deserve safe jobs. They deserve a working life that builds people up and doesn't build them down.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e959	Working for more is our most important job. That's why we started on the Right Watch Inclusion. People outside the labour market for various reasons need to be better included and helped out in the job. One of the most basic things for us human beings and our dignity is to use our abilities and contribute where we can. Whether you have impaired function, holes in the CV or minority background, our message must be clear: You are needed. Everyone has experience and competence that society needs. If we're going to get more people to work, we're going to have to set up the tools. Wages and salaries subsidies are one measure that was strongly strengthened on the Right Guard. 3,000 more permanent jobs and our proposal for at least 1,500 new ones is different. But if we're really going to succeed in bringing down the differences and helping people at work, we have to tackle the underlying drivers behind the differences. There is a clear link between not having completed high school and not getting into work. That is why we were on the Right Guard for a big effort on completion that contributed to the sharp rise. That is why we proposed over 32 million in the budget. kr to a pilot scheme that would contribute to the organisation of advanced training for several Nav users. Unfortunately, SV, the Center Party and the Workers' Party now remove this bet with a pen stroke. It's a pity for all those who stand outside and want to enter education and work. Completion of school is important, but how can one complete school if one does not hear or know what is being said? That's how it works for Kaia. She is born deaf and is dependent on interpreters to complete the school, but she experiences a day-to-day where she is standing repeatedly without interpreters and these of education, group work and discussions that take place. Only this year, Nav has lacked interpreters for 5,300 assignments. It prevents completion in higher education and prevents participation in work. It can't be like that. On the Right Guard, therefore, we strengthened the service, and in the last two budgets, we set aside 59 new interpreters to provide greater accessibility, more predictability for people and better quality of service. It was therefore a great surprise for both user organisations and the Right when the Workers' Party, the Center Party and SV started the government administration by applying a net cut of 15 million. kr. This will mean that more will be refused interpreters, that planned activities will have to be cancelled and that active participation in society will be prevented. The result is more social withdrawal, isolation and solitude and less community among people. We need a greater effort for increased implementation in higher education and more in work, but unfortunately, in the implementation of higher education, and cut off the interpreting service just two of many examples of unsocial cuts from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV that make it harder for people to get back to work. It's probably a reminder of why we need a strong Right and a government shift, because working for more is our most important job.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e972	In the daily life that every day lives far from this hall, there is a wide range of people. Everyone is different, and most people have different needs. Some of those living around the country need contact with Nav from time to time. As elsewhere in the population, Nav's users are also a picture of the wide range of people. Here you have everything from computer experts who live without paper, to those who have about allergy to the touch phone. Some are in the wave valley of life; others are on the shadow side of life. But everyone is entitled to the same services. Some say that, unfortunately, evolution has gone from a human meeting to a screen meeting and a society where we are not going to talk – a colder society. It is not certain that recent developments will benefit Nav's users, and perhaps not the result that we politicians are concerned with, and that Stortinget wanted with the creation of Nav. The consumer of Nav who actually needs an open door, who does not have good digital skills, and who is perhaps not the most forward in demanding, is the big loser in the Nav system and its development. I am extremely pleased that this government will support municipalities that want to reopen the Nav office, can do so, and ensure that the Nav offices' opening hours are more user-friendly, and that we strengthen the first line in Nav. We in the Center Party are known for the coffee cup and the good conversation, and maybe Nav should be too. In my view, it is far from certain that we get the best results when we make the decisions far from them. I believe that those who sit in Nav and meet the people need more authority to help their clients, and not those who sit in a central office across the country. It's not all bad to be able to get a job in the community we live in. That's why, as a big community, we are obliged to help. Permanent work, VTA, is one of the arrangements Nav is responsible for. Here we help those who need a little bit more to get a job to work. We give them a meaningful everyday life, perhaps a more worthwhile life. In the budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, it was agreed that the VTA sites would be further escalated and with a calculation technical increase of approximately 250 places. The government of Solberg had also added 250 seats, so there will be 500 more seats in one year. The centre batch will continue to work to increase the number of spaces in the VTA in the years ahead. We want a seamless transition from high school to VTA for those who need it. Unfortunately, growth has not been high enough in VTA sites in recent years, but fortunately, the trend now appears to be reversed. The Solberg government started in its state budget, and the new government doubles, and then came Right, Christian People's Party and Left and handed over in its additional proposal. It is gratifying that there will be a broad majority on the Storing to increase the number of VTA sites in the future. It is amazing that the previous government did not see this as valuable both for the individual and for the great community. Without a job to go to, without a school to learn about or lack of financial arrangements to live by, people are being broken down. We can't have it like that. What worries me and the Center Party is that the increasing differences affect those who already have the least. It has almost become a mouth hole that we owe on covid-19 when more than ever queue in the Nav system, people become throwing balls in the system, people don't get the clarification they're waiting for, and public Norway doesn't get the job done. It shall not affect the population of Norway. Some call it exclamation, other increased social differences. Regardless of name, one of the biggest challenges in our society is that no more are resolved in the Nav system and are out of work. Children do not have the financial security they need to get on with life. In the budget we take some action, but that's not enough. In the time ahead of us, we must dare to seize, so that the queues in Nav become shorter and the dignity of these people returns. Finally, I would like to highlight an important aspect of this budget, and a unanimous Labour and Social Committee has underlined its importance in a note on the quality of life and the quality of life of people with disabilities. The SSB has been commissioned by Bufdir for the first time to produce and publish official living statistics on the situation of persons with disabilities. The statistics produced in 2020 relate to persons with disabilities who use technical aids on a sustainable basis or who have been granted disability benefits, basic benefits or ancillary benefits. In the coming years, both the habitat and sample statistics will be expanded. This is a matter that the Center Party has been very concerned about, and I'm glad that an overall committee is behind the comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e995	There are many people in Norway who are in a difficult situation. We have a serious pandemic situation – it's not over. Unemployment is rising, and there is a need to find agreed solutions. When the pandemic met us last year, we went to this room together to find agreed solutions. Unfortunately, today's government runs much more than a solo race and does not seek the agreed solutions. There are also many others who are in a difficult situation, not only those who are affected by permits, etc. We have a power price that runs running smoothly and a government that shoes itself at the high power prices, and that gives crumbs back to the inhabitants. We also see that the pensioners are the losers in this budget. There was nothing extra for the old age pensioners. Many of them actually lose purchasing power, because they are affected by the tax screens, power prices, etc. For eight years, the Progress Party has given priority to pensioners. We removed the underregulation, which was a historic effort last year. We have reduced the curtailment of married and cohabiting pensioners, who have in fact been a mess of savings. We increased the minimum pension by NOK 21 000 – an extra NOK 21 000 – when we crashed. In addition, we have reduced taxes and taxes, which have made pensioners very good. Me and the Advance Party are afraid that the harvest's budgetary settlement between the red-green parties signals the beginning of four lean years for the pensioners. It is interesting to see that there are the same parties that introduced the pension reform, i.e. the savings reform on pensions, which has now merged to create a budget, and they forget the pensioners. In fact, many of the pensioners will have double losses, because they live in large, older single homes. They pay dearly for the electricity on which the state serves the search, while it may seem that they have large fortunes because of the same exclusive dwelling, and they pay expensive property taxes. The Progress Party proposes to remove the last part of the curtailment for married and cohabiting pensioners over two years. We have already reduced it in several ways – only from 25 pst. 15 pst, then 15 pst. to 10 pst. We also suggest raising the minimum pension by NOK 5000. Unfortunately, the government is dragging its legs – first in connection with the electricity price when you give some ear to people, providing housing support that does not hit everyone in the population, but only a small part. The whole country is screaming, but you don't want to remove VAT or give a cash payment. In the case of holiday pay, you did not want to give holiday pay to the unemployed. They struggled hard to give vacation money to the unemployed. It took a socialist party, SV, to get it done in the budget agreement. The Council of State even went so far as to warn that the interest rate would rise if the unemployed were paid holiday money. Amazingly, it was magic in words, because interest has already risen, even before we have adopted the state budget. The party also proposed to reduce the employer’s period of corona-related sick leave. After that, the government came up with a system and said that they would also reduce it – not as much as the Progress Party wanted, but they met us a little bit. So the Progress Party proposed to reduce the employer's period of corona-related sick leave, and then they had the same round of leave, when something came up. Finally, I would like to draw the amount free of charge for the accident. You did the same thing. You wanted to cut the amount free to the losers, and it still seems pretty unclear if you really want to do it, or if you don't want to do it. They suggested and argued to do that. Then there came a budget union, and then they argued afterwards in this room not to do it. I hope this won't be a balancing item in future government budgets, where it will always be up to a party on the tip if you don't want to implement the social cuts. In the end, I would like to say that the government parties are now using all the means that the Progress Party has helped to save, whether it is the ABE reform or other things that they previously stood and criticized for implementing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1017	The president asked if the representative would like to make a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1022	I'm addressing proposal No. 5 on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1027	The representative Gisle Meininger Saudland has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1032	We're going to have a fairer Norway. With our government, it becomes – safer for workers and more inclusive for those who need a helping hand. When there are several of the Right's proposals for non-social cuts, we already see that we're going to have to cut a lot of them. We see that we have many new schemes, such as free half-days for the first class in the SFO, more spacious kindergartens, improvements in dental health and many other good measures. Not least, we see that there's a lot to say about employment policy, because if there's one thing we've been up to over the years, and not least about now in the pandemic, it's that we need a security network that helps secure everyday life and work life for people. To help those who have fallen outside, we want to ensure an activity reform that makes it easier to have graduated schemes and get not only one foot, but both feet back to work again. In our budget, we saw money as 1,000 new action sites. Nav will be strengthened by 175 million. NOK, and we're stepping up the VTA places with 250 in numbers. This has something to say. Our working life should be safe. The trade union deduction has stood still. The representative Rotevatn argued that as it had been good enough before, it had to be good enough now. I'm wondering if the same argument would have owed the crown, which once again might have cost me $1. It may not have been the best argument I had in stock, but even if the humor is bad, I'm going to say that our policy is very solid, because now we're simply increasing the trade union deduction by 50 pst. To next year, it's doubles. Stronger supervision of work is essential. Long-term cheese-happiness has not helped in the fight against unprofessional work. For this we are clear that we should strengthen it. Collective appeals are also important. Those who break the rental rules will know it. Our working life should be fair. That's exactly why we're very proud that we're getting extra privileges, so we get vacation money on the day money for people. The sick money scheme, which several parties have been asked to cut, is very solid. On top of that, we're running a pension from the first penny, where one million employees are now missing out on retirement. Here we clean up. That's how a new government turns out. In this society, we stand up for each other. The abbreviation of the misappropriation proposed by the previous government, a stop is set for. Anyone who has something to contribute and who wants to participate in a little work will have to do it without knowing the whip. The child supplement for the disabled is re-introduced, and the spectacle support for children we stand clearly and against. In our option, we're very clear that we're going to include more. People with disabilities and health challenges shall meet a working life that is open and inclusive. In the long run, which I hope will be short, we also need to incorporate the CRPD into Norwegian law. That is an absolute necessity. We stand for that. I'm very happy that we have ambitions for Nav, not only in crowns and ears and additions, which we need to strengthen, but also to introduce a trust reform where we replace many of the unmusical and meaningless measurement parameters with dialogue and local authority and influence. It applies to those who work in the system, and includes the user groups, who need to have their voice heard more often. The fact that we now have a new government has something to say. We're going to have a fairer work life, we're going to have a safe work life, and we're going to include more. That's what we're doing now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1051	The Norwegian welfare state is a common political Norway, but it should not really be believed if you follow the political debate in that country. The left side of Norway spends a lot of time drawing an image of a cold right side that is only concerned with tax relief and social cuts. The representative of Vereide just confirmed that in his post. It's a political myth I thought we were done in the 1980s, but through a long campaign we've seen representatives from all the parties on the left who until those degrees spend a lot of time keeping this myth alive. It is a well-known technique to resort to simple attacks when you have no substance to come with. For our welfare systems to survive, it is only the responsibility of a government to adjust slightly from time to time. Even in Norway, oil wealth does not last forever, and if we are to secure a decent pension for the next generations, a safety net if you get sick, you actually have to take responsibility for it. The welfare systems must hit those who need it the most, and our safety net must stand for the coming generations. It was therefore quite interesting that the Workers' Party and the Centre in their first draft budget chose to keep 18 out of 22 cuts that they themselves thought were unsocial before they came into government. In addition, the government cuts more, including in our appropriations to help young people drop out. Much was cut in the interpreting service for the deaf and the hard of hearing. It is cut off for debt advice in Nav, and the entire leisure card scheme is dropped. The left-hand side calls unsocial cuts, adjustments are to ensure sustainable welfare arrangements. The left-hand side calls unsocial cuts, small changes are to make sure it pays a little more to be in the job rather than going on social benefits. Although the left-hand side never mentions it, the Solberg government introduced a number of important social measures. We made kindergarten cheaper and introduced free core time. We introduced reduced parental pay for the school leisure system. We tripled the support so that several people could afford to travel on vacation and participate in activities. We introduced leisure cards so that all children in the sample municipalities were secured NOK 2 000 for leisure activities. We also planned to make this system national. We increased child welfare for the first time in 20 years. We increased the pension for minimum pensioners. Since 2013, we have also increased the housing support by over 22 billion. kr. Who did we do this for? We did it for those who need it the most. The left-hand side calls tax cuts to the richest, in the real world tax relief to Norwegian business, which creates jobs. Because we know that the biggest difference between people in Norway is whether they have a job to go to or not. Sending a tax bill of 10 billion. For business, it does not stimulate job creation. Increasing the top tax on lecturers, midwives and chauffeurs is not in line with the message that it is the turn of ordinary people. Letting people keep as much of their wages as possible is social in my eyes. That's why the right reduced taxes for ordinary families by $14,000 a year. We also proposed a tax cut of NOK 5000 to get more than 30 years to work. Of course, it's been flogged by a new government. If one thing we see especially in times of crisis, that's how important the job of people is. Another thing we see especially in times of crisis is that someone needs help more than others. That is why the Right believes that it is not right to lubricate everything thinly. That's why we think it's more important with more accurate social benefits. Helping just those who need it the most is what characterizes a good society and a good welfare state.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1066	Now we've had eight years of increased differences between people and non-social cuts from the old right-wing government, and not least they've been the ones with the most money that's defined and directed social development. That is why we are very pleased that we are now receiving a government budget for the benefit of ordinary workers and families. Just the message of ‘the turn of ordinary people’ has inspired grassroots organisations in Norway, which are burning for a safe working life and a stronger welfare state. Among the few that I have seen have been negative, the Right and Special Representative Tina Bru, who actually used a large part of his own speech at the National Meeting of the Right to talk about the Workers' Party's message. Tina Bru wondered who 'common people' are. With our budget, she has received a clear answer: it is among other things. the families who are in work and of course need kindergarten, which now gets NOK 2 900 more in the wallet if they have one child, or NOK 4 900 if they have two. But then Bru says "very little money, so little that it really isn't noticed by most." For us who are so privileged to be elected here, maybe not $4,900 is a be or not be, but for many it actually corresponds to the budget of an ordinary holiday. Ordinary people are the lazy ones, who are now free to be deprived of the motivational money for the great job they do in jobs and for our local democracy. Not to talk about those who have now taken the greatest noise in the last few years with the closure of society, who have lost their jobs – and who are now fortunately meeting a little brighter summer, with the security of holiday pay. In the discussion of the Financial Committee in this Chamber, Heidi Nordby Lunde said something quite right. She said we have to relate to reality as it is. That is why I have today found out the two most important figures from the SSB about the state of work in the last few years. Then there's two numbers that say more than anything else. The first is, how have our workers who are the weakest in their working life and who have the lowest wages? The second thing is, how much of the population is involved in the job? Firstly, it is a fact that today there are many of the lowest wages, for example. in the private sector, which has less to buy milk and bread than they had ten years ago. And the second thing that the SSB shows is that the proportion that's at work is now falling over many, many years. In fact, it's now up to a third that's out of work, and it's a pretty dramatic figure if you compare it to the top year 2008, when it was over 71.5 pst. who participated in the labour market in Norway. The reason why these two things happen at the same time, that the weakest ones get less paid and more ports outside, is improperly linked to social dumping. Many young people who are weak are gradually out of work. In my own home country, especially in the south, there are individual municipalities where there are 40 pst. out of the labour force. It's such a high proportion that it's really hard to deal with, but to get a picture of it in this room, it means that for example. The representatives Bergstø, Asheim, Lundteigen, Sundnes, Moflag and Rotevatn would have been out of work, all of them. Then it goes without saying that something has gone wrong over very many years. That's why we have to have a policy that means that yes, it's worth working, but it's not worth working because the welfare state is cut down. It's the weakest ones that have to be lifted up, and it's a fundamental difference. I myself have lived and worked a little in the United States, and it pays to work – for example. If you live in Anchorage in Alaska, where I studied after high school – because there is no safety net, there is no welfare state. But it's not necessarily a nice everyday thing to be in that working life, not to say in the challenges of crime and insecurity because the differences between people are so big. That is why I am pleased that we have now received a Minister of Labour who sees this and is motivated to act. Now we have to go from talking to practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1083	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1088	Freedom exists in the community. The vast majority of us depend at different times on the community and the well-being that we have built, in order to live a good and free life. When I work in a crisis centre, I've met women who are pregnant after violence from someone they love. When I've been working on Nav, I've met people who have been so trembling on their hands that they can't fill out a form because of anxiety and abstinence. And after working with children and adults with developmental inhibition and autism, one is humbled by the vulnerability of being cared for by so many people every day, but also by how dependent one is on having strong communities, not being sent out on bids, but having a working life where you too are wanted to be welcomed. That's why I want to touch on some of the more people who have been involved in the debate here today, and who are crucial options for how we should meet as people, and what freedom we should have, even when life is not going so well. Because if you are unemployed because of hard work or violence, if you have to go on the hub because of rushes, need social assistance or unemployment, and if you are dependent on the presence of others who help you — yes, there are political conditions that determine it. It is about those who help you, who have full and constant jobs and security in their professional life that determine what help you get. At different times, we will also be dependent on some form of stability that lies within the community, whether we are exposed to accidents or ordinary life breaks. Therefore, there is a certain difference between talking about striking social benefits — or needs testing, as it is also called — and universal welfare schemes to meet people’s real needs in life. There is just design, equipment and funding so crucial – that there are systems that ensure that we are safe in our lives and that those who are to exercise the help you need are also safe in their work. Therefore, it is uplifting to hear the Council of State notifying a large-scale trust reform, and therefore it is uplifting that we are now leaving the test of need and over to strengthen common well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1095	Social security is an important institution. Unfortunately, there have been increasing remnants in the social security system and distortions in the composition of the case in recent years, where more cases than in the past are related to redundancy payments and disability benefits. This has been pointed out by various parties over many years, but now we are in the lucky situation that there is an overall committee that says that a ‘will focus on quality development in the complaint and appeal procedures and correct and consistent understanding of the law in the complaint and appeal axes’. It's very important that the department follows up this. I know that there is a lack of a selection that looks at it, and I sincerely hope now that this unanimous committee comment reinforces the need for the social security system to function properly, and that the decisions of the Social Security Court have implications for the functioning of the rest of the Nav process chain. This applies to redundancy payments. There is an income hedge in the scheme, with 66 pst. on the basis of income, and this security of income is essential and must not be impaired. In addition to the guarantee of income, the purpose of the redundancy benefits is two-fold. First of all, it is to clarify the health situation — does it provide a basis for disability benefits, or is it working with their working capacity? Point two is the qualification for work, for those who are therefore not eligible for disability benefit. There is a steady transition between health clearance and work qualification. The redundancy may also result in disability benefits being the right income hedge for the future. But there has to be a strong strengthening of measures to qualify for work. This applies, for example, to education, in particular the completion of secondary education for young people, the programme of qualification which is under municipal control, and state wage support for enterprises, which can then pay collective pay to people who are ready for work but who have difficulties in obtaining employment. Otherwise, there has been a focus on labour market measures for just those who have not completed secondary education. There is a comitology note on page 23 of the opinion, in which there is a joint committee that says that this could lead to «permanent exclusion». Here it's important that you have an interaction between school, the county municipality, and Nav. In Buskerud, the good experience with UngInvest, which has been driven by the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV, is an action that is now being continued. I would also like to say in that area that the cut in the item that has been mentioned by the Right is something that needs to be carefully considered in order to improve those measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1104	This fall we have seen how severe power prices can hit households and lonely in Norway. We've seen social security, low pay and pensioners struggling to pay electricity bills that are two, three, and four times as high as normal. We have also experienced that when we have deliberately tried to give money over the housing allowance to many of those who need help with paying the electricity bill, the housing allowance is not close to meeting all those who need help with paying the bills to have a decent place to live. The reason for this – and this is also the reason why I am taking it into account in this debate – is that the changes made to the reform in 2015 led to the catapulting of all of the country's misdemeanors across the income limit for housing support through what was almost a technical change. At that time it began to tax disability differently, and then it increased not only the disability but also the tax rate. The problem is that housing support does not take into account what you have in your pocket; it takes account of gross income. As a result, we are in a situation that is so absurd that normally no one in the country has the right to apply for housing support. It's not just that they don't get granted housing support; they don't have the right to apply once, because they're almost NOK 8 above the limit of getting housing support every single month. So they're $8 for the rich to get help from this welfare system. It must be a New Year's resolution for both of us in this committee and the Stortingen, in other words, to sort out this clearly unintentional injustice. I would like to draw attention to two requests that Red has raised in the matter. It is the proposals to improve the compensation schemes for the victims of the social security scandal, which are known as the ‘Nav scandal’ in the population mouth. The current compensation scheme has been too poor. We've spent too much time cleaning up what's the most extensive murder in recent Norwegian history. That means that people who have been sentenced to prison have not yet been close to getting what they are entitled to. That is why Mr Red has tabled two proposals. The first is to establish an early-stage substitution scheme, using a model from the Dutch social security scandal. The second is to amend the legal aid system to assist the victims of the Nav scandal, so that more people get the help they need, and that it would simply be lacking that the state contributed after committing the injustice that the state has, after all, committed against very many insured people here in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1115	Today, the Stortinget adopts a budget that takes Norway in a new and fairer direction. After eight years of right-dominated governments where the budget winners have been the ones who have the most from before, we now have a government that takes Norway in a completely different direction: now is the turn of ordinary people. Now we're delivering a historic green and fair budget. We reduce the differences, strengthen the well-being, cut greenhouse gas emissions and remove the unsocial cut of the right-wing government, which has been done over many, many years. As I said, we're clearing up the unsocial section of the right-hand government. We now guarantee holiday pay for those who have been unemployed or on leave, extend the right to work clearance, reintroduce the child allowance for disability, and reduce the income from the first crown, as suggested by the Solberg administration. In addition, we strengthen the spectacle support for children. In short, it's a new and more fair course. That was what the people wanted in the elections earlier this fall. In addition, we increase the allocation of labour market measures and create 1 000 more sites for action and about 250 more VTA sites in Norway. Hubs are reinforced by 100 million. to remedy and improve the follow-up of those who are either wholly or partly unemployed. In addition, as I said, we strengthen the spectacle stand for children. In short, a new and fairer direction in many areas. There was unsocial cut for eight years under the previous government. It was given most to those who had the most from before. The wealth tax code of the richest has been funded by petty, unsocial cuts to the disabled, unemployed and children, to name a few. Ordinary people have paid the price for the Solberg government tax feast. With this budget from the Central Party, the Workers' Party and SV, this government and the Council of State show a new direction for ordinary people. As I said, the State budget ensures holiday money for those who have been unemployed or on leave. It's a measure we come with as early as the turn of the year. We see that the temporary arrangement, which is now extended, makes tens of thousands of those who have been hit hardest under the corona, not standing without income on holiday. The government will come back with a proposal for a permanent holiday supplement scheme, which is something we look forward to. Those who receive redundancy benefits will no longer risk ending up on social assistance because Nav has not been able to clear them up quickly enough. There are many areas that can be mentioned: The victim shall not receive a cut-off of labour income from the first crown. We're introducing a pension from the first heads. That's like 220 million. kr for children’s spectacle support. Work for everyone is the number one job for the Workers' Party and has always been, and it will always be the leader of our policies. It's equalizing for everyone who participates in society. We need to make a stronger effort for young people who do not come in and get footholds on the labour market and who are at risk of staying outside. This is why it is important that we have continuing training to ensure that young people get work and education that ensures a safe future for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1151	Too many of our fellow human beings have ended up in a debt crisis they can't get out of. Too many people get a Christmas with high shoulders. The bills accumulate, and on top comes a cold winter and high power prices. We have to help them and do everything we can, not only with the current prices now, but also in the long term in order for fewer to end up in the economic mess. On the Right Guard we tightened against expensive and unnecessary consumption loans. We banned aggressive marketing, tightened up lending opportunities, introduced debt registers, so that consumers and banks got a better overview. We cut the unreasonable collection fees. We made it easier to get help and debt arrangements to pay down and cancel debts. These measures helped us to secure the expensive, unsafe loans in severe retreats. On the Right Guard, we also put in place measures and means to increase the quality and availability of debt advice. In the budget we provided, Nav has the means to increase its own competence in both economic and debt advice. As part of this work, they would also get money to develop digital solutions that would make help better and more accessible to more people – an important handshake for those who now need our help as much as possible. It is therefore surprising to note that the red majority, with the Senter Party, SV and the Workers' Party, are in favour of scrapping the bet that would make the debt advice available to those who now need it. Before the election, the Workers' Party said it was a common people's turn. And now Sandtrøen said that we have now got a clear answer. He's right about that. The common people are not the ones who are out of high school, it's not the deaf who lack access to interpreters, and it's not the many who struggle to pay debts. They are obviously not common enough to be on the Workers' Party's priority list now before Christmas. We need a policy for everyone, either in the 'common' or 'unusual' A4 box. For the Right, at least it's clear that we're going to take the fight for everyone, secure those who have the least, the help they deserve and need, and provide a society with opportunities for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1164	I'll take up two things that I didn't get into my previous post. One is a matter where the Progress Party has actually been with today's government, where we went against the previous government, which went off after the election. It is the creation of a Commission to propose replacements for the damaged oil pioneers. It's urgent. This is simply because many of the oil pioneers who worked on platform in the 1970s and 1980s are reaching an age when it says it's urgent. I expect the Council of State of Rogaland to follow the work of the damaged oil pioneers separately. The second thing I want to address is one of the solutions to the proposals for the Progress Party. There we propose: ‘The government is asking the Government to make the necessary proposals to ensure that persons who have previously been granted assistance from the Public Security Agency, if necessary and entitled to renewal, are provided with equivalent tools which they all have at their disposal and are not significantly more expensive than other alternative means.’ We have submitted that as a loose proposal in the Chamber today, proposal No. 5, and I hope the other parties can support it. Unfortunately, this has gone under the radar, the few know about it, and there has been little mention in the media. Since I have the Spokesman's chair and the Council of State is here, I will explain the proposal to the best of my ability. It is today that many people who have a particular aid are at risk of losing it, even though they have had it for years. For example, Oddlaug in Flekkefjord on the Southland has a wheelchair with a standing function. She's had that after she got paralyzed almost 20 years ago. I know Oddlaug. She has now been told that she will not get that wheelchair renewed when it goes healthy. It is because Nav himself has decided – not by decision in this Chamber, but they have decided – that not everyone should be given the aid again now. It is despite the fact that both her family, the municipality, the doctor and everyone around her believe that she should have the same wheelchair again. Nav has said on his own initiative that he or she needs to be able to use his or her hands to provide a treatment aid. It means incredibly that the sicker and the worse you are, for example. If you're lame, you get worse help than if you hadn't been. There are an incredible number of hundreds of people in this country. I know two people who are hit by it, in my home municipality. That is why I hope that the proposal we have put forward in this Chamber will be approved, and that people will press the green button to vote in two to three hours.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1182	The undersigned has said it several times today: most of the work that is done within this building, but also outside this building, deals with the difficult situation of people and business because of high electricity prices and covid-19. The undersigned's attention was captured when he went to Oslo on Sunday and sat and read the Evening Post from Saturday, where a health company announced that it looked as if they were going to be 1.5 billion. kr in surplus because you have a covid-19 pandemic, and that one among other things. have been subjected to a number of treatments for patients who need it. I think this is very worrying. That's actually the way I've talked about earlier, that we push some of these patients out in a race where they completely innocently end up with redundancy versus sick pay. Then it's our responsibility to solve that problem. That is why the Progress Party has promoted this document 8, which has now been forwarded to the Committee. But the signed and advanced party is of the opinion that this is urgent, because we cannot wait the longest for people to be pushed into a problem phase. Private healthcare providers have said that they have free capacity and can contribute to the reduction of health cows. But there are obviously no steering signals from the current state council to make use of that capacity. Then it is the Council of State that is present in this room, which gets the problem, by pushing people away from being on sick pay into a difficult economic situation, which of course will be redundancy pay. Therefore, I fervently ask that in this phase we do not act too late and too little, which has been the review tone now through the coronary apathy and with the entry of the new government. Here we actually have to act in advance before we get into that situation. We have to make use of the available spare capacity so that as much as possible is processed instead of waiting for queues.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1191	I think it sounds hollow when more representatives from the Right from this pulpit shoot from the hip and do not acknowledge that all the three parties, the Labour Party, the Senter Party and the SV, are united behind the state budget that is on the table. In the same breath they boast of arrangements from the last period we all know is the merit of the Christian People's Party. If we keep going like that, I'm afraid that we don't make democracy more accessible to people, rather the opposite. Let's all agree to take responsibility for the respective state budgets each behind. The right repeats constantly that it is worth working. Everyone who has a job knows that. It actually doesn't just pay off financially, it's good for health too. It's actually more profitable to be healthy at work. And then I want to move on to amazing workers, those who've gotten unearthed a lot of thin in the last few years, people in Nav, who work out of the tools they've had at their disposal, and do a great job. Thank you so much, everyone! Now it's their turn to get new tools and influence through a trust reform. That's good for everyone -- everyone who's in the life of our welfare services. And if I am allowed to: Combined with the cancellation of a general possibility for the employer to offer a temporary contract, people will get permanently into work and not be throwing balls from temporary contracts to temporary contracts. For that is the situation for those with the most loosest connection to working life. We in the Workers' Party want to work for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1198	Now a lot of people might be going home and washing for Christmas, if you haven't done it already. At home it may look fine on the surface, but if I lift a little on the sofa, it looks pretty bad anyway. If you're going to do a big cleaning, you're going to have to look at more than what meets you at first sight. It is true that we experience employment in Norway as safe and well, mainly, but in some industries and for some workers there may be a lot of shit in the corners – excuse the language. That is why we in the Working Party will continue cleaning after Christmas. We need to remove the general access to temporary employment, we need to reintroduce collective redress, we need to strengthen the right to full permanent jobs, and we need to double the trade union deduction. In the midst of the crisis management that the government is working with continuously, I would like to thank the Council of State Tajik, who has provided policy on ongoing bonds between everything else that has been going on during this new covid wave. The Hurdal platform and the 100-day schedule of the Workers' Party are in good order in the Department of Tajik. We're happy about that. We look forward to continuing to get more people to work, because work is the most important way out of poverty, and because the workplace gives people a community, development and security. The workline is important for people and society. But that's also the welfare. Einar Gerhardsen said no one should be left with the hat in his hand anymore. People who experience sickness or occupational injury shall be able to receive disability benefits with straight back, but they shall also have the opportunity to work with their working capacity. Universal well-being is the solution of the Workers' Party, rather than the needs-tested poverty traps of the Right to a worthy need. The old Workers' Party is the new Workers' Party. It's normal people's turn, but it's not the opposite of everyone's going. Finally, I would just like to make a comment on the proposal referred to by the representative Gisle Meininger Saudland. I could imagine encouraging the representative to turn this into a transmission proposal, as it is difficult for us to decide on the realities above the table. But I think the representative made a good impression that I am absolutely sure the minister will look into if the proposal is sent. In the end, I want to take the opportunity to wish everyone a really good Christmas – and hopefully a much better year in 2022, for all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1213	The representative Per Olaf Lundteg has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1218	Case No. 6, for which I am the rapporteur. It is a proposal by the representatives of Wiborg and Listhaug to ensure the rights of daily allowances and sick pay for all workers without age discrimination, regardless of age. Prior to the summer of 2020, the Government of Solberg set up a sample to evaluate the pension reform and mandated to evaluate age limits in the context of different income protection schemes. They shall cast their votes by 1 March 2022, and therefore the majority of the Committee – all except the Party for Progress and the Red Party – is in favour of seeing this work and working on age limits for income protection in the context, and therefore recommends that the proposal of the Party for Progress not be adopted. Otherwise, I would also like to wish you a very good Christmas and thank the Council of State for their hard work in the short period that she has worked in the role.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1225	The representative of Kirsti Bergstø has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1230	The representative Kristjánsson mentioned in a previous post that everyone should have as New Year's anniversary that no arrangements are being made to ensure that people who need them fall outside. It's about people like Frøy, who we could read about in the NRK, who didn't make use of the first proposal for power support because she had 8 dollars too much. There it is appropriate to mention that SV has fulfilled its New Year’s promise, for our promise was to reduce the financial differences and ensure the well-being and security of more people. We know that four out of ten are struggling with increased power bills, and that seven pst. has difficulty paying them at all. Therefore, it is essential to put in place that people who do not meet the criteria for economic social assistance can also get help from Nav to just pay the electricity bills. That's how the community stands up for people who need it. Very good Christmas also from SV – thanks for the cooperation so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1237	I haven't always been the best in school and in the classroom. In fact, in my previous childhood, it was rather the opposite: on the back bench, lack of motivation – and numbers that dance instead of counting when I looked at them. Nevertheless, I was one of the lucky ones who got special attention from my teacher, and who had resourceful parents who could help me through what I was doing. One thing that I still know a little about, even though I managed to get through, when I was visiting my homelands, I left the car in the parking lot and met with experts who put on the rear bench – with me – in the growth, and who did not have the same arrangements and the same made around them. Some have fallen into a rush, many have become unemployed and fall outside. I don't think it's had to do with their abilities, their will or their motivation. I think a lot of these people, my friends, have at least as much good to contribute as I do, but the intentions were never quite there. If there's one thing I want from the politics, and if there's one thing that motivates me to work here and stand on this pulpit, then it's just that we have arrangements that can help them, and that can make sure that people who have fallen outside, whether in school or in work, can get a helping hand and a possibility, a stronger layer around them that can be with and lift them to their own potential. That is what I want from the policy. A lot of this isn't easy, takes a lot of time, but on purpose and a social democratic policy where one sees the potential in each one, I think it's possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1244	The representative Gisle Meininger Saudland has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1250	I would like to thank the representative Moflag for signaling support if we turn this into a transmission proposal. We're going to do that. If there are no obstacles to doing it now, we want to do it, and I'm very happy that it can be looked at more closely. If there's a solution to that, we'll be ready to support it when it comes to Stortinget again. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the Committee for its cooperation and to wish both the members of the Committee and the State Council a good Christmas. I hope that there will be a system in view of the proposal that we are now making, that the Council of State can look at it and come back to the Storting with the necessary changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1257	The representative Dagfinn Henrik Olsen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1262	I have a explanation of vote: in the settings of Prop. 1 S for 2021-2022 two proposals have been put to the vote and the Progress Party will support Red's proposal No. 2 in the case. Otherwise, I want to thank you for the cooperation in the committee and wish everyone a really good Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1269	No more people have asked for the word on the matter. 1 to 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1286	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, there will be given a reply to replies from members of the government, and those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1291	Let me start by thanking the Committee for good cooperation, and thanking the competent committee secretaries and political advisers who have made it possible to carry out the year's budgetary procedure in a safe and sound manner. In the last week, Stortinget has discussed various trade budgets late and early, and for a newcomer at Stortinget there have been interesting debates to follow. The new bulk of the population has been marked by the budgets adopted. More money has been allocated to the welfare of municipalities, more money for climate action, more for hospitals. Action is being taken to improve the distribution of tax policies. Most people get lower taxes. Those with the highest income and the highest wealth shall pay more in taxes. Differences are reduced, well-being is financed. The budgets we are adopting today are essential for the rest of our society to function as well as it does. The new government proposes strengthening the tax rate, and it has continued in the Stortinget. For the job done by the tax administration on behalf of the community, it is absolutely invaluable. Or, as it says in the social mission: ‘The tax base shall provide a main financial basis for public activities’. In the context of the current situation we have with pandemics, I would like to stress that the tax rate has an important function related to the follow-up of the corona measures. The tax rate is central in the case of compensation schemes and when companies have to ask for suspension of the payment of taxes and taxes. The tax base shall be provided with a propensity to turn around quickly, while at the same time respecting control requirements. Because, at a time when aid schemes are rusty, it is particularly important that systems reduce the risk and extent of abuse. Of other budgets under the Ministry of Finance's budget area, the customs office, the Financial Supervisory Authority, the Central Bureau of Statistics and the Directorate of Administration and Financial Management are the largest. These are businesses that are not always subject to major political debates here in the Chamber, but they have important functions and roles in our society, functions that we need to get the wheels to walk around, or to develop our society further: Financial supervision contributes to financial stability and to the smooth functioning of markets. The customs tariff shall ensure that exports and imports are effected within the limits of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions in force. The SSB gives us statistics and knowledge that allows us to make wise choices based on facts. DFØ shall ensure that the State works effectively and that governance and organisation are as good as it should be. The budget agreement reduces the budgets for job travel in several of these establishments. It's a natural consequence of the ongoing pandemic. Right, Left and Christian People's Party refers to this as an extra ABE-cut, but there they have misunderstood. The correction in the appropriations for the impact of changes in work travel habits is a natural consequence of the ongoing pandemic and is the opposite of the flat, unpriority cut, which the Solberg government used to ensure coverage. The sum of the budgets for the part of the state that we are dealing with today becomes civilisation, and once the current budget is adopted, Norway is managed in a good and civilised way also in 2022.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1327	For the Workers' Party-Center Party administration, it is important to provide workers and businesses with predictability through the crisis, through strong crisis measures, which also involve a significant contribution from Community funds. At the same time, it is important to help reduce activity and reduce costs where there is room for it. Indeed, it is precisely the Workers' Party-Center Party government, supported by SV, that adds – by reducing the use of consultants, by reducing travel activity – where, as a result of the pandemic, it is the basis for reducing budget lines. I record that the expired government parties closest to autopilot in the note after comment appear to express concern about it along the way also in this setting. I notice, among other things. they have submitted such an opinion on autopilot under the budget of the tax administration. If you read the settings we've been dealing with here, you might get the impression that the Right, Left and Christian People's Party are concerned about the resource situation of the tax administration. But what is the case is that the estranged government had a massive cut in the tax haven's appropriations, which the new government made sure to correct. If the government's budget had been adopted, it would have resulted in - as it says in the new government's budget proposal - the need for mass redundancies in the tax bill. This could go beyond the absolutely crucial work of the tax haven in securing tax revenue to the community, but also by following up businesses and workers in a demanding pandemic and contributing to the support schemes we set up, which I record, among other things. The representative, Bru from the right, is very concerned that we are going to get in place quickly. At the same time as one stands in the hall and criticises the government for not being in place fast enough, a self-extensive cut to the tax rate, which is one of the most central agencies we have to deal with the pandemic. It is very important that we think in a holistic and wise way when we are going to keep budgeting and the first-line agencies, both in order to ensure and follow up the implementation of crisis measures, to ensure that the money goes to the people they are intended to, and to have sufficient resources for follow-up, for control and for verification, so that we ensure that the Community's money benefits those who need it most, and at the same time that those who try to cheat and fantasize are taken by the control authorities. There is therefore a need to have a different arrangement in the budget from that of the outgoing government in its proposal. That's also why the new government has a reinforcement for, among other things. tax havens.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1340	All the budgetary decisions we make in the Grand Duchy are important, because those decisions affect both ordinary people and businesses throughout the country. I heard the representative Gülsvik talk about the need for vigorous action. Yes, but it doesn't keep talking about powerful measures. It must also be made visible in concrete proposals and in concrete actions. Normally, the Stortinget will deal with proposals from the government. The size can take its own initiative, but the normal situation is that there are proposals from the government. Now we are in an extremely difficult time. There are many who are struggling with high electricity bills, high fuel prices, interest rates are rising, food prices are predicted to increase considerably, and there are no measures from the government. They're talking about powerful measures, but we don't see them in Stortinget. Then I understand that the government has a dialogue directly with SV on some issues, but there is nothing that is presented in Stortinget, and that Stortinget can then have the opportunity to process and effect quickly. It's very bad. The Progress Party will refer to our alternative budget for 2022, where we, among other things, proposed a crisis package that would help a lot in the acute situation they now have. Then we could use the extraordinary income that is now coming to the treasury, either directly or indirectly, to help ordinary people and to help businesses manage electricity bills and other expenses that have become very, very high, but also to deal with the situation around the infection development and the pandemic. But we don't get a majority for that. So we refer to the alternative budget of the Progress Party and the proposals that have been promoted in the financial situation. What Norway needs now are clear budgetary decisions, clear priorities, effective management of Community funds, and not least to prioritise resources to address the challenges we are facing in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1351	I just want to go through the departments that are under the Ministry of Finance, to which we are dealing with the budget today. The tax revenue has been raised by several. It was a priority for the government to increase the budget, and we've increased it by 115 million. kr after the budgetary agreement with SV, compared to that of the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left. It's precisely because we're going to have a well-functioning tax rate across the country, and doing an important job for us as a community. One of the important jobs for the community now becomes the new wage support scheme, which has been discussed here for several rounds, and then it is important that the tax rate has resources and the ability to implement it. An important job next year for the tax haven will also be the modernisation of their IT systems. When you think about political priorities, maybe it's not lifting the tax rate is the biggest kiosk cellar, but it's incredibly important that it works, and that the framework is in place. Now we see it in these days, how important it is for example. the pay-as-you-go scheme. So let's use 8.3 billion. kr on it. It's going to be 1.8 billion. kr on the customs tariff, which shall take care of the important social functions of the establishment. It is also quick to forget when you sit on the Finance Committee that you have these different agencies that have an important and difficult social function. I myself visited the customs department in Kristiansand a few weeks ago. I'll recommend the committee to do it quite quickly, because it's an impressive team spirit and work morals and a lot of skilled professionals. All members of the Committee have been delighted by the SSB when they send questions on where in the alternative budget they find statistics and all that provides the basis for the entire budgetary process. There's an SSB that's absolutely crucial. Think how lucky we are in Norway, because whether we're in position or in opposition, we trust those numbers of the SSB. We have a common ownership of it, and then we also have a common basis for discussion. It's a very important entity, which lays the whole foundation for the debates we have here. Then it's the Financial Supervisory Authority. Norway is one of the countries with a cleanness and stability in financial markets and with good and sound financial supervision with a high level of confidence. There has never been any discussion about this in the house either. Everyone trusts that these functions work. At Stortinget, everyone knows DFØ because of the DFØ app, but they have a much more extensive, large and heavy business than that, which is crucial for efficient resource use in the state, and for good governance, good target management and good decision-making. DFØ is also a crucial tool for the work of trust reform. In total, the floors have reached 10,000 employees, and they are located in over 100 offices. I choose to say, thank you for the job, you're doing an important job for all of us!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1370	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1387	After the wishes of the Finance Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, there will be given the right to reply to replies from members of the government, and those who may sign up to 3 minutes on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1394	On behalf of the rapporteur on the matter, I would like to thank the Committee on the Rapid Treatment of the Rehabilitation of the Budget 2021. The position in the case is promoted by a majority consisting of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV. The same parties also support loose proposal No. 12th@item: inlistbox In the budget for 2022, the municipal compensation scheme for enterprises that are struggling due to new infectious diseases measures was reinforced by 1 billion. kr. 500 million. kr of this is proposed already in the current year. Proposal No. 12 is taken up by this. 2021 is the second year in a row where the pandemic characterizes the Norwegian economy. This in itself leads to uncertainty and unforeseeability for people and businesses. In addition, electricity prices have increased sharply now towards Christmas. As elected representatives of the people, at such times our primary task is to contribute to safe economic governance and to raise more risk from the shoulders of the individual and over to the community. It's at such times that we see what the Norwegian welfare model actually means, not just for the few, but for all of us. Together with last week’s decisions on power support and yesterday’s negotiating solution on wage support as an alternative to leavencies, there is now a strong economic package of measures on the table, consisting of extended, improved and new measures, composed in a very short time, with a stronger weight than previously on the individual worker and with yield limits for enterprises receiving Community support. It also characterizes the ejaculation. The government has taken more far-reaching infectious measures. This may mean that several viable businesses have problems paying taxes and taxes. Therefore, an important measure in the effusion process is to extend the deferral period for tax receipts for activities until 31 March 2022 in the year preceding that of the new year. The tax revenue of the country will be lower this year, but enterprises will not be remunerated to receive a tax return while they are shut down. Collective transport is struggling, and it is in a time when we have to travel more climate friendly. In the budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, the counties are compensated by 500 million. kr. 250 million. kr of which are proposed covered now. The setting also refers to the Storting’s decision to pay extra payments to the beneficiaries of housing aid because of high electricity prices and representative proposal 49 S for electricity aid to all. In this regard, I refer to the Stortinge decision last Friday on a universal support scheme to cancel the exceptionally high power prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1409	The representative Lise Christoffersen has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1414	Unfortunately, it has become a slightly more demanding harvest and period towards Christmas time than we might have hoped when we opened the country earlier in the autumn, even though we were still in a situation of increased preparedness. There is no doubt that the last few weeks have been incredibly demanding for many around this country, both for employees and businesses, people who have wondered what is going on with their jobs, and what will be the consequences now that we have had to put in place new, strict measures to prevent infection in order to get rid of the pandemic. I hope, of course, that we can go into the new year with a different situation gradually, and that we get to where we can allow ourselves to let go a little bit again, so that people can run the business and go to work as usual, because that's what everyone wants. But I noticed that in the previous case, the representative talked about why there is a need to budget completely and wisely, that we have to think about greater contexts. I fully agree with that, and that is precisely why we have been so critical of the process that has been around the compensation schemes this autumn. It is demanding for the opposition to deal with press conferences every two days and adjustments to arrangements. And one thing is that it's demanding for us -- that's okay enough; that's what we're going to be able to live with -- but those it's most demanding for are just businesses. They also need to budget wisely, globally, knowing what they have to deal with when, for example, they are. shall decide whether to permit or not. Then it is gratifying that there are now several things from the government that clarify the situation, that help and fine, both with money and with arrangements, but I think it is a pity that there has been so much uncertainty about it. And we still don't have a decision on the payroll scheme, but now it's a majority for it in the Stortinget, and I see that more companies also respond positively to the fact that you've now increased the maximum for how much you can support. That's good. At the same time, we know that there are some people who are going to fall outside both wage support and the national compensation scheme, at least given what we know about those schemes per day. Nothing has happened to the Storting, but what we know is that, for example. winter sports sites are at least at risk of falling outside the scope of wage support. So I think it's good that there's now more money for the municipal compensation scheme in the new era. We are going to support that proposal from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV here in the Chamber today, but I would also like to encourage you to look at how to prioritize the winter sports places within the municipal system, because they can easily get outside and fall between two chairs. Then we will also support proposal No. 13, from the Left, on the scheme of the payroll scheme. We believe that although it is now better than it was, and that the changes that came were necessary, it is still a major problem for many companies that you cannot combine it with permitting and using wage support. This means that many people are now getting a permit when they could have been in work. I'm addressing that proposal right there is a part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1431	The representative Tina Bru has then drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1436	I noticed that the representative Bru expresses concern that the government has press conferences where a reporter announces new arrangements on a continuous basis to save workers and businesses through an escalating situation that creates challenges for them in their everyday lives – whether they can have a job to go to tomorrow, whether their business will continue to survive. Of course, it is a government's responsibility to follow the situation continuously and in close dialogue with the social partners and others involved, and to take new and strengthened measures. There is nothing new about the fact that there are press conferences on the way in the pandemic, and that the Storting must look at press conferences and new measures from a government. But there's something new from the last period. In the last period, the opposition to the Storting had to take leadership, because one had a government that did not show sufficient will and force to ensure predictability of workers and businesses through the pandemic. It was the Stortinget that had to ensure, once and for all, that an extension of the daily allowance period had been granted, that they had to maintain increased rates for those who had been granted a permit, that they had sufficient arrangements for compensation for businesses and for setting up a separate scheme for self-employed and freelancers. It didn't come from the government. It was the Stortinget who took the initiative. So to what the representative Bru says about the payroll scheme: it is clear that the representative Bru is living according to the principle that there is no shame in turning his back on the wind, because there has been a majority in this room who have asked for a payroll scheme and who have asked the government to come up with a system that can help keep people in work, instead of getting a permit. That decision was taken as early as January of this year. Nevertheless, when the Right, Left and Christian Party government came back, one did not come back with such an arrangement. No, one came back with a new variant of the scheme that one had before in order to take back the permit that one had had out, a scheme that the new aging shows has been little used. Then it is gratifying that there is now a broad majority on the Stortinget that supports having a pay support scheme, but it was the new government that had to start that work. There wasn't a model there from there, despite the fact that a majority at Stortinget had asked the government to come up with a payroll scheme. No, it was the Arbeiderparti-Senterparti-Registration that, in cooperation with the parties – and in good cooperation with SV – has provided a majority for such a scheme and has developed such a scheme in a short time. I am also pleased that we have received, among other things, the new aging process. half a billion to municipal compensation in order to contribute to the care of badly hit enterprises and workers around Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1449	I don't think it's the press conferences that are the problem, but the lack of follow-up in addition to the press conferences, because there's no issue with proposals for action in the Stortinget. That's the challenge for this government. Then it is not that the wage support scheme has been put before the Stortinget either, as the Minister of Finance said yesterday. It is the Stortinget that has twice asked the Minister of Finance to come to the Stortinget to brief and explain the wage support system that the government has discussed with the social partners. The effusion shows, in my opinion, two main features. One is that the financial measures under the pandemic have taken well, they have worked well, and the Norwegian economy has recovered rapidly. Then, unfortunately, we have now come into a new phase, and the uncertainty is great. That's the one. There is a minor consumption of corona measures — there have been sufficient appropriations, and disposal is adapted to what has been needed in the course of the process. I think that some of the worst critics of various financial support measures should also notice that there is a significant decrease in consumption. Another thing that is quite visible in the recent ageing process is how important the oil and gas sector is and is likely to be to Norway for many, many years to come. Only since the balanced budget for 2021 has the cash flow from the petroleum activity increased to 272 billion. NOK, which is almost SEK 174 billion. kr more than what was estimated in the budget. It shows how important this sector is. Now it is high prices, but it is therefore essential that the oil and gas sector be given the opportunity to develop further to contribute to the Norwegian economy, and not least to help maintain our well-being. It is good that the government parties, together with SV, now propose to strengthen the municipal aid scheme, or the compensation scheme. We've been talking about 1 billion. kr. Now it's 500 million. kr. This was a system that was created by the Progress Party together with the previous government parties in the ejaculation a year ago. That's 250 million. kr. Later it's increased, and it's paid out 2.8 billion. kr through that scheme. It is effective, it has done well, and for the first time the money was paid already during the Rome Christmas, following a decision in Stortinget before Christmas. The Progress Party wants to strengthen it significantly more than what the majority now propose, but we will vote in a subsidiary way in favour of proposal No. 12 and we also want to support proposal No. 13th@item: inlistbox I'll mention our suggestions in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1464	Then the representative Hans Andreas Limi has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1469	When we settle this year, there is every reason to say that the harvest was not as we hoped it would be. We are still in a very difficult situation for very many of the country's inhabitants to face the new contractions as a result of increased infection. And the most cause of concern is for all those who are already struggling to get it around financially, those who have feared to be licensed for the fourth or fifth time, those who notice that costs are increasing, and that the job is uncertain. And we have to stress again that the bill for this pandemic and for dealing with it is the one that is initially the worst-case scenario, that takes. When we are about to take stock of the various crisis packages and policies that have been pursued, I believe that we must jointly take on board that parts of the crisis policy contribute – and have contributed – to increasing the economic differences in Norway. We see that too much of the crisis policy has been geared towards rich corporate owners who have the ability to raise money, capital, in the loan market, in the stock market, who have received government contributions, while workers have paid a much higher cost. We know that the compensation scheme that has been up to date has gone too far to many companies that would in any case have a profit of 500 million. kr in total – and also to many companies that just have owners who should have injected capital themselves. It has prevented or not made it necessary for owners and banks to lose. It's been one too big bias. It should have been, in the light of the post-war situation, more borrowing arrangements, at least for the largest companies, and wage subsidies for the others. That's why I and SV believe it's right and important that we gradually get a Corona Commission to look at the economic crisis instruments that have been in place for almost two years now, and that we're still going to have, to evaluate those arrangements. Then I am glad that we have now established a pay subsidy scheme. Now we see that more and more companies are withdrawing the cancellation notice. Fewer people have to go into Christmas legit, thanks to this majority. I think it's reasonable that many of those companies have to take a self-share, that's part of their social responsibility. And then I hope next year we'll spend more money on refurbishment of our healthcare system than on crisis packages for the big business actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1482	It has never been intended that the State should be a kind of power capitalist, nor that extremely high electricity prices should be a source of funding for well-being. For that we have the tax system. High electricity prices are a problem for society and not something we at Stortinget are going to cry out for because it looks good in age when we can record higher revenues than you thought. Because we have to remember that the state is no one; the state is all and the community. In that case, we believe in Red – and have proposed for ageing – that the exceptionally high revenues generated by the State from electricity prices in the form of profits in the state’s own companies and VAT should be repaid to those who have paid for this, namely all residents in Norway. These are extraordinary revenues in 2021, and we believe that they should therefore be paid out in 2021. It's also the only way we can ensure that people get help with the bills they've already paid, not least the November bill, which is due at Christmas, and which is not part of the power package that the government has provided. We have, based on estimates, said it's 11.1 billion. kr in increased income to the country. It's probably a pretty low estimate. If you distribute it to all the households in Norway, it is NOK 4400 per household. This is a very short-term solution to a problem that has already happened, i.e. power prices that have been in 2021. Red believes that other and more systematic changes are needed in the electricity market to avoid a persistent power crisis. For example, some municipalities in Norway have: put a maximum price for its inhabitants, based on a logic that there are the inhabitants there who own the power produced by the municipal power company. That's a possible solution. Red has also suggested a two-part power price, so that we don't let people who have very good advice waste a lot of power – something that is important, both because it has natural footprints, and because we need it as part of the climate solution. Red has also suggested, obviously, to do something about exports of electricity, which opens up that we can import European electricity prices, and this I am absolutely sure will continue to be a debate in Stortinget. So our salutation proposal is a cash refund of the income that the government has had extra because of extra high electricity prices. With that, I take up the proposals No. 6, 10 and 11, from Red, which will then be replaced by Proposal No. 7 in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1498	Then the representative Marie Snee Martinussen has drawn up the proposals to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1503	The new age is rarely the arena of the biggest inconsistency in the hall, nor today, but there are some inconsistency. It has enough background in that it's a very demanding time. There are a lot of companies and not least added as the last few weeks have got the messages they absolutely wouldn't get, who have it heavy, and who attend a heavy Christmas. There has, of course, been a lot of discussion over the last few weeks about what support schemes need to be put in place to ensure that we are able to secure jobs and the income base of families. A lot of it has been said that you should come at a different time, and that you don't have to do it now, in the new age. So we get to wait for what's going to come in a proposition from the government after Christmas, but at some point, in the left's view, it's absolutely necessary to do something right now. We've been saying that all along the last couple of weeks: it's not enough just to come after Christmas; one must also get out money now, before Christmas. That's why we've been saying that it's absolutely necessary to fill in the municipal compensation scheme, so that one gets money out to the companies. There wasn't a penny in the government proposal. In the Committee's configuration, there was also little support for that proposal from the Left. But now, in the last turn, there's been an agreement between the red-green parts that it's going to be filled in in the compensation scheme. Better late than never, we get to say. It is good that one realizes that this is necessary, and it is good that it has worked to lift that debate. The second debate that many of us have, and which I would like to mention briefly, is the debate on wage support. It is absolutely necessary to put in place a pay-as-you-go scheme. What was presented on Friday was far from good enough. It has been better during the weekend, but the main problem remains. It's the rigid arrangement where one has to use either permitting or wage support, which means that if a company can't find meaningful work for absolutely everyone added, but still wants to make sure that at least some people are able to go to work, they don't get any payroll support. It's too rigid. I think that would lead to more lay-offs than necessary. There has also been sharp resistance from, among other things. employers' side of the world of work. That is why I take up proposal No. 13, from the Left, to make sure that it is possible to receive wage support also with a combination of full and partial leave, and hopes that as many parties as possible will support this today, so that we can get a good system that works best – not a half-way good system. Finally, I would also like to inform you that the Left subsidiary will support proposal No. 12, which applies to municipal compensation schemes, and hopes that as many as possible, with the decisions being made today, can at least breathe a little easier into Christmastime.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1518	Will the representative Sveinung Rotevatn also address the proposals from the Left and the proposal from the Left, along with the Greens?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1523	Yes, he will.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1528	Then the representative Sveinung Rotevatn has drawn up all the proposals on which the Left is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1533	The year we've been through has shown that things can be unpredictable, and how good it is that we have as strong muscles as we have here in Stortinget, and as the government suggests for Stortinget to use. For 2021, the sum of emergency measures is estimated to be about 90 B.C.E. kr, who has gone to deal with the coronary crisis we are in. It shows the privilege we as Norwegian elected and state councils have when we can use these muscles. We expect this year to have an oil money consumption of 380 billion. kr. It's incredibly powerful. What's also interesting, if you read the recent aging, is how much higher we've gotten from the oil and gas sector in 2021 than you thought you'd get when you planned last year. There have been hugely higher revenues from the oil and gas sector in 2021 than was thought to be when planning last year, due to higher oil and gas prices. It's estimated at about 272 billion. kr in net cash flow from the oil and gas sector, which can be used next time in the community. There are several interesting numbers, too, if you go into it a little bit, for example. in the case of unemployment: already at the beginning of this month, we were back at the pre-crisis level, and large parts of the Norwegian economy are experiencing a very strong growth. Then some of the things that are difficult when we're in a new infectious disease prevention situation, that although individual industries now have very tough times and that for individuals is very demanding, other parts of Norwegian business are doing very well. So it's a very two-part picture: sometimes there's a shortage of labour, and elsewhere people are really worried about their job and their everyday lives. We never have to forget that when we see the big numbers, because in large numbers, individuals and individuals can get away quickly. Therefore, it is so important that we continue to have new arrangements that are adapted to the current situation. When we made a new aging proposition at the beginning of December – if I don't remember completely wrong, it was on December 2nd that we introduced the new aging process – it was a rather different infection discussion than today. Therefore, it is quite natural that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV now come with the 500 million. kr to the compensation scheme, which will help. I will show you how this will turn out, for the representative Tina Bru was concerned about, for example. the winter sports resorts. As we thought the distribution would be now, a municipality like Trysil, which has a lot of winter sports, will receive an estimated amount of over 2.1 million. kr. They have 6,600 inhabitants. While a municipality like Løten, which has 7,600 inhabitants, will receive 462 000 kroner, because factors have been introduced that make serving, accommodation and travel activities dominating how the money is distributed. Then the municipalities that have a lot of travel lives, and a lot of winter sports places, will get out better – and also the first quarter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1546	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1551	We note that the government is signalling new and extended financial support measures to compensate for the consequences of the disease protection measures. So far there's a signal and nothing of great importance to the Storting. It is also signaled that changes will be made, including: in the general compensation scheme. The question is, When can the Storting expect us to get concrete cases to deal with so that we can make decisions and create predictability for the companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1556	It is very important to be told to the companies that in all the discussions that have been, it has never been known to me that there have been any parties that have taken the floor to weaken the proposals that have come from the government. As a result, enterprises can plan on the basis of this. In the wage support scheme for which a majority has now been formed, all parties have always – at least in the last round – backed it up, even though it was different earlier this year when the Right, Christian People's Party and Left did not want a pay support scheme in the way we have today. As I announced to the factions of the financial committee in an informal meeting yesterday, the government is planning to present this over Christmas, estimated in the middle of January.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1563	I would like to challenge the Minister of Finance to provide a proper basis for why this all-or-none principle of wage support is so important to the government. I have not actually heard that, except for a representative of the LO who said that it cannot be so that a low-cost employer chooses between who of the employees who are going to go to work and not. Is it so that the government thinks it is better for everyone to be permissive than for some who are actually able to find meaningful work and meaningful training programmes to be able to go to work with wage support? That's fast what's the option for many of these companies, and we now see that rather permits everyone. Why is it preferable?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1570	We've been busy with two things about this particular issue. One is that we have been concerned about making improvements in the law of the permit itself compared to what the government of which Rotevatn was part did, and that wanted to weaken how much one would get in compensation if one was licensed – that one would no longer get 80 pst. up to 3G – but as the government with the Workers' Party and the Centre Party decided to continue in the autumn and has also proposed to continue now. That's one -- that those who get a permit will get higher compensation. Secondly, we believe that we have listened to those who represent the workers – we have been busy listening to them – and that one is afraid that it is the most vulnerable who can first be permitted. It will, of course, be different from business to business. And then we have a desire to create a system, so that it will be less difficult for an enterprise to take care of the whole workbook, such as. in the old provinces of Rotevatn, Sogn and Fjordane, where the Gloppen Hotel chose to announce that they will do so. I'm very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1580	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1587	New age includes important measures related to the management of the coronary apathy. But having followed the debate that has been around the various measures, I may also feel a certain need for a new aging of my own to the previous government in dealing with the coronary situation. Where there was a goal of calming down, that we should not create uncertainty in the present opposition, it now seems as if creating the most possible game and then doubting whether the arrangements will become something of, and if the multiple stands firm, is a practice that has special right to it. It has well gone so far that on the rogaland bench, the representative Bru takes over the role of the representative Mimir Kristjánsson when it is due to be uncertain about the government. In this process and what's in the new era, the government party is part of the plural. It's in stark contrast to the situation we had, for example. on 19 January, when the opposition was forced to take responsibility and vote through 30 concrete proposals relating to the management of the pandemic, against the proposals of the dwindling government. To one of the proposals now before us – and we are now on proposal No. 13, from the representative Rotevatn, on the wage support scheme – I ask questions about this: When the Stortinget made a decision on 19 January 2021 asking the government to grant wage support, so that people can stay in work rather than be on leave, it is very sad that the Solberg government did not do anything about that arrangement. It is also quite amazing that one now is quite upset that one has spent a whole ten days setting up a payroll scheme, when one, therefore, tramples a clear decision to settle this. So to the concrete proposal of the representative, Mr Rotevatn: one should at least not criticise the Minister of Finance for following up a policy for which there are a number in Stortinget, that one must choose. Putting this pressure also means that people who would have been permitted if the Left had got their way, now will go on payroll support. So this seems both ways, and this has consequences. Therefore, I cannot support proposal No. 13th@item: inlistbox I think it's important now that one vote through the proposals that are here, and then the other will come. And there should be no doubt: there will be multiples for them, and the government party will also be in that plural.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1600	It's interesting to sit at the back of the room here and hear the debate that's going on, and how representatives from the Central Party still seem to think it's an election fight. The election campaign is over and the Central Party has the Ministry of Finance and many representatives of the Financial Committee. What I'm surprised about is that the keyword predictability doesn't seem to be worth mentioning in the focus of government parties. Our goal in the Right has been to create predictability for business. That is why we have also called for measures and compensation mechanisms to be put in place as soon as possible. When the representative Gülsvik comes up here and makes a rather critical contribution to us, I have to say I am somewhat surprised, because I thought we had the same purpose: precisely to create predictability for those parts of the business that have borne the greatest burdens of this pandemic and the measures that have been implemented. I have to add that a crisis like we are now will have different phases, and different phases require different measures. Not all measures can be implemented at the same time. In the phase we are now, where people have experienced two and three lay-offs and the industry itself says that they need to retain professional competence, a generous pay support scheme that can be combined with leavencies will be absolutely crucial, especially for those parts of the industry that hold, among other things. in my home country Telemark: winter destinations. Where parts of the destinations can be maintained and maintained in service, while parts of them will not be economically viable, it must be possible to combine them. That's what's our goal in the Right, that's what we're fighting for -- to keep businesses alive, and to keep people in work and retain the necessary skills for the part of business that needs it. So once again, back to the starting point: the election campaign is over. We have to hold a debate that is at least partly honest, and where one understands partly the intentions of the opponent, without attaching motivation to people they do not have.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1611	I noticed that the representative Pollestad thought that under the previous blue-green government there was a point among the opposition that there should be a broad consensus and not a game. I guess that's not exactly the experience we've had all along in this corona period. It was also shown that the Stortinget made 31 proposals already in January, while the government was working on measures against the Korona. What's important, and that's also the position of the Left in this case, is that we have a situation with a pandemic, and we're in a new crisis now. This is about, and it must be the only and important thing for the Storting, to bring forward measures that have an impact on employees and the companies that are now in a difficult situation. That is why, from the beginning of December, the Left has now taken note of the need to put in place a pay support scheme. It finally came. The one we got on Friday was not good enough at all. What you got yesterday has improved during the weekend, but still the main problem is that it is not flexible enough to allow companies to have both permits and wage support at the same time. The change probably makes more people use wage support, that's good, but still there will be a lot of people who don't because it's too rigid. The other thing we've been pressing all the way is that we have to get out money now. Then it is the payments via the municipalities in the new age that have been the only opportunity to get money and money out to those who have the most difficult time before Christmas. That's where the blue-green majority last year made the arrangement that we now have, using a new age of 250 million. kr. We have had proposals all the way in and are happy that today we have a decision that gets funds out. Then it is important to follow up the municipalities. Last year they managed to get this out also to those who needed it the most, the fastest in a week or two. Now we have to keep the pressure because they're doing the same thing again. It is better to get the funds out quickly, although there may be differences in how fair it can be. This is about getting it out quickly. Since there have been several rounds, we must now make sure that it has not become too cumbersome. This is about having employees who are in a difficult situation. They're going to celebrate Christmas, and they're also going to pay the electricity bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1626	A household budget does not function in the same way as a government budget. People with low or even very common income cannot cover current expenditure on funds or billions of dividends. On 23 December, 24 December and 25 December, it is not just time for Christmas celebration. There are also expiration dates for the power bill for November too many – a sky-high bill the government does not cover with its power package. We in Red keep our proposal to pay out money in December to cover just this bill, as well as a larger package in months to come. The government makes a lot more money on the sky-high power prices than the state pays back. When the state acts as a cynical capitalist, the power industry becomes the winners, and households and industry become the losers. Right now, people get their budgets eaten up at both ends. They have to pay the November bill while they can read that new price records are being put on electricity yesterday and today. In most cases, people in South Norway today have to pay 8 kroner and 22 cents per kilowatt-hour, including fees and online rentals – 6 kroner and 12 cents without. A few months ago, we got headlines if the price went above 1 or 2 kroner. That's crazy. We have a power crisis we haven't seen our husband in, and it doesn't seem to be going to be solved with the first one, even with the government's power package. I would like to challenge Minister of Finance Vedum and hear what he thinks about the government's actions in the light of the new price records. Has the government done enough to help people pay at the prices we now see, while the November bills are due? That's now the nets are getting long and the cold is inserting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1645	It's actually like we're going towards Christmas, there's not many days until Christmas Eve, but it's also like we have historically high power prices that when new ones rise every single day. It's both 5, 6, 7 and 8 dollars per kWh, and it's a dramatic situation for many. The government chose not to give a penny to ordinary people. Then I don't think about support and social assistance, there's a part given. But this applies to approx. 200,000 households, and there's a raft of 2.5 million households in Norway, so ordinary people don't get anything right now before Christmas, and it's dramatic for a lot of people. I would also like to challenge the Minister of Finance, and I hope that he will rejoice from the Christmas card writing and hear what I say, because there is an unlikely special situation, quite different from what has happened in the past when it relates to the processing time of these packages. Now there's a situation where the sums of streams are formidable. But what's very special about it, the other way around, is that the finance minister and the Norwegian state can actually laugh from here to the bank, because so far one's got 30-40 billion. kr in additional income. There are formidable incomes collected by the country, while large expenditures are made by the inhabitants. To make it easier: I got a message from home, from More, today. There a network company has managed to send a kind of penalty fee of 250 kroner to all customers because this hall, Stortinget, has postponed the new rental model. It's all "indiscriminate" to come up with something like that. So in a situation where prices are going completely off the hook, a network company is able to send an extra charge of 250 kroner and reason that the Stortinget has made a decision to postpone a model, such as this. Gudbrandsdal Energy today said that seven out of ten customers would get higher power costs. So some online companies respond by doing the opposite and sending out an extra bill. I would like to know to the right if the Minister of Finance can answer whether the government intends to do something about such a network company, if they are to be allowed to do so. I sincerely hope that they will not be allowed to do so. And then I sincerely hope that the Minister of Finance can say something about what he's going to do now at the Christmas. Could it be a matter of calling in an extra space Christmas meeting – or what it might be? At least it's a very precarious situation for most people, and the prices are extremely high.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1658	The representative Pollestad compared me instead with the representative Mimir Kristjánsson. I am a little uncertain whether I will take it as a compliment, but if the representative Pollestad in it adds that I have been loud and annoying to the government, then I am living perfectly well with it in this matter. That's what I've been busy about, that's why I've been involved in the debate on wage support, because I think it hasn't been good enough, and that it's also been necessary to press the government to come up with a solution. Then I hear that the representative Pollestad explains why they are so concerned that you should not be able to combine permitting and wage support with putting pressure, that is, a kind of concept of solidarity, and that it is all or none. If you want to permite, you get to permite everyone, you can't just have someone at work. What kind of distrust is it to those who own businesses? I am very uncertain about what companies the representative Pollestad has been talking to over the weeks we have now discussed this arrangement. I have not met a single company that wants to permit; everyone prefers to use the payroll scheme because they want to keep people at work, but it has not been good enough. Now it's getting better, after all the rounds we've had, but it wasn't – as the government presented it – good enough for them to dare do it. On the contrary, there are some companies that even leave to permit, even if they cannot use the payroll scheme, because they care for their employees. I think with all due respect that the representative Pollestad should hit a little more businesses, not express such distrust. Then I'm accused of creating uncertainty. It's okay, I've been engaged in this debate, but I'm not the one who created this uncertainty. I haven't seen anyone write anywhere that the representative Tina Bru now creates enormous uncertainty for their business, for what kind of system to deal with. What we have reacted to is not that there will be press conferences either. We're responding to the fact that there's nothing going on in the Storting, that you can't quite know what it's for the majority. A good example of this is that two days after the Minister of Economic Affairs had presented this scheme on Friday, he sat in political quarters and opened up – almost spontaneously – that one could change it. Fortunately, SV finally came to the negotiating table yesterday, and it was then possible to agree on something. So now you know at least what there is a majority for in the Biggest – even though the Biggest hasn't dealt with anything yet. So that's the situation. You would like to have press conferences in the government, but I expect you to come to the Stortinget and get a decision. That's what we did when we were in government. We also had press conferences, and then it came to Stortinget. And yes, the arrangements were changed, but that's quite natural, and then at least the Storting could relate to something and make decisions. With this in any case, I want to thank for the cooperation during the autumn that has been, and use the opportunity to wish everyone a really good Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1671	The great usemya that says no is what is about flexibility in wage support schemes. There we have in the opposition challenge the government on what's the reason one should have this all-or-none principle. Now some answers are coming through the debate. The answer from the Minister of Finance is that they have chosen to listen to LO, not to employers. The answer from the representative Pollestad is that he believes that if you can have flexibility, more hosts will be allowed to do so. I'm a little uncertain about how he wants to justify it. Now a lot is being sent out a cancellation notice. There are at least no companies I have to talk to – NHO, Works or others – that think there will be more lay-offs if one has flexibility in the scheme, so that one can keep more people in work by receiving wage support. So this theory that more people are going to be permitted through a more flexible system, I think that the representative Pollestad needs to give a better reason, and I think that, given who he's talking to in this case, it might sound like these are very few business owners. As the representative Bru said, I would say that this suggests a great deal of distrust of the social responsibility that corporate owners are actually able to take. Not least in current industries, no one wants to lose their jobs and employees. On the contrary, what they are now most afraid of in the industries that have been shut down after shutdown is that they lose the competent labour force they want to keep. Then the impression is made by the representative Pollestad that in the previous period the present opposition was very responsible and cooperative in the context of the support schemes, while now there is a totally irresponsible opposition that creates insecurity. So this comes from the same game that, at least the way I think it, had some plays and suggestions during pandemic management. I would like to mention a small selection: One said that we were going to import Sputnik vaccines from Russia, without their being approved in Europe. One would throw away tens of billions of money to the taxpayers to save the longevity of Norwegian. This would go directly to Chinese leasing companies. One also suggested and decided in Stortinget to lift the national tipping stop one week before there was a new major cut-off. One might call this different thing, but especially responsible it wasn't. As the representative of Ola Elvestuen pointed out quite correctly: when a decision was taken in the Storting on various support schemes, there was a large number of appeal decisions, where a government asked the government to do something that the government was already in the process of doing. Of course, it is good with impatience, but the cooperation in the previous period was largely very good – fortunately. I actually also thought that there is a lot that now has worked well. The government has, after a while, listened to recordings from the opposition and from the social debate. It's positive. That's how we got a better pay-as-you-go scheme than the government put forward. That's how we finally got money on the table for a compensation scheme for the municipalities, which one thought was completely unnecessary for a week. This helps us to take the development in the right direction, and then I actually believe that the input from the opposition is a good and not a negative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1680	The case of the compensation scheme is that employers are faced with a choice when they have a decrease in turnover — if they see that they have to use the agency or if they see a possibility of using wage support. What is joyous throughout the days when the Workers' Party-Center Party government has worked intensively, in cooperation with the parties and in good dialogue with SV, is that there are more and more players who have previously announced permits, who now say that a person withdraws the permit waivers again and instead wants to use the pay support scheme – for example the hotels Alexandra in Loen and Britain in Trondheim, but also large hotel chains such as Nordic Choice and Scandic. They just had a plan to permit a certain proportion of their employees, but now they're saying they're choosing salary support instead. So to the representative Sve, it's nice to hear the representative Sve's commitment to caring for people who are struggling with high power prices. I am also pleased that the Progress Party has now, after first proposing a flat amount to all households, in the subsequent proceedings in Stortinget, submitted for variants of the model of the government parties. We are going to contribute reinforced measures to those who are struggling with high electricity prices, but the crucial thing in the future is to get control of electricity prices, both for people and households in Norway. The representative Sve represents the Progress Party, which was the party in the Ministry of Oil and Energy and gave concession to DC cable both to Germany and the United Kingdom. They sat with the Minister of Energy when they were in position, and together with the majority of the population, they ensured that vital parts of Norwegian energy and industrial policies were put into the hands of the EU through the accession to the EU’s third energy market package. It was also a State Secretary in the Ministry of Oil and Energy who, on behalf of Norway, signed a declaration in 2015 saying that one would not limit the flow of electricity in times of high electricity prices. That's what we have to work with today's framework conditions. We will work in a targeted way, including through the follow-up to the Hurdal platform and what it says, namely to determine how Norwegian exports of power affect security of supply and Norwegian electricity prices, and what concrete measures can help to safeguard the competitiveness of Norwegian industry in the future. It is an important task – both to clarify what action spaces are within the EEA Agreement to ensure security of supply, including in relation to models such as the maximum price, and to be open and honest about the limitations to which the EEA Agreement, to which the majority of this room swears, gives us as a nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1689	Right-wing representative Farahman called for more predictability. I think that's something we all in this room could have wanted, but unfortunately the coronary virus is anything but predictable, and neither the previous or this government has in any way tried to call on that virus. When the Right calls for predictability, it may be worth recalling Erna Solberg's words as late as September 24th: "Now we can live so to say as we did before the pandemic hit us". On 12 September Jan Tore Sanner presented the last State budget of the Solberg government. It was a government budget almost free of corona measures and with a headline on a more normal budget for 2022. So just a few months ago, the reality picture was a completely different one, a reality where the right didn't have a lot of corona measures, because you didn't think it would be necessary. Then we have a new government that has tried to turn around in a few weeks. Does this mean that everything is perfect? In no way, but during that time, a wage support, powerful measures have been put in place through the municipalities, the possibility of deferred payment of taxes and charges for enterprises, loan guarantee schemes, support schemes for cultural industries and powerful measures against public transport, so that not significant parts of them are lost. Not least, we now have arrangements with, among other things. an extension of the increased rate of leave, which means something to those who now feel an uncertainty about work. Rapid action may sometimes lead to a slight lack of clarity at times, but paralysis of action would be much worse. We now have a situation where we have the value that we have a fairly predictable majority in this big business, between the Workers' Party, the Center Party and SV. We've seen that in the last few days, you've managed to make a majority in a completely different way from what the previous government was able to do, when it lost its majority in government and had to seek cooperation with parties in the Storting that were not always just as predictable to deal with. Both Rotevatn and Bru have been within the payroll support proposal and the requirements for leave that lie there. I'm going to be open and honest to say that I understand that you can argue for both ways to view it, but the interesting thing is that both Rotevatn and Bru have almost exclusively been concerned with the employer's side when they've stood here and argued for the Left's proposal. At least one could be honest that there is a very substantial disagreement here, where the workers side, at LO, have pointed out that they do not want the proposal that the Left has now promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1701	It was pointed out from the Right that it might remind you that the election campaign was not over, but it is an commitment that we should deal with the effects of the pandemic in the best possible way, so that workers and businesses get the least damage through a difficult time. What was electoral campaign was perhaps the scholastic struggle that we heard from the representative Rotevatn, but I'm going to leave it. Christmas greeting from Tina Bru ended at least nicely. We notice what was said earlier, but I need to comment on some things. The one thing is that we should be proud of the system of leave that we have in Norway. It's an efficient system, and it's a system that we're going to call about. Of course, all companies want the longest to keep people at work. It's only when you don't have an option that you have to go to that step to permit. When you have payroll support, choose one to pay for having people in jobs that someone else would have permitted, and that's in the situation we've made a valuation. In order to balance the concerns of businesses and employees, we have said that one must choose whether to receive wage support, but then one cannot afford to leave at the same time. It is good to see that large hotel chains now say that they keep adding payroll support. I'm pretty sure that if the Left gets a pass on its claim, more companies will think that no, we can't all, so we have to afford, for example. 10 p.m., and then we take wage support for 90 p.m. We have a sense of solidarity at the bottom of this. But once again, it's especially to hear the opposition criticise the process for this. One has spent ten days developing this pay support system. There have been improvements along the way, just because one has been recorded and listened. I would like to thank all those who have taken the trouble to make their contributions to how this turns out for their working day and their company. So I know it's unpleasant, but I have to remind you that the Storting ordered a payroll scheme in January and asked the Solberg administration to sort it out, and they haven't done a single thing to do it. It is then especially now to come and criticise that this government is showing the power of action and is securing multiples for a pay support scheme of nine or ten days.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1716	At the end of the day, politics is about people. We can discuss different arrangements, but at the end we see how it works for people and businesses – that's when we see if it works. That's why I think it's very nice to read the news that's coming right now. We heard earlier this week that Britain and some of the medium-sized hotels chose to withdraw their permits. It made me very happy when I read that there were 292 pieces in Britain – it is a big hotel, but not part of a chain – that could, instead of being on leave, keep their work. So we've seen today that a great chain like Choice, and Scandic and Thon, the largest and heaviest hotel chains -- none of them say that the payroll scheme is perfect, neither do I, but they say it's part of the help -- withdraws the leave. That's great. We also see some smaller places that do. In my neighboring town, Lillehammer, there's a pub, Heim Gastropub, who now chooses to pull permits and use payroll support and have people at work. It happens very well, and it's a little bit important when discussing this. The reality you see out there is the one that's crucial. So to power: for the government, it's a very clear goal, it says in the Hurdal platform, that we want to get the power prices down. For a rather long time, there has been a political majority in Norway that wanted to raise electricity prices. It told the previous government that they had an explicit goal, and they did a lot of work to get it done. Today's government has said that we want to work to get the power prices down, and we've started to grab hold of it. It's a long-term work. One thing you can do, of course, depends on fees. We did that right away, because you could do that overnight. From 1 January we reduce the level of electricity charges by 47 pst. When the power prices are as high as they are now, of course, there's a small share of the bill, but it's a permanent measure, which you also want to enjoy when we get the power price down more. Then we also have the insurance scheme that we adopted, just to make it a little less difficult for people. We know that the insurance scheme – housing support, student scheme and other security measures –can make it a little less difficult. At the bottom, however, there is an analysis by the government that we need to put in place measures to lower market prices in the electricity market. It is an important competitive advantage for our industry in the long term, and it is also important for most people and workers around the country. Then we get to enjoy -- some parties would want one to sell out more of the hydropower -- that we have a public ownership of it, that we have official control over that piece. The government believes that we must have a clear public thinking about how we should manage to get the power prices down, and not have the price we see today. That is why the government has said no to new inter-national connections, which the previous government said yes to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1727	Christmas peace is sinking well after a while also in this hall, or it looks like this. I note that the representative Geelsvik from the Center Party is very busy with the past, but that he is getting back in a bit because it is important to think ahead and see what a person can do to get the price permanently lower. It is then that the signatures have made a proposal to make network rentals cheaper, because there is a state monopoly system where a reference interest rate of 5.59 pst is currently being established, which is sky-high above what is the normal level of interest in the country. So we can do something about it. In addition, online rents come as a monopoly issue in general and bring that system down. I sincerely hope that the Centre Party can be with the Progress Party at that time and help to get cheaper online rentals for the inhabitants. In addition, the signatures with several forward suggestions to retrace the cables to the rest of the world when they are based, with low magazine fillings in Norway. It is permissible in the agreements that are there, § 12 in particular. So I sincerely hope that the Center Party will also be able to vote with the Advance Party in order to bring the export down, and thus get more power in the home country, which will lower the prices. When you look at power prices in general, you have to have more power in your own countries. We would also like, among other things: Saying stop to electrification of the socket, because if one is going to use our own water power, send it out on the socket and send the gas back to Europe and produce power from it there, at least there is less power in Norway. Several power companies have determined that they are concerned that it will reduce power in Norway and increase prices further. The Centre Party may also vote with the Progress Party to stop the electrification of the base. These are three good proposals where one can take action to increase the number of jobs in Norway in Norwegian energy and in Norwegian industry, and which can actually provide cheap and good electricity in Norway, prevent the flow from being exported, and increase the flow remaining in Norway. Ergo will actually go down in Norway. So it's actually possible to do things together. Then it is that people actually have to vote for the proposals that can lead to the electricity price falling in Norway, and that we get more power in own countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1744	The representative of Mørland accused the right that we talked too much about the employer's side and the employers' views. It's a well-known case that the Storting doesn't exactly have plenty of people who have experience in managing businesses, own businesses, and have employees. But I can guarantee the representative Tellef Inge Mørland that the worst thing that an employer can do to himself, the worst thing that an employer goes through, is to have to cancel people and permit people. It is very unpleasant to take income from people and create the uncertainty it gives people when you have to weigh the company's consideration up against the employee's consideration. So including the employer perspective in the debate is absolutely in place, and I think that when we tighten up so fast – whoever's in the government – it's precisely those who have people employed, who are perhaps best able to see what will work there and then to keep people a little longer. Therefore, I would like to strike a blow to take the employer’s perspective with me. Then we note that the LO has got the last word in terms of flexibility in the scheme. I think that's gross. There we disagree, but the majority decides. In the case of corona, it's interesting to read the last edition of The Lancet. Last year they wrote a leader saying that we are now on our way to "zero" covid-19, we can get a society without corona, now we have a space of action if we get to this – if we get a really good global vaccination campaign, we can succeed. Today they write in the lead place that that dream we can forget, we're now there that we have to decide what level of corona we're going to accept; we have to think differently. I also think that here in the Great Britain we are going to take over: Korona is probably here to stay. But in that perspective, it is not in Norway that we solve the level of corona, it is done globally. We have to assume that we have to play a role globally to deal with it. Norway has done a good job through CEPI and COVAX cooperation, but we need to spend more resources on global action against the corona. So that's my Christmas wish: that we get a real swing at the vaccination work. Norway has a proud tradition, we have strong skills, we've been central to stopping other epidemics, so we can also put on the leadership sweater there. With that I wish Christmas to all of us. The vaccination campaign in Norway is one thing – for us, it's about resource-intensive people who have some idea that vaccines are unhealthy – but the big vaccine fight is going on globally.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1759	To the representative of Stensland: I have not in any way charged them with talking too much about the employer's side. On the contrary, Stensland would like to talk more about the employer’s side. Just because this government is concerned about the need for businesses to cope with this crisis, a number of measures have been taken to ensure that we have the best opportunities to cope with this. My accusation, on the other hand, was that when one now argues for the proposal that the Left has promoted on wage support and permitations, one forgets to include the employee side. At least for the Workers' Party, it is essential to have what the employees' side had to experience. Very often you agree, but in some cases there is a difference between the interests you have as an employer and employee, and then it was interesting to note how both the Right and the Left argued for this proposal. Then I fully agree, I think, with Stensland on the issue of vaccination and how we solve the coronary challenges we face, which are again reflected in this new age. This is a good proof that the challenges we are now facing at national level must be solved globally, and both in terms of vaccination, medicines and the fight against infectious diseases, we see that international solidarity is really also solidarity with ourselves, because we are part of a larger picture here in the world. Then we need to face each other both nationally and internationally if we are to be able to solve these kinds of challenges. Today, government parties and SV promote proposals that at least help to make it a little easier for both employees and employers to face the current situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1768	Frank Edvard Sve has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1773	I asked the Minister of Finance if the government would accept that there is a network company sending a fee of NOK 250, which is the reason why Stortinget does not introduce the new network rental scheme from the new year, and whether the government would find itself in it. I would like an answer from the Minister of Finance to see if this is something the government wants to see. I also want to send a written question to the oil and energy minister about it, because I think it is quite special. It is NRK More and Romsdal that report that a network company in More and Romesdal has sent it out. I think it is very special that a fee is sent out on the grounds that the Storting has made a decision to suspend the rental arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1778	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1791	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1803	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Mimir Kristjánsson on behalf of Red the proposals No 3 and 4, by Dagfinn Henrik Olsen on behalf of the Progress Party proposal No 5, from Gisle Meininger Saudland on behalf of the Progress Party Proposal No. In the course of the debate, 5 has been converted into a transmission proposal and the wording is replaced by the following: ‘It is recommended that the Government make the necessary proposals to ensure that persons who have previously been granted assistance from the public interest, if necessary and entitled to renewal, are provided with equivalent means to those they all have if they wish and are not significantly more expensive than other alternative means.’ The proposal shall be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. There is a vote on proposal No. One from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked, at the latest in the revised national budget for 2022, to come back to the Stortinget with a case to introduce an advance-based compensation scheme for the victims of the social security scandal according to a model from the Netherlands.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1837	There is a vote on proposal No. Two, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking, at the latest in the revised national budget for 2022, to come back to the Grand Duchy with a case to amend the legal aid system for the victims of the social security scandal, so that those who believe they are mistreated by Nav can obtain legal aid regardless of whether the Labour and Welfare Act has taken a new decision in their case.’ The Group of the Greens/European Progressive Democrats and the Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1854	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to make the necessary proposals for amendments to the Law on Social Security in order to ensure that, when assessing whether conditions for disability have been met, no emphasis can be placed on how the medical disability affects future income opportunities.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e1869	There is a vote on proposal No. 4th from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to make the necessary proposals to introduce the obligation of activity for all age groups receiving social assistance.’ The right has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e5364	Behind the setting are the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Red Party, the Left Party, the Green Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e8445	During the debate, Mr Henrik Olsen put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposals are being voted on. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit the necessary legislative proposals to ensure the right to daily allowances and sick pay for all employees regardless of age.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to stop the claim for reimbursement of the daily allowance for older workers who received this payment from Nav during the coronary apathy.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e8476	The Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e8488	It turns out that several have voted incorrectly. We'll vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e11678	Behind the setting are the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Red Party, the Left Party, the Green Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e11699	All in all, eleven proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Tina Bru on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party the proposals No 2-4, by Hans Andreas Limi on behalf of the Progress Party proposal No 5, from Sveinung Rotevatern on behalf of the Left and the Greens the proposals No 6, 10 and 11, from Marie Sneve Martinussen on behalf of Rødt the proposals No 8 and 13, from Sveinung Rotevatern on behalf of Left proposal No 12, from Lise Christoffersen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 8 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2021 is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e11798	There is a vote on proposal No. 13 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size of the scheme requires the government in its proposal for wage support to ensure that undertakings qualify for aid even if the enterprise initiates, in whole or in part, the leave of other employees during the period of aid.’;» The Green Party and the Christian People's Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e11815	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 10 and 11, from Red. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2021 is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e11959	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2021 is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e12037	There is a vote on proposal No. 5. from the Left and the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2021 is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e12116	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2-4, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2021 is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e12327	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2021 is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e12403	There is a vote on proposal No. 12, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2021 is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e15206	Behind the setting are the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Red Party, the Left Party, the Green Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-21.ana.ud567e15229	There is no record. This means that today's map has been completed, and the President will remind you that the first meeting of the New Year will be Wednesday, January 5. As this is the last big meeting in 2021, the President will take the opportunity to thank everyone for the efforts made this autumn. The President would like all the representatives, the members of the government, all the employees, the press and everyone else who has their work related to the Stortinget, a happy Christmas and a really good new year! Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
