ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e28	The representative of Ingunn Foss, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. The representative of Håkon Elvenes will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e38	On behalf of the representatives of Jan Tore Sanner, Henrik Asheim, Tore Vamraak, Nikolai Astrup, Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde, Mudassar Kapur and myself, a proposal for an external quality assurance of the calculations of the socio-economic impact of the interconnection of power transmission between Bærum and Oslo is promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e43	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e59	On Monday, the Stortinge received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Odd Roger Enoksen, Anette Trettebergstuen and Sandra Borch will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative of Harek Elvenes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e68	The current situation experienced by Poland at the border with Belarus is very serious. Poland is under direct pressure from migrants sent from the Aleksandr Lukashenko regime. This is to hit Poland and eventually disintegrate and destabilise Europe. Poland is Norway's ally through NATO. During a telephone conversation with his Polish colleague, the US Secretary of State, Antony Blinken, expressed his full support for Poland. This statement of support has since been followed up by similar statements by the US Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin. The President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, has described the situation as a hybrid attack by Belarus. It is not as easy to track the same support from the Norwegian Government. To the Defence Forum on 17 November, Norway’s Minister of Defence criticises Poland and says of the handling of the situation that it is not acceptable. Is the government behind the opinion of the Council of State and has the government taken a different approach to an ally than both the United States and the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e77	It is a fact that Poland is one of our allies, and Norway, of course, is behind our allies, in the same way as all other nations. The question I answered was a specific question related to a specific incident, in which I still believe today that the way it was handled was not acceptable. This does not mean, of course, that Norway does not support our allies, but we as a nation also need to have our own opinion on whether the ways in which our allies respond are within what we think is acceptable or not, and that was the question that was answered by me.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e82	It may seem to be a little fast in the lab to take on a single event when faced with such a complex image as Poland is at the border of Belarus. It is a fact that refugees are often victims of a cynical game through organized crime. These are vulnerable people who are being exploited by countries that want to destabilise NATO countries. What kind of signal does the Council of State believe to send to authoritarian leaders if European countries do not support each other in this kind of issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e87	The situation at the border between Belarus and Poland is demanding. It is demanding both for Belarus and for Poland, and what we have seen recently is that the conditions for these refugees on the border have been better protected also on the Belarusian side. We have to think of that as positive. For us, it is important to contribute where we can contribute. In this case, there's probably little we can do. If this is part of a hybrid warfare and organized, it's unacceptable, and of course, the allies should stand behind if necessary. As I said, my answer was a specific case in which the handling from the Polish side, in my opinion, was not the way it should be, and that is what I have said to the Defence Forum.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e92	There will be follow-up questions – first Ingerd Schou.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e97	In the autumn of 2015, the whole of Europe was hit by a refugee crisis, and in Norway we remember the sudden and uncontrolled migration over Storskog in Finnmark. Migrants arrived on bicycles from Russia in large numbers, and the situation at Storskog had some similarities with what is happening at the border between Belarus and Poland today. Authoritarian leaders have learned that it is possible to press European countries. For example, in March 2020, Turkey rushed for migrants to Greece across the border in the north. It is obvious that the refugees have now been picked up to Belarus to be sent to Poland. Does not the Council of State see that this is a hybrid warfare and that authoritarian leaders are trying to push democratic countries and destabilize Europe?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e102	I think we should be careful to conclude exactly what's behind it. There's a lot that reminds me of hybrid warfare in this case, but to conclude that it is, I wouldn't have done that for sure. What is in any case a fact is that there is a difficult situation to face for Poland at the border with Belarus, and it requires attention from all. There's a situation that we also see can quickly occur elsewhere. I fully agree with the representative that the situation we had in 2015 in Storskog is reminiscent of what we are now looking at at the border between Belarus and Poland.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e107	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e112	The councils can stand still – I see he does. I have a question, a call and a challenge. Many Norwegians believe that in the capital we have an air force that can protect us from threats from the air. We don't. Ever since NIKE batteries were shut down in 1991, Oslo's population, our social institutions and the Royal Palace have been without air protection. The wall between east and west was torn, and in Norway had talked about military threats went off the mat. Paradoxically, it was about the same time that the NIKE batteries were shut down, that the Norwegian defence industry developed one of the leading air protection environments in NATO, and the Norwegian-developed NASAMS aviation system is now delivered to more than ten allies and related countries. The sale of NASAMS has contributed export revenues of nearly 30 billion. kr. More than 100 Norwegian small and medium-sized enterprises have been or are involved in the development of the production of NASAMS. But the paradoxes are multiple. For while neither the Norwegian defense nor politicians have shown any willingness or interest in providing the capital air protection, the United States, with 9/11 in memory, has since 2005 had air protection around its capital, Washington, D.C. And in the United States it is paradoxically the Norwegian air protection NASAMS that protects Congress, the White House and the Pentagon. In other words, we have the small absurd situation that Norwegian technology protects the capital of our most important allies while at the same time we have no air protection that protects our own capital. The tension in the world is increasing, there is much less predictability, and the need for air protection is greater than ever. New technologies are being developed to allow completely new airborne capabilities, such as long-range hypersonical missiles and precision-guided weapons. So my question to the Minister of Defense is, does the Minister of Defense think that we have enough air protection over the capital?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e126	It is absolutely right that NASAMS is a good air force that has been sold to many nations, and that is also the air force that we have. It is a deplorable air protection system that can be deployed in a very short period of time, on which it is regularly practised – deploying from the earland and to areas where there is a need for air protection, either in practice, testing or training with air protection. It is also the model that Norway has applied to protect critical social infrastructure. If it would be necessary to protect the capital somehow with air protection, it will be done with deployable NASAMS air protection. It is also known to the representative that our air protection capacity should be increased, among other things. on Evens, where we are going to have air protection and where it is also an objective to acquire long-range air protection that is longer than NASAMS has in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e131	It was a non-answer from the Council of State. The fact that they're mobile doesn't help much if you get a missile over Oslo. It takes some time to move on a system, so it's a non-response. Now Norway has spent 300 billion. kr on fighting covid-19 – we have not yet fought it, but we all agree that it should be done. Getting NASAMS costs 15 billion. kr. The 300 billion. kr agreed to compensate businesses that could not produce and sell goods as before. 15 B.C.E. So it's going to be 5 pst. of 300 B.C.E. kr, costs it, and then we can get business going, we can get jobs – not least in the districts, where the government council is involved – and we can actually have a positive impact and technology development also for alternative technologies, which means that this is not a cost but a cost for the acquisition of income.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e138	The representative of Tybring-Gjedde is well aware that there is a plan to expand the air protection capacity we have. NASAMS, as I said in my first answer, is a deplorable air force that will be used where there is a need for it. We do not have standing air protection – nor should we have it – which is what the representative is asking for. The government has no plans for that. Nor are there any previous governments or large-scale groups that have planned to establish the type of air protection that the representative asks about. Further development of air protection is ongoing, including by NASAMS, which will be a future good air protection for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e143	Christian Tybring-Gjedde – for follow-up questions
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e148	I think it's a very disappointing and very surprising response from the Council of State. If he had stood up as a statesman, he would have said, "This is what we're going to do, I'm going to see to it that we get started." This is an investment that I think there is a cross-political consensus about in this room – even the extreme left would agree that we need protection over the capital. Nevertheless, he will not use it, but have a mobile system, which, of course, takes a long time to get in place. So I repeat the question: will the Council of State reconsider this and stand up as a minister who actually does something else? We have often felt that ministers are more concerned about finishing the Council of State job and getting a new job. Will the Council of State now take responsibility and really do something that matters to the Defense, and that means something to the 700,000 people who live in this city, to the social institutions, and not least to the Royal Palace – to protect it, as all other capitals do? So the Council of State chooses to say, this is not important to me. Is this true?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e155	It is a complete error of my response. We have a good defence in Norway, and I think it is striking that the representative Tybring-Gjedde chooses to desavuate the defence we have, and the ways in which we have chosen to protect both the capital and the rest of the country. It's not the case that it takes a long time to deploy the air protection we have. It takes a short time; it is an air protection system that is in readiness and that can be used and inserted where it is needed in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e160	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e165	My question also goes to the Minister of Defense, and it applies to the airport at Evenes. Evens is already before a civil airport and must now also be the base for F-35 fighter aircraft and the new maritime surveillance aircraft, P-8. This requires large investments and the construction of new infrastructure at Evenes. Then it's reported not insignificant problems, now last with noise associated with the F-35, but especially when it comes to the maritime surveillance planes. There are challenges when it comes to fuel supply, there are systems for weapons storage and reinforcement of the P-8 aircraft, there are hangar challenges, where it is about having temporary hangars in three winters ahead, and also the known problems associated with turbulence, which can be particularly challenging when heavy, fullest P-8 planes are going to take off from there. The first P-8 fly, as far as I'm aware, will be delivered in February. So my question is, how did the Council of State feel about progressing on Evenes, and think the Council of State that Evenes will be a good base for our maritime surveillance planes?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e172	It was a good review of some of the challenges we have on Evenes. That is also why I have taken the initiative to carry out an external review of both the economy and other challenges that remain at Evenes, in order to be sure that we can successfully implement the Storting decision. The Evenes project shall be implemented as well as possible within the framework set by the Storting. Then there's probably no doubt that evens has its limitations. It is well known that, among others. the undersigned considers that there are other aerodromes that would have been better suited as base than Evenes is. That doesn't mean Evenes are useless in any way. Evens will be a good base both for the maritime surveillance planes and for the F-35. However, there are significant challenges – the representative has pointed out several of them – that we are now looking at how best to solve them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e177	I thank you for your answer and would like to hear more about this external review when it comes to both the economy and the other challenges. Can the Council of State tell us what time this review will take? And can the Council of State already say something about whether it might be necessary to come to the Storting and ask for increased frameworks to cover additional costs at Evenes?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e182	We aim for the external review to be completed in February. At least it is the goal that we should be able to do it in a few months over the New Year. Whether it's necessary to get back to the Storing is too early to answer. There is no reason to hide that we are completely above the ceiling of the cost framework set for Evenes, and there are considerable remaining investments. So I take into account that it may be necessary to get to Stortinget, but at this point I can neither confirm nor deny that this will be the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e188	Ingrid Fiskaa – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e193	When this review comes in February, it is about the same time that the first P-8 planes are delivered. What is the plan to achieve as good a transition as possible, a phase-in at Evenes? Because it has to be clear before this review is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e198	A temporary hangar is established for the first P-8 aeroplanes to be used until the permanent hanger is ready. It's almost done, and it'll be done by February. So in terms of temporary solutions to receive the first P-8, you're well on track for what's to be done. A temporary hangar number two shall also be established. The work is also in progress. It's a little shorter, but it also looks like it's supposed to be done until flight number two arrives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e205	Ingrid Fiskaa – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e210	I thank you for your answer. I expect the Council of State will come to Stortinget as soon as this review that has been ordered is ready. When it comes to these temporary plastic hangars, which it's actually about, is it still supposed to be a scheme that should be in force for three winters to come? And how does the Council of State consider that it will satisfy the requirements to also have an operational capability for the maritime surveillance flights in the meantime?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e217	Operational capability will be ensured. It's clear that it's not a proper solution in the same way as the permanent hangars are, but no matter where we had established the maritime patrol planes, we would have been dependent on some kind of temporary solutions somehow. Taking into account the time frame, it is not so easy to see any possibility other than that currently established. It will be a good solution in the temporary phase until a permanent hangar is in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e222	Geir Jørgensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e227	As mentioned in the main question, the aerodrome Evenes, which is a civil airport, shall share a flight strip with the Defence from 1 January onwards. Evenes is a large regional airport in North Norway. There are 800,000 passengers flying there every year, and last week we could read that the airline, Onkøe, had made its own noise measurements at the airport. This applies to the fighter aircraft F-35, which will be operating from 1 January. Thus, noxious noise was measured at 138 decibels on the outside of the Onkøe aircraft and 108 decibels inside the aircraft. Here, Onderøe says that if this noise is to persist, they have to consider stopping flights from Evenes, because they cannot expose their cabin crew, pilots and passengers to such noise. What does the Council of State do with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e232	We cannot have a situation in which passengers or employees at the aerodrome will risk hearing damage in any way, so adequate action must be taken. There's been a little bit of different noise measurements. Multiconsult has carried out noise measurements on behalf of both Avinor and Defence. They're showing a little bit of different numbers, but these are also high. Some remedial measures have been taken — if sufficient, are too early to say, but further noise measurements and assessments of the Evenes situation will now be made. There is a discussion between Avinor and the Ministry of Defence on how to solve the noise challenges at Evenes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e239	Geir Jørgensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e244	Then the next question is: it's also that F-35 has an operational character. They shall be able to relax at short notice if necessary. At the same time, Evenes is an important regional airport and we must assume that civil air traffic must take precedence. In case these two things contradict each other, they won't be able to solve: what are we going to fold? Is it F35, who can't take off, or is it the passengers in North Norway, who get a worse route offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e250	Experience from Bodø and QRA averaged one to two calls per week. We expect it to be about the same level at Evens. In connection with that type of assignment, the Defence and F35 will take precedence. Then we talk about civil aircraft possibly having to wait with both landing and taking off. It's a standby period on aircraft that's very short, which means that a callout will take a relatively short time. But it's also in these cases that the noise level is the strongest, in relation to that kind of mission. During training, of which it will also be a good part, the Defense will have to adapt its activity to civil air traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e255	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e260	In the ordinary questionnaire last week, State Council Trettebergstuen asked me about Norway's attitude to the diplomatic boycott of the OL in Beijing that she and the government did not believe in diplomatic boikot as an instrument. The same day the NRK journalists Halvor Ekeland and Lokman Ghorbani landed in Norwegian soil after almost two days on smooth cell in Qatar. It has been confirmed by the authorities of the country that the two were arrested for their journalistic work. Minister of Culture Trettebergstuen was very clear that she was disappointed by FIFA's reaction to the arrest, and a few days later there was a major look in the Class struggle with the Council of State where she said it was not appropriate for Norwegian representatives to go to the football World Cup in Qatar. She pointed out, among other things: on the arrest of the NRK journalists as the reason why Norwegian government powers would not be represented during the championship, which could be read as if boycott were nevertheless a possible instrument for this type of sporting event. I have to say that I was happy when I read the statements of the Council of State to the Class struggle, but on the basis of the Trettebergstuen's response in the questionnaire last week, and also on the basis of the fact that the Norwegian authorities were not represented in the Football World Cup in Brazil in 2014 or in Russia in 2018, I am left with the following question: Is it that Norway did not qualify for the World Cup, which is why the Council of State is not going to go there, or is it Qatar's brutal treatment of guest workers, lack of press freedom and other human rights violations that make the Council of State feel that it is inappropriate for Norwegian representatives to travel to Qatar?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e267	Thank you for the question. First, I want to say that I share Melby's concern about the conditions she addresses in Qatar. What the two Norwegian journalists experienced on their work trip to Qatar is a completely unacceptable violation of the integrity of journalists and an attack on the free press. The Norwegian authorities have responded to this. So it's true, as the representative Melby says, that I'm very disappointed and upset, I would say, about the failure of FIFA to respond to what has happened. Here FIFA had a good opportunity to stand up for important fundamental human rights – an opportunity they do not use. But I also think that the representative Melby should read the Class Battle essay again. I have replied that no, it is not relevant for me to travel to Qatar. Nor, as far as I know, is it relevant for other representatives of the Norwegian authorities to participate, and the back cover is primarily that Norway is not qualified. We do not have the habit of being represented at international sporting events in which Norway does not participate. It's the back porch for it. There are no plans for any kind of diplomatic boikot of football World Cup in Qatar by the Norwegian authorities. As with the previous government, as the representative Melby put in himself a few weeks ago, this is not with boycott a line that this government, or Norway, has the tradition of leading.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e274	Then I would like to clarify again that I am familiar with there was no official line from the previous government attached to it with boikot. In the left, we definitely believe that it is an instrument that should be used. State council says she's very disappointed with FIFA's lack of response. There is very little to suggest that the conditions that have been pointed out by a lot of people have to be corrected in Qatar in order to keep a bigger international championship there have been remedied. One thing is that the Council of State says she's disappointed with FIFA, but my question is really, what is the Council of State going to do? How has the Council of State intended to use its own and not least the influence of Norwegian authorities to help improve the situation, among others? for guest workers in Qatar, to ensure freedom of the press and not least to ensure the safety of those travelling there?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e281	I'm very concerned about the human rights situation in Qatar. There is something the entire government and the Norwegian authorities are behind it. As the representative Melby also knows, the Norwegian authorities have responded to what our two NRK journalists experienced last week, when they were arrested at work. In various ways, the Norwegian authorities have responded to it with respect to the authorities of Qatar. It is also the case that the Norwegian sport has reacted to the FIFA International Football Association. I am very clear in my dialogue with the sports, in the conversations we have, that the values of Norwegian sports champions, openness, fundamental human rights, freedom of the press, etc. are something that the Norwegian authorities also support, as we want, and something that we support that sport addresses. So the Norwegian authorities have already addressed the specific issues, and we are going to continue to address the human rights situation in our dialogue with Qatar.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e290	There will be follow-up questions – Guri Melby.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e295	I guess there are things that might indicate that the methods we have used so far for Qatar and FIFA have not worked very well and have not been very effective, but of course it is always reassuring to hear that the Norwegian authorities have reacted. Last week, Parliament in the United Kingdom had a somewhat similar discussion related to the OL in Beijing. There was the answer from the British government: currently no tickets have been purchased. So they haven't decided that they want to go in for boycott, but they haven't rejected it either. In the United States, President Joe Biden has taken the initiative in a debate on boycott. The question is then: does the rejecting attitude of the Council of State Trettebergstuen have shown so far, how many of our closest allies have to go in for boikott in order that we should at all raise the discussion here in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e302	There is no current line for the Norwegian authorities to boycott the OL. Nor has it been the line of any other government – nor the line of the Guri Melby government itself. We have no tradition of boycotting international sporting events. I mean it's an unwise line to ingest. On the contrary, Norway has a rich tradition of dialogue with other countries, including difficult issues. We don't stop talking to people in the fight for human rights and freedom of expression. The same thing that I just explained about the World Cup in Qatar, also applies to OL.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e307	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e312	Culture, sport and volunteering constitute Norway’s largest population movement. It contributes to good public health, participation and inclusion and creates local commitment and community. For the Right, cultural life, volunteering and sport are independent building blocks in our many communities, and our job is among others. ensuring a diversity of sources of funding. The government itself writes that it is an objective to ensure good funding of and great freedom for volunteering, but the practical policy so far shows a different reality. In order to meet the promise of full wage compensation — where the new government has invested 150 million. kr at the top of the Solberg Government already $1750 million. kr – Cuts the government dramatically elsewhere. The government will liquidate the card to save 400 million. kr and shut down the gift-enhancement scheme, which brought in more than 800 million. private crowns for culture and volunteering in 2020. But they don't go there. They also reduce the tax deduction on gifts to volunteering from NOK 50 000 to NOK 25 000. This will result in a dramatic reduction in private donations to the many activities of volunteering. For us in the Right, it's obvious that the new government is now wondering about volunteering. To have to pay about 1,500 million. kr in lost revenues to finance 150 million. kr for full VAT compensation is a bad trade. In the election campaign, I discussed the gift-enhancing scheme with the Council of State several times, and she said each time that it was more sensible and precise, if necessary, to increase the limits of tax exemptions on gifts. Then the question is, has the Minister of Culture met the wall in his own party? Is it a work accident? I ask because the Central Party, with which the Workers' Party sits in government, has programmed to escalate the amount limit and also to open up to include local teams and associations in the scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e322	This government is very concerned with good framework conditions for culture, sport and volunteering. It is this government that also delivers on the main demands of volunteering. The introduction of full VAT compensation – not just for 2022, but we are so eager to introduce it already for this year in the new era – is something that benefits teams and associations across the country. They get more to route with. It is not the case that winding-up of the gift-enhancing scheme results in 800 million. private crowns disappear. No, these guys are going to keep giving. What we're removing is the reinforcement that the government has so far given over the state budget. We believe that it is fundamentally unfair that the only criterion for receiving a sum of money from the state budget is that you are already good at attracting private money. This money, which we are now changing on the device of the gift enhancement scheme, is to be spent on culture, but they are to be distributed according to fairer criteria. Nor is it the case that the closure of the leisure card — or the lack of extension of the leisure card — is a signal that we do not want more recreational services available to children and young people. On the contrary, this government has a more accurate policy of giving children and young people opportunities for participation, for example: through new and extended search schemes – for which my colleague of children’s and family ministers is responsible – where municipalities can apply for money to cover the participation fee and the kind of things for children and young people in the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e331	Now the issue was the tax exemption. It came as a big surprise to a lot of people that the government now wants to halve that arrangement. In an article in Our Country, we write, among other things. The Cancer Association, the Norwegian Blind Federation, the Norwegian Sports Association and the Refugee Aid Act have acted well as an incentive to increase contributions from both individuals and businesses. In 2019, 870,000 donors received a deduction for gifts of over 4 billion. kr. The government's estimated saving of 100 million. kr annually may potentially mean more than 400 million. kr in lost gifts income, according to the voluntary nature. Freedom Norway writes on its website that they also want gifts to local teams and associations to be included, and that the border should be increased, but the government is going the opposite way. Does not the Minister of Culture get a little bad taste in his mouth when the government now cuts dramatically into two other schemes that stimulate private co-financing, to finance the one promise you make?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e340	It is not that we abolish the tax deduction for private gifts to non-governmental organisations. No, we're lowering the limit from $50,000 to $25,000. If we look at who benefits from that scheme, we can see quite clearly that the vast majority of those who give gifts to voluntary teams and associations stay well away from the 25 000-krona limit that we maintain in our budget. There will be tax credits up to NOK 25 000, but not up to NOK 50000, as the previous government had. But it will still be that most people who benefit from the scheme will continue to benefit from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e345	There will be follow-up questions – first take Pettersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e350	It is good to record that the concerns of humanitarian organisations have obviously not been addressed to the Offices of the Ministry of Culture. Back to the gift-enhancing scheme: the Solberg government established it in 2014 not only to stimulate donors, but also to stimulate institutions to contribute to private funding in addition to public funding. The scheme has contributed $2.6 billion. private finances so far, and more than 2 500 small and large measures across the country have received support. Some examples from my own county are Color Games, Hope Cathedral and Oslofjorden's Outdoor Council. I think 25 000 public kroner are a reasonable investment to get the private to contribute $100,000 in addition. Both the Museums Association and the Hospital clowns have warned against this in the election campaign. When the Minister of Culture now believes that this private money is a utilitarian, while at the same time they have promised that 1 pst. Of the state budget, which they can't properly define, will go to culture, I'll ask if the loss of these private millions, or more specifically billions, will be compensated in addition.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e359	I do not think the representative really knows well enough about the gift-enhancing system they themselves set up and how it works. So there is no evidence that the gift-enhancing scheme has contributed to more private giving money to culture. The only thing that has been done by the gift-enhancing system is that those who already receive private money are also doing so from the state. On the contrary, a lot of donors, whether they're private, businesses, individuals or foundations, say that the gift-enhancing system is not an incentive for them to give money to culture; they would do that anyway. It is not that the private money disappears by the gift-enhancing scheme being laid down. The 75 million. As the previous government this year spent on gift strengthening, we are going to apply to cultural services, but with a better social and geographical spread than the gift enhancement scheme provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e366	Kathy Lie – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e371	We agree that the gift-enhancing system is inappropriate and we agree that it should be phased out. It'll take 70 million. kr of the tickers. The share of the culture of the drugs has been distributed over time for an increasing number of purposes that have previously had or should have had fixed places on the state budget. For a long time, we have called for a clean-up of the cultural share of the toy, and that is what we believe will give more money to volunteering and a diverse cultural life. My question to the Minister of Culture is: will the Minister of Culture, in the context of the abolition of the gift-enhancing scheme, take the initiative to clean up the cultural share of the toys? And if so, does the Minister of Culture have a plan for when this can happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e378	I fully share the opinion of the representative that the previous right-wing government spent eight years using the tippers as a balance for the cultural budget. They pushed more and more projects and actions from the State budget into the funds. We strongly disagreed with that, because the tipping agents are to be distributed according to the key. When several measures, such as the gift-enhancing scheme, were pushed over to the tippers, it was eaten by cultural measures for municipalities, teams and associations all over the country. Now, when we wind up the gift-enhancing system, it's going to be distributed to the culture's share of the tipping funds, after a fair distribution. I can also promise the representative that it will now be over to balance the state budget by pushing action on the funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e385	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e390	This question is for the Minister of Agriculture. Until 1996, there was a dairy monopoly in Norway, where the giant Tine was in a special position. Former Minister of Agriculture Gunhild The eye of the Workers' Party took hold and tried to change this, opening up the dairy market to competition so that giant Tine could have competitors. This has been important both for Norwegian dairy farmers, for Norwegian dairy sectors and not least for the consumer. Tine has got competitors like Synnøve Finden, the Q-Meieriene and the Rørosmeieriet. But although 25 years have passed since the Norwegian authorities opened up competition in the dairy sector, very little has happened, and the giant Tine is still in a unique position. I would assume that the Central Party Minister of Agriculture is also concerned with better framework conditions for the dairy sector, increased production, increased further processing and increased competition, based on Norwegian milk in Norway, because it is important that there should be Norwegian milk in Norway, produced in Norway. Unfortunately, progress has been in the opposite direction. The Tine flag, for example: the production of jarlsbergost, which led to the overproduction of milk in Norway, and milk production was even cut by about 100 million litres, although actors like Synnove Finden wanted more milk. The Q-Meierien and the Rørosmeierien have lost the cargo support, and the Synnove Find has probably never had any cargo support. As the Q-Meierien recently said, this is simply a crisis, and the Q-Meierien say they can actually disappear. It's that serious. What will the Minister do to ensure better framework conditions, increased further processing of Norwegian milk in Norway and increased competition in the dairy sector – for the benefit of Norwegian agriculture and, of course, for the benefit of the consumer, for you and me and for ordinary people, to use government terminology?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e404	Thank you for the question. First of all, I would like to say that this government, and also the Central Party, is, of course, in favour of competition in the dairy sector. I would also like to take the opportunity to say that it was the previous red-green government that introduced the competition promotion measures for the dairy sector in 2007 within the price equalisation scheme. They've been working for 15 years, and that's good. We have now said in the Hurdal platform that we should evaluate this arrangement. Before we do that, of course, we need to get a good factual basis in the matter. We have already started the dialogue with the players, both with the industry itself, with industry and also with the chains. The Hurdal platform also says that we should gradually – let me stress gradually – phase out the competitive instruments in the price equalisation system. So I just want to reassure the representative that this government is concerned with Norwegian agriculture, and this government is delivering on Norwegian agriculture from day one. Over 1 billion. In this additional proposition, kr has gone to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. There is evidence of a government that wants to invest in Norwegian food production, which wants to protect the framework conditions in the industry, and which wants to protect cooperatives in order for us to have food production throughout the country, which is an important prerequisite for this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e415	Thanks for the answer. It was actually a little bit more positive than I expected. The Minister is clear that one will be investing in increased Norwegian milk production and that the focus on competition is firm. I am very pleased that the minister also specifically mentioned the conciliation from 2007, because it was very important. The intention was to strengthen competition in the dairy sector. I am also pleased that the Minister repeated several times that it should be a gradual – perhaps – phase-out. I had feared that it would happen faster, but the very best thing is that there is no phase-out of any competitive measures. I'm a little worried when the minister says the cooperatives are going to be stuck or lying in the ground. If we look at the giant Tine, I guess they had 10-12 billion. kr in turnover annually for some years back, and now they have passed 25 billion. kr. It's at that level, and the competitors are microscopic. Will the Minister in further work now look at the PU scheme and ensure that a sample can be set up in which the actors in the industry, such as the Q-Meieriene, Synnoserøve Finden and the Rørosmeierieriet, will be involved in the process of forming competitive measures and the framework conditions for the industry in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e426	It is nice that the representative is positively surprised by this government and that we want to bet on Norwegian agriculture. We are clear that we want a new course for Norwegian agricultural policy, but at the same time I would like to stress the importance that it is the cooperatives that are the foundations of how we have built the agricultural industry in this country. It is the cooperatives that are the basis for us to have food production throughout this country, for us to have milk production in Finnmark, and for us to have milk production in Agder. They're the basis for us just having food production in all of our wonderful country. I would just like to point out that, of course, I will have a dialogue with the industry in the future on how to optimise the instruments, including the promotion of competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e433	There will be follow-up questions – first Tor André Johnsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e438	I'm getting a little less positive after the second answer to the minister when she repeats the 'cooperatives' so many times. Having dialogue with industry actors is not the same as really taking them into a council or a selection to help them define the framework conditions and promotion of competition. I really wonder if the minister understands the importance of having more actors than just the cooperatives, which I know the Minister from the Central Party is very pleased with. Has she seen that it has been an advantage to have gained innovation and innovation in new products by having competitors for the giant Tine? And the Q-Meieriene, Synnove Find, the Tuberosmeieriet and external actors will be included in a sample that can really work for new rules, and maybe go through the PU scheme to look at the whole scheme, among other things. How does the milk price equalisation work – and not just take a meeting with the actors and listen to them, with a kind of informal dialogue, but be a little more formalized in a concrete selection?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e445	I would like to thank you for the opportunity to solve one of the most repeated errors in the PU system. The scheme is designed to collect the target price for milk and ensure equal milk prices for the farmer, regardless of what the milk is used for and where the milk producer is located. The PU scheme is self-financing today and a levy is paid for milk sold as drinking milk and a subsidy is granted for milk used for cheese, butter and dried milk. The Rørosmeieriet and the Q-Meierien are also important players in the market today, and they should remain so. I hear that the representative is very busy with a sample. I have now started in this role by inviting the actors to the conversation. Of course, they're going to be involved in the dialogue, and now we're going to have a good basis for fact. The Hurdal platform is clear where we want to use Norwegian agricultural policy, and it is in a completely different direction than the previous government wanted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e454	Terje Halleland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e459	There are positive signals from the Council of State to maintain the scheme. We know that there have been major challenges in the dairy sector. We've had Järlsbergost, which we've phased out the entire production of, which has led to a smaller need for milk in Norway. We got a coronary situation, which increased the need for domestic milk production. Then we need stable, good framework conditions. We need to maintain competition. I also understand at the Council of State that she wants to do so. Is it that way to understand that the actors active in the dairy sector today can trust that the conditions they have today are being maintained further in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e464	As I have seen, the promotion of competition has been effective for almost 15 years. It's time to take an evaluation of them. And as I've also been involved several times, we're going to get a good factual basis now and have good dialogue with the actors about all the competitive arrangements. Then we are clear on the Hurdals platform that we can gradually – and let me stress it – phase out the competitive instruments in the anti-price mechanism.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e469	Lene Westgaard-Halle – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e474	Now it was very pleasant here with a lot of agreement that things should not be cut overnight, things should be done gradually, and that the distribution grant should not suddenly be gone. There's just one problem with it: it's already been removed. It was removed on November 1st, so we have a month anniversary today for that removal. All the talk about dialogue and the provision of facts and the gradual adoption of this is very fine, but it is not about the distribution grant and what the main questioner asked questions about. It has already been removed, it is already a problem for the Q-Meierien, it is already a problem for Tine, but when I hear the Minister speaking now, it sounds as if this should be done gradually. So my question is, does this mean that, while the complaint is now being dealt with in the department, this phase-out is being suspended, and that we are actually going to have dialogue, we are going to gather the facts and do this gradually?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e480	I think it's important to have some facts, and not least to repeat the timeline in this case. The distribution grant was notified as early as February under the government of the representative. The decision in the Agriculture Directorate was also taken under the Westgaard-Halle government. Now there is a complaint on my table, so unfortunately I cannot comment on this matter in particular. But what I can say is that yesterday the department decided to grant Q-Meieriene the deferred implementation of the Agriculture Directorate's decision, and we have also done the same for the Rørosmeieriet, pending the examination of the complaint in the Directorate now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e485	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e490	It's tough times for ordinary people right now. Current prices are historically high, interest rates are rising, and the Labour Party–Center Party government is now providing for higher taxes on low pay across the country. Then it is particularly interesting to read the final protocol from the additional negotiations with agriculture, where it says: «At the same time, the parties point out that about 2/3 of agricultural incomes are market revenues and that the increase in market incomes must also contribute to the formation of income.» If we're going to translate it into Norwegian, it means increasing food prices for ordinary people. After eight years of right-wing government, we can read on the Central Party website that Norway is close to having the cheapest food in terms of income. Does this mean that the government is adding up to increased food prices for ordinary people in the coming years?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e504	First of all, I want to say that it's not the government that decides the food prices, it's the market. And then we see a challenging situation around power prices and in other areas that are serious for industry as well. The representative mentions the additional negotiations, on which this government actually delivered from day one, just to compensate the farmers for the extra costs they have incurred for fertilisers and other challenges — from day one. We have also said – if you read on in the Minutes – that we will come back with compensatory measures on electricity and fertilisers also in the agricultural negotiations we are going to start in the spring. In the case of food prices, on which the representative is involved, two thirds of the income comes to the farmer from the market. Here again, I would like to say that the whole industry has a responsibility; the farmer has a responsibility, the industry has a responsibility, and not least the food chains have a responsibility for the increased costs of the farmers. So a more even distribution is something that this government is concerned about, and that we've also fixed on the Hurdal platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e511	I do not feel quite that I got an answer to the question, so I try to get a little different twist. The centre party claims on its websites that we have almost the cheapest food in the world – to the extent that an interesting claim is that Norwegian food prices are among the highest in Europe for several food groups. For example, the price level for the groups was 74, 67 and 58 pst. above the EU average. Norwegian meat prices totaled 55 pst. above the EU average. Does the Council of State believe that it is right for Norwegian food prices to be increased?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e516	First, I want to say that you can ask questions in a lot of ways, but I can also answer questions in a different way than the representative. We in Norway use 11 pst. of our income on food — it is actually one of the lowest in Europe. At the same time, industry as a whole is experiencing increased costs, and there will necessarily have to be an increase in prices in the future. However, through this compensation, the State will also contribute to the fact that the entire increase in costs must not be taken into account in the market, and that is a very important clarification from this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e521	There will be follow-up questions – Lene Westgaard-Halle.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e526	I understand that I am not getting an answer to the question. The farmers' incomes will increase, where I think maybe the Council of State and I agree, and there's a lot of good work that can be done. For the time being, the government's interest in the market is quite absent, but we in the Right are of course very happy to be able to help the government a little bit on the way. New, innovative and technological solutions have emerged in recent years and have flourished precisely in agriculture. Smart agriculture and agro-technologies are creating increased market incomes through more modern, climate-friendly and technological agriculture. The consulting company McKinsey believes that the digitisation of agriculture can trigger more than $500 billion in GDP by 2030. So the income and export potential is enormous. On the right, the contribution of the agritech industry to export income will be doubled by 2030. The Hurdal platform, on the other hand, does not mention Agritech with a single word – not one. Will the Council of States support Right-wing initiatives to achieve the 2030 agritech target?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e535	I can reassure the representative that I was at the Agrotechnic fair at Lillestrøm this weekend. Incredibly much good happens in the industry. Unlike the previous government, this government has been busy filling the toolbox to the industry with tools to help them take part in the transition. We're delivering on that now. We're creating Bionova, which is going to be an instrument for agriculture. This government is concerned with agriculture and also with the technological developments that exist out there. Then we have to bring forward such measures, and then the state has to contribute resources. That's what this government is doing. It didn't do the last government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e542	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e556	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this section. The changes were as follows: Question 5, from the representative Bengt Rune Strifeldt to the Minister for Fisheries and the Sea, will be taken up by the representative of Terje Halleland. Question 9, from the representative Sofie Marhaug to the Minister for Climate and Environment, has been withdrawn. Question 11, from the representative Turid Kristensen to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, has been withdrawn. Questions 13, 14 and 15 from the representatives of Mudasar Kapur, André N. Skkelstad and Tore Vamraak, respectively, to the Minister for Local and District Affairs, must be postponed to the next Question Time, as the Council of State has a disease incident. Question 16, from the representative of Tobias Drevland Lund to the Minister for Local and District Affairs, has been withdrawn. Question 20, from the representative Alfred Jens Bjørlo to the Minister for Economic Affairs, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e578	I suspect that I know the answer to this question already, but I thought that the council would get some brilliance, so I still ask: «When can we expect the government to reverse unsocial cuts in the children's allowance for disabled persons and children's spectacles, as the Workers' Party and the Centre undertake to do in a short time in the election campaign?»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e585	This has been clarified in the budgetary negotiations between the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV, so it is, of course, only for the Stortinge to deal with it here in plenary.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e590	Thank you for the answer from the Council of State. Last time I was here, I compared the Workers' Party to the insect in Franz Kafka's «Transformation». It was a little rude, perhaps, but I'm glad that the Workers' Party has got back on its feet, to say it that way. Once I have the Council of State here, however, I will use the opportunity to ask questions about what will happen on 1 January, when the arrangements adopted for improving the day-to-day arrangements expire. That Prime Minister was very clear here in Stortinget yesterday, was that the pandemic and the crisis are not over. There is the question of the pandemic and the crisis to be faced with the unemployed from 1 January, as we can – unfortunately – expect that thousands of thousands will fall out of the daily allowance scheme every month.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e597	I have to say that there has to be a certain connection between the original question and the follow-up question – it is up to the President to decide as well. But at least I can assure the representative Kristjánsson that we are following the situation on the labour market and close to the pandemic, and will of course be busy ensuring that we have the arrangements that are needed, under the circumstances that may be.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e602	Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e610	‘The Government’s Hurdal Platform confirms that the pension system must be sustainable and stimulate participation. Now the government warns to withdraw the Solberg government's proposal to raise the age limit in the state from 70 to 72 years. Today's 70-year-olds aren't the same as 40 years ago, we're fresher and we're living longer. Several government employees want to work longer than the law opens up for today. On what basis does the Council of State consider that it stimulates participation when the government does not want to raise the age limit for employment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e617	The average take-off age in the country is less than 65 years. There are few people who work until they are 70 years old. Therefore, it is much more important that we facilitate more people working through the 60s than we increase the age limit. This government believes there is reason to stress that both the employment selection and a large majority of hearing authorities disagreed in the proposal to increase the age limit to 72. I have to remind you that it was Right who put down this employment selection, and here I think they should listen to the recommendations of the selection. This government attaches particular importance to the fact that many public hearing bodies on both employers and employees' sides believe that a 70-year age limit must be maintained in order to avoid unworthy and conflict-filled departures from the labour market. It will be a great impression to experience that a person is being pushed out of work or is getting a job taken away at the end of his professional life. A fixed age limit of 70 is a clean way to avoid it. The changes in the pension system in recent years have contributed to more people wanting to stay longer in work, and that is very good. But we also need a working life where more people are able to do more work. This government will look at other measures than increasing the age limit for this, such as both the employment selection and several hearing aids. As the rules are today, it's quite possible for statesmen to work all the way until they're 75 years old, when the employer and the employee are a few about it. There may be a reason to consider whether this option in age limits can be used more often. Several hearing bodies at least pointed out that the possibilities for working with retirement pay should be extended. It is quite right, as the representative Molberg says, that today's 70-year-olds are not the same as they were 40 years ago. Fortunately, people are healthier, they live longer, and many will probably also want to participate more in the workplace. The government wants to make arrangements for this. But I think an increase in the age limit today will contribute little to that. When we see at the same time a danger of unwanted effects of such an increase, we think it's not right to do this now. A little in time, we might see that a lot more people are working towards 70 years, and then it might be time to look at the age limit again.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e632	I thank you for the answer from the Council of State. The right is on the line of employees in this case, and if we look at the hearing bodies that gave answers, it was individuals who dominated among those who wanted a higher age limit. Then we think it is important to listen to them, because an important line in the pension agreement was that the system should be set up so that it would pay off just to stay longer in work. We know that there will be fewer and fewer people working per pensioner. We also know that the expenditure on pensions will increase for every year that goes, and we need to facilitate increased participation. This is one of the reasons why the Solberg government proposed to increase the age limit from 70 to 72 years in the country as well. Another important reason was to strengthen the job protection of the seniors, so that those who want to do so can stand longer in the job. The councils were in on it. But can you put it into practice a little bit more, Councillor? How will the government include more seniors in working life when you are unwilling to change at the age limit?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e641	The President recalls that the questions should be asked by the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e646	The representative is quite right that there were also individuals who participated in the hearing, but I have to show that quite a few of the organisations, which represent a wide range of employees, are concerned that not only does one increase the age limit in the state, but one also has proper processes with the social partners when it comes to such changes. It didn't care about the previous government. When the reality is that the average retirement age in the country is less than 65 years old, we have to make it easier to stay longer in work — and then use other tools. There are several suggestions from the employment selection, which have also been supported by the hearing authorities, which I would like to see more closely, for example. to increase the use of the facilities already available in the age-limits for extended recruitment ratios up to 75 years, and to assess the extension of the possibilities for working with pensioners.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e653	Right does not want anyone to go out on a date in working life against their will. The Solberg Government therefore amended the general age limit in the Working Environment Act in 2015. It was then raised from 70 to 72 years of age, but is not known for workers in the country. Now that the government has withdrawn the proposal to extend this age limit for employees in the country, can we expect that the government will also change the age limit in the Working Environment Act back to 70 years, or will we have two different age limits in private and state employment?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e660	I have no other changes of such a character to notify now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e668	‘Does the government intend to follow the promise of the Hurdal platform and return to Nesna as a fully higher education institution?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e673	It is with great pleasure that I can inform the representative Nyholt that from the fall of 2022 it is going to be a recording of the teacher and nursery education at Nesna. With this, the government shows in practice how we think, that we follow up the Hurdal platform, and – perhaps more importantly – that we put action behind words and support the fight for a training offer at Nesna, a training offer for which there is a great need, both in Helgeland and in Northern Norway. So to the solution itself: we have asked Nord University to offer teaching in teacher and kindergarten education at Nesna already in the autumn of 2022. That is, it will be part of the Coordinate Recording now in winter and part of the call coming on 1 February. There has been a constructive dialogue between the department and the Nordic University, and the university has taken positive action and accepted it. There are still some formalities, including: the Board of Directors of Nord University shall follow up the framework for this next week and determine the necessary changes to the study portfolio, which will then be notified. It has been very important for the government that we ensure a good offer for teacher and kindergarten teacher training at Nesna for the whole region and region. This is step one. There is an enormous need for qualified teachers in the region, and that is why it is an important priority for us. Then we will work further – together with other actors, such as the municipality, the county council and the business community – on what other opportunities and functions are offered and that can be added to Nesna. It will be important for the future development of the holy region. In addition, the Hurdal Platform has announced that the Nesna University Centre can become a national centre for decentralised education and research and, through it, have an important role to play in developing district-based higher education and research across the country. This is a work that I look forward to starting up, in close cooperation with key actors both in Bodø and in Helgeland.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e686	I thank you for your answer. I just want to refer to the Finance Minister Vedum's statement on October 12, where he says in a leak to the Evening Post: ‘Seventh and last, higher education is a public responsibility. Nord universitet does not have the responsibility to re-establish higher education at Nesna. We believe that the previous government should stop the decision." It's a change of pace. That's a change, and that's what worries people on the Helgeland coast. As an independent higher education institution, Nesna was almost 100 years old. At North University, it didn't take many years for Nesna to quit. Does the Council of State see that the return to North University is causing concern and concern for the population?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e696	No, on the contrary. I believe that this is very good news for the government, for Helgeland, for Nordland and for Bodø. In six weeks we have been able to facilitate the creation of a hugely important education provision in North Norway that produces education that is very much in need, both on the kindergarten side and on the teacher side. We need not only the offer, but also the quality of it. We are already getting started in the autumn, and we are further warning quite ambitious plans for what this is going to be in addition to teacher and kindergarten teacher training. All in all, I believe that this is a very good solution that has been delivered quickly, and there is good reason to be satisfied with what is presented here.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e703	The head of the people's reaction, Jenny Myklebust, says in a statement that some have to train common teachers and nurses to the districts, otherwise the districts of people and youth are lost. Education institutions in the districts are one of the most important steps to counter centralisation, and that's what the government opted for. I hear from the Council of State that he confirms this. Is it so to understand that there is a kind of guarantee for both the trade union community and the population of Northern and Helgeland coasts that Nesna is not just going to be a kind of bluff and put down again?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e710	Point one: I think that's exactly what we're doing now. Now there will be a higher education offer within the two training courses mentioned above. They are opened to applicants in winter and established from the next harvest. It's very good, and we know that to offer these disciplines across the country, it's a prerequisite to have educational facilities where people live and work. Nesna will not become a blaff; Nesna will now have a new chance to establish itself as a fully-fledged higher education institution in line with many, many others in the Kingdom of Norway. I look forward to following up both what's going to happen there this fall, and what we have ambitions that will happen in the years to come. This is going to be a very, very good story.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e718	My question goes to the Minister for Fisheries and the Sea: ‘The chassis will blast out parts of the underwater wall at the Oscarsborg fortress to establish a new fairway for large ships west of the island of Håoya at Drøbak. In view of the negative consequences of the action, will the Council of State consider the cessation of planning work for life in fjords, protected areas, open air life, war memories and cultural memory?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e728	The representative, Ola Elvestuen, points out that the Coast Guard will blow out parts of the underwater wall at the Oscarsborg fortress, often referred to as the Sheteneen, to establish a new fairway for large ships west of the island of Håøya at Drøbak. I would first like to stress that the Coastal Administration is assessing and investigating a wide range of measures to increase safety and improve the availability of maritime transport along our coast. All these measures are far from being carried out under assessment and investigation. If the studies show that the costs and adverse effects of a measure are greater than the benefits, no priority will be given. The action to which the representative of Elvesuen refers is in an early planning and investigation phase. At the start of the plan, the relevant public bodies and other interested parties were notified. A document describing the possible action, the area concerned, the natural and cultural values of the area and the further investigation process have normally been prepared. The aim of the measure will be to increase the likelihood of occurrence and reduce the likelihood of accidents in the waters. The main trail past Drøbak goes east of Kaholmen with the Oscarsborg fortress. The area has many narrow passengers, a lot of recreational boat traffic and a relatively large amount of commercial traffic. In order to reduce the queue and waiting time for vessels in Drøbaksundet and to prevent navigational accidents, an alternative link west of Haåya was investigated. In addition to socio-economic analysis, some local studies have been carried out by the Coastal Agency and the project is now in the pre-project and planning phase. The Coastal Administration is planning to start the regulatory work with the corresponding impact assessment in 2022. This planning process shall ensure the involvement and early involvement of the relevant authorities and stakeholders. Further work on investigation and planning will assess the potential positive and negative consequences of implementing the measure. This includes the monitoring of impacts on nature and the environment, outdoor life, war memories and cultural memory protection. Only after a comprehensive impact assessment has been carried out will the Swedish Coast Guard Agency be able to assess whether the action should be planned further and, if appropriate, whether it should be implemented. Implementation of the measure as it is currently outlined will involve intervention in the shed at the Oscarsborg fastening. This is a cultural memory that is protected by regulation, and intervention therefore requires exemption from the Riksantikvaren. In other words, the Riksantikvar will make an own assessment of the impact of the action on war memories and cultural memory protection before it can possibly be implemented. I trust that the further planning and investigation work will provide a sound professional basis for assessing whether the action should be implemented or not. On this basis, I do not want to interfere with or stop the plan work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e747	It is, as the Council of State says, so that a new fairway west of the island of Hawaii will involve an explosion of 140 meters of the peaced sheath. It worked the one time it needed to work, in 1940. There is also a conservation area for lobsters today that will be affected. Further explosions will have to be carried out in order to have a fairway for large vessels, and there are several nature reserves that will be affected, both on the island and inwards. There is an area of great open-air activity and a lot of boating as it is today, and there is no doubt in my view that the implementation of this will have major negative natural effects. After all, we have just received a comprehensive action plan for Oslofjorden. Then my question becomes: Is a time-consuming and cost-intensive planning process necessary, and should it not be stopped now?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e752	First, I would just like to point out that the measure in question is mentioned in the knowledge base of the National Transport Plan 2022-2033, more specifically in the Coastal Agency’s response to mission 9, on priorities. This means that planning of the action was also known for the previous government, without having the consequences that are now being demanded from the Stockholm pulpit. Maritime transport is an efficient and safe mode of transport, with low greenhouse gas emissions and small negative impacts on natural diversity and the environment compared to other modes of transport. Maritime transport is also important to provide freight transport to and from the business world around Oslofjord. Assessing measures to improve the accessibility and safety of maritime transport is part of the Coastal Agency’s societal mission. As regards the action at Oscarsborg, the assessment of the impact of the action on nature and the environment is an important part of the further investigation work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e761	It is true that it lies in the national transport plan, but the previous government also presented a comprehensive action plan for Oslofjord, a fjord that is in very poor condition. NIVA also produced a report where they have looked at whether the degradation of the sheath will result in better oxygen conditions in the fjord, and it turns out in the latest report that it will not. This means that for life in the fjord only negative effects will exist. There are also other alternatives if something happens in Drøbaksundet, you can have better cooperation with the Drammen port, with Borg, with Moss, with Horten, or all the way down to Grenland, so there are alternatives if anything happens. My last question will then be: Will the Council of State, in its assessment, place greater emphasis on nature values and negative conditions for outdoor life than on socio-economic analyses?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e766	As regards the action at Oscarsborg, the assessment of impacts on nature and the environment is an important part of the further investigation work. This includes, of course, consequences for lobsters, spawning grounds for fish and for the other marine environment. I am absolutely sure that the further investigations will give a good picture of the possible impact on the marine life of the possible implementation of measures. These consequences will be duly taken into account both in the Coastal Administration's assessments and in my assessments of whether the matter should be brought back to my table.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e774	This question, from the representative Bengt Rune Strifeldt to the Minister for Fisheries and the Sea, will be raised by the representative of Terje Halleland.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e779	‘A press release from the Ministry of Industry states that the government strengthens the subsidy scheme for employment of seafarers by increasing the maximum level to NOK 220000 per employed person. However, in 2019, almost three years ago, the maximum level of the grant scheme was NOK 216 000. Isn't it a little hard to claim that the government has ‘strengthened’ the grant scheme, popularly called the net pay scheme, when it is, in reality, barely restated?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e786	Maritime nutrition is an important cornerstone of many Norwegian communities and contributes to value creation and jobs throughout the country. Access to Norwegian seafarers and Norwegian maritime competence is an important prerequisite for competitiveness throughout the industry. The subsidy scheme for employment of seafarers shall contribute to the maintenance of Norwegian maritime competence and the recruitment of Norwegian seafarers. The scheme is one of our most important maritime policy instruments. The Government of Solberg, the guarantor of which was the Advance Party, proposed in Prop. 1 S to introduce a maximum of DKK 189 000 for six of the grant models in the scheme. It was also proposed to terminate the model grant for NIS cargo ships. This meant a cut in the scheme of 407 million. NOK 2022. Strengthening the scheme has been an important priority for this government. We have proposed to continue the grant model for NIS cargo ships, which had been proposed, and to increase the maximum from NOK 189 000 to NOK 220 000 per employed in all grant models, with the exception of the overall NIS grant model, where we propose to continue the ceiling of 26 pst. In the supplementary proposal, we have proposed to increase the allocation to the scheme by 227 million. Compared with the draft budget underpinned by Prop. 1 S. We have proposed a grant to grant schemes for employment of 2,2 billion seafarers. NOK 2022. Grant schemes are governed and rights-based, and payments from the schemes depend on the number of seafarers and their salary levels. Under the grant schemes, companies may apply for grants on the basis of tax advances paid, social security contributions and employers' contributions for eligible crew. In 2021, two of the subsidy models, petroleum ships in NOR and NIS construction ships, were limited by a maximum of NOK 21000 per person employed for two semesters. We have now proposed increasing the maximum to 220,000 kroner per person employed. It reinforces these two models. The introduction of a maximum ceiling will primarily have an impact on seafarers with the highest wage. A maximum of 220000 kroner will cut off the premiums of shipping companies for seafarers with a salary of more than 600000 kroner. The shipping companies will still be able to compensate up to NOK 220000 per person employed. This is a significant amount that will help to facilitate Norwegian shipping companies to select Norwegian seafarers on Norwegian ships. The Hurdal platform shows that the government has an ambition to strengthen the net pay scheme. Increasing the maximum level of the grant scheme is one step towards meeting the ambition.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e807	If a person starts from what the Solberg government has presented, it's not strange and it's not hard to call things for a reinforcement. The Solberg government failed maritime nourishment immediately after the Progress Party left the government. But I can't see that that's the starting point the government takes, when a writer on the platform writes that one should strengthen the scheme, when the Workers' Party presents its programme to strengthen the scheme, and when the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party write and are clear that they are going to remove the roof. The centre party at Geir Pollestad challenged even the Advance Party that they should not be a cat in the negotiations with the Workers' Party. Is it the Workers' Party that is the brake on good business arrangements?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e812	I repeat: in the Hurdal platform, we are clear that the net pay system should be strengthened, and we have taken a first step. We've been dealing with the budget of the Solberg government. There, a cut of 407 million was proposed. kr. We've strengthened the system. We have increased the maximum from 189 000 to 220 000 kroner and continued the model grant for NIS cargo ships. We've increased the budget for the 227 million scheme. kr and proposed a budget of SEK 2,2 billion. kr. The government and SV had to find room for a number of bets to rectify after the eight years of the Progress Party had been responsible. The municipalities have been given 2.5 billion. kr more, there will be holiday pay for the period, the hospitals will be strengthened, the spectacle support will be back, the maximum price in the kindergarten will be reduced. Reforms on SFO and dental health are in progress, and people with normal and low incomes have to pay less taxes. None of this would have been possible if the Progress Party still had influence over the State budget. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e825	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e830	Unfortunately, it does not help Norwegian seafarers to get better arrangements for glasses for children on the mainland. I think, and I'm going to say, that the Council of State really genuinely wants good arrangements for the industry, so I hope that one can put this in place and give an indication of where one wants to get in the longer term. But I want to remind the Council of State that there is a significantly better arrangement today than what the government is now putting up with. The coastal areas go out and are genuinely concerned about the situation. They believe that the government does not take responsibility, they believe that this will weaken the short sea shipping, which will weaken the status of the Norwegian seafarer. So my question goes back to this: does the Workers' Party see these challenges? Have they completely forgotten the election campaign and the promises they made?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e837	We see the challenges, and we work on a broad basis to deal with them and meet them. The net pay scheme is one element. I have explained it quite forcefully through this change of words. The second is that in a few weeks we have taken seven-mile steps in a job that was completely silent under the previous government. While it took eight years to bring down a sample that might lead to Norwegian wage and working conditions in Norwegian waters and on Norwegian soil, legal work is now under way. I think that is also a clear statement that this government is not just talking about words, it is about action. We're still going to take care of the complete maritime value chain that Norway is the only country in the world to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e845	‘The Council of State said in oral Question Time on 24 November that renewable energy and climate adaptation funds were ‘neglected through the previous government’ and that it ‘reduced significantly the efforts of renewable energy, leading to a significant need for renegotiation of agreements already concluded and a reduction in aid to several partners’. How can these be referred to as ‘negligence’?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e852	The question asked by the representative of Mr Schou is, in fact, two questions. The first question concerns my claim that the previous government's commitment to climate change adaptation and renewable energy was not strong enough, and the second concerns the renegotiation of agreements. I'll treat them separately. Climate change is not a theoretical scale. In southern Africa, millions of small farmers have been destroyed by drought or storm. This is one of the main reasons why more and more people are falling into starvation and poverty, and that the hope of achieving sustainability goals may be in the process of missing. Under the Paris Agreement, we have committed ourselves to working towards a balance between bet and climate change adaptation and emission reductions. When the Paris Agreement was adopted in 2015, 20 p.m. went. of the Norwegian climate input for adaptation, and four years later: 16 pst. It's true that something improved in 2020, but this government has promised to triple support for climate change adaptation over the next four years. So the same picture is in terms of renewable energy investment, which is a necessary prerequisite for both cutting emissions and creating jobs. In the last budget of the Stoltenberg government, the renewable energy item was 1.3 billion. kr. In 2021, the renewable investment was down to 774 million. kr. So to the question of renegotiation of agreements: the representatives of Solberg and Schou went a long way in accusing the government of breaking agreements after we – in order to clear up all the necessary funds for climate change adaptation and renewable energy – had to reduce the planned support for the Global Fund for Education. It is not possible to break an agreement that has not been concluded, but I remember that the Solberg administration had to renegotiate contracts and reduce the promised aid on several occasions, among others. to the energy project SASEC in Nepal in 2016 and to projects under the auspices of UNICEF and UNDP in the same country in 2014. It's not new that a new government means new priorities, but we're thus maintaining the goal of the previous government for a doubling of the education effort since 2013, and we're proposing to increase the overall aid budget by 3 billion. kr from 2021 to 2022. And we're strengthening renewable energy and climate change adaptation, because we think we can't eradicate poverty by 2030 if we don't.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e865	I notice that the Council of State is modernizing its statements and at the same time is trying to defend the commitment to education, which is proven to have a cut of 1.2 billion between four and five years in the future. NOK 662 million. kr in the budget for the following year. Governments inherited a budget with significant efforts for climate adaptation and renewable energy from the government of Solberg. When the Council of State took over, it was set at 8.2 billion. kr to climate action on the aid budget, an increase of nearly 2 billion. NOK 2021. In addition, we added that Norfund put off 1 billion. kr from its equity to the climate investment fund, and through our increases Norway was on track to double the climate aid by 2025. Does the Council of State insist that our government has neglected this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e872	I have not modified my claims, and I think it is in place when one is charged with breaking agreements, to clarify that this agreement it is referred to, i.e. to the GPE, was not an agreement, that we are continuing the promise of the previous government to double the training aid compared to the 2013 level. I would also like to make it clear that the considerable investment in climate finance, including climate adaptation funds, is a formidable increase in relation to the efforts of the previous government. And so there is no denying that the previous government cut significant renewable energy resources, which led to challenges for already concluded agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e879	I understand that the Council of State will try to correct the impression of cutting education, while we are going to talk about climate adaptation. But it is true that while the Council of State last spoke about legal agreements, this is about moral agreements – through many governments, over the years – where Norway lies as a predictable partner. It weakens this government. On 12 April this year, the government of Solberg presented its own strategy for climate adaptation and food security. This was a direct follow-up to the UN Sustainable Development Goals and the Paris Agreement, which our government agreed to negotiate and sign. Our government also got Norway into the UN Security Council for the period 2021–2022, and then Prime Minister Solberg used his first post in the Security Council to highlight climate as an independent security issue. Have these measures not been taken by the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e886	I have to repeat, as far as the moral obligation versus legal obligations, to which Schou refers, and where I also experienced in this Chamber being accused of weakening Norway's reputation internationally because of a lack of credibility: here it is a matter of an unaccompanied agreement, i.e. not a legal obligation towards the GPE, versus the actual legal renegotiations that had to be made under the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e894	‘In the setting of a long-term defence sector plan, see: Prop. 14S criticises the central party of the government of Solberg for the progress in the acquisition of new tanks and points out that the investment is urgent. [[2020-2021]] On 15 May 2018, the current member of the Central Party Foreign Committee stated to the Defence Forum that the situation was so ‘bad’ that she ‘nearly did not find words’. Will the government require the acquisition of new tanks in relation to the timetable set by the current long-term plan, i.e. the phase-in of new tanks from 2025?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e901	At Stortingen's treatment of Innst. 50 S for 2017-2018 to Prop. 2 S for 2017-2018, Landmaktpropositionen, it was decided that the Army should have a modern tank capacity. The timing of the phase-in was, as the representative says, estimated to be the earliest from 2025. This timetable was then continued by the government of Solberg upon presentation of the long-term plan. The centre party has always been concerned about the possibility of acquiring tanks earlier than the Solberg government provided, but in dealing with the long-term plan, there was no majority in the Stortingen for it. The project is now in the middle of the commercial process to start with the acquisition of new tanks. These are processes where I acknowledge that we as a customer have to do a thorough job to get the best option. There are many aspects that need to be put in place and clarified before we have received the first tanks for the Army. And even though much of the room for action for any maintenance of acquisition was effectively closed in connection with Solberg's government's work on the long-term plan, we will nevertheless look again at the schedule of acquisition and actively look for ways to provide it. The government will therefore come back to Stortinget with information on this, preferably during the spring session 2022.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e910	It is true that the majority, when dealing with the long-term plan, is starting the phase-in from 2025, but now there is another majority in the Grand Duchy, and that majority should, of course, use the possibilities that the same majority thought existed a year ago. If you look up in the VG on 14 November 2020, the then Depositary Representative Liv Signe Navarsete and party leader Battle Violence Vedum says that you have to start acquiring tanks now – almost at all. Why was what was “fastest” last year, turned into 2025 when you were so clear on this last year – so there are seven years in difference. What has changed from the central party's position in the scarce year?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e917	One thing that has changed is that it's been one year without the previous government doing what the Center Party in 2020 thought was necessary. It takes some time to deliver tanks, and the closer you get to 2025 before it gets started, the harder it is to reach that deadline. Then the previous government had done what the Center Party asked for, and started the project with the purchase in 2020, the possibility of insurance had been greater than it is now. My main answer was that the government – despite the fact that it has now been a year, and despite the fact that we have come closer to 2025 – will look at the possibility of delayed acquisition and, as I said, come back to Stortinget in an appropriate way in spring 2022 with possible possibilities for a forced delivery of tanks.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e924	The previous government also looked at the possibility of providing for the acquisition of tanks, inter alia. by leasing tanks from our allies. That possibility did not then exist. Is there an opportunity that the minister now sees may have appeared again? And once again, it's still some years until 2025, and the Council of State is sitting on the money bag: why isn't the Council of State willing to provide it closer than 2025, when he now has the political power and this was so simple a year ago?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e929	This is not primarily an economic question. There are issues about the delivery time and construction time of fighting vehicles — in addition to the process we are going through with the commercial acquisition. It should be understood that for every year that goes without this being implemented, it becomes more difficult and difficult to provide for the 2025 schedule that was in the original. Despite that, the government will do what we can to get it done. We believe it is important to have the tanks phased in as early as possible. I also hear that the representative of the Rivers is concerned about this, and it is commendable that the Right has also come to the realization that we should try to get this to before 2025, which was the basis of the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e939	‘In 2018, the largest asked that zero emissions be introduced into the World Heritage fjords from 2026. In Decision 691, the Stortinget government asked for measures to secure these fjords as port of call for cruise boats after 2026, inter alia by ensuring the establishment of shore-side electricity in Flanders as planned by 2022. [[2020-2021]] Can the Council of State provide information on the time when the government makes proposals for measures as requested, including ensuring the establishment of shore-side electricity?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e946	This is a matter I know well from the work in Stortinget in the previous period. As the representative Grotle recalls, it was, in fact, a unanimous increase which, in 2018, took the following decision: ‘The Government is asked to introduce zero emission requirements from tourism ships and ferries in the World Heritage fjords as soon as it is technically feasible and no later than 2026.’ [[...]] So the big idea was that this would happen as soon as possible, and no later than 2026. A few years after this, the Stortinget also decided that the State should contribute to this. by establishing shore-side electricity in Flåm by 2022. This case illustrates in a very good way how the interaction between the country and economic operators should be in the major climate change that Norway is now going through in all fields, including in the maritime sector. Here it is both to make demands and to make demands. Firstly, we know that clear demands drive technology development. Clear demands contribute to the best success of the most forward-looking economic operators. It's actually going to be worth taking the lead in the green shift. It's simply incredibly exciting, what's now happening in the maritime sector, where the development of alternative propulsion solutions goes at a speed even an optimist that I had hardly dared to hope for a few years ago. The most exciting of all is that our own shipyard industry and Norwegian shipowners are well placed to play a key role in this. This has been expressed very well by the representative Grotle himself in an interview with Fjordene's Official Journal this summer, where he says that the region must be: ‘in full when applicable to the conversion to green industries, green shipping and climate change’. I could not agree more. The second role that the State has is to make the green shift easier by providing infrastructure and good solutions, for each actor cannot be expected to build the entire value chain itself. Cooperation and coordination must take place. The government is concerned with reducing local pollution by facilitating shore-side power for cruise boats at the most trafficked ports and in the long term imposing a ban on heavy oil. This is a very central part of our work on how to achieve the goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 55 pst. towards 2030. Through Enova, the government contributes to the establishment of total shore-side power plants from fishing ports, offshore bases and industrial facilities to coastal and cruise ports. Enova’s objective with the aid is to bring about a lasting market change that will allow the market to gradually develop and use shore-side electricity. Enova has so far supported six shore-based power plants for cruise ships, including: in Flåm. Altogether, the facilities in Ålesund, Bergen, Haugesund, Flåm, Nordfjordeid and Tromsø have received about 160 million. kr i support. The Ministry has received many views and party statements relating to the further follow-up to the request decisions of the Stortinget. I want us to have a good professional basis to ensure a solid local anchoring. The government is fully evaluating how we will take this further, and will come back to Stortinget in an appropriate way once we have concluded in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e973	It is safe to right that the Council of State knows the challenges in Flåm and that he reads the Official Journal of Fjordnes. The Flemish economy depends on cruise traffic, and this is a long-term industry. Around the country our ports are now accepting cabin settings both for 2025 and for 2026. In Flåm, on the other hand, there's almost no one ordering space in 2025, and in 2026, the number is just zero. In reality, this local business environment is at an all-time low, and there is growing concern about the situation. Local governments are ready to establish shore-side electricity while they are still waiting for the follow-up. Will the government sit down with the municipalities to agree to implement solutions, and what time will this happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e980	I can confirm that we want to sit down with local stakeholders and discuss how this can be resolved, because here we need to achieve two important goals. We will implement the necessary climate change and develop technologies that can be gradually produced in Norway, so that this will also be a business opportunity. At the same time, we will ensure that business continues, and that it will be possible to accept tourists in Flanders in the future as well. I think that we should all take on board ourselves – back to this by making demands and making demands: the state must set requirements that drive technology development, but the state must also ensure that it is as easy as possible to actually deliver on the requirements that have been set and that answers to these demands are developed. Therefore, I think it is important that we do not create uncertainty as to whether the requirements are still in place, but perhaps rather step up efforts to succeed in implementing them, including in Flaem.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e985	If you want to secure land flow in Flåm from 2022, the government has a bad time. As far as I can see, there are no funds for the action in the State budget. My questions are: does the government have room for action in other budget lines? Did the government come back to Stortinget with this question?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e990	In the case of the land flow itself, which I was so far inside in my first post, it becomes Enova who is exercising that support. It's a fund, so this is not a decision that the government or the Stortinget make in individual matters. But as I have been informed, there has already been an early allocation, and we will follow up. The aim is to succeed in what is the intention, among other things. in Flåm – like in Nordfjordeid, Haugesund, Bergen, Ålesund and Tromsø – this should be done. I would like to follow up that it is actually delivered on and happening.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e1002	This question has been drawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e1011	‘The most important work to create more foster homes is the recruitment and follow-up of homes. When the government parties in the Children's Protection Act and the Hurdals platform refused to use private, and in many respects also ideal, a lot of competence and capacity is lost. This pointed out several hearings when the Child Protection Act was being dealt with before the summer. How can the Council of State say that she is working to improve recruitment while at the same time giving priority to many of those who are most likely to recruit and follow up foster families?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e1018	Thank you for the question. The work of recruiting foster homes is something that I give priority to. The government is working in a number of areas to increase access to foster homes. An important step is to strengthen the quality of foster home work in municipalities in order to provide secure frameworks around foster homes. I would like to stress that today – and with the new Children's Protection Act – private actors will be able to recruit foster homes for the municipalities. It was also the basis of the proposal for a new Children's Protection Act, Prop. 133 L for 2020-2021, and it was actually the government of Solberg that proposed to legislate that child protection services would not be able to enter into agreements with private services on the evidence and content of the fosterheim mission. That proposal didn't get multiple numbers in Stortinget. The majority of the committee indicated that such a rule would result in private ideals and commercials not being able to participate in the same way as previously in recruitment, and that there was therefore a risk of weakening the conception of foster homes. Then the childcare services in the care communities are responsible for following up children. The follow-up responsibility involves taking action and making changes that are necessary in order for the children to have the best possible care in the foster home. Although it is allowed for municipalities to receive assistance from private service providers in the follow-up of foster homes, it is therefore not possible to leave all responsibility to private individuals. If municipalities want assistance from a private provider in the follow-up of foster homes, the municipality must have active control over the private operator. In the light of what I have said, the municipalities still have the ability to use private actors in the foster home work, and I want to look at this regulation more closely with the government's goal of phasing out the commercial actors in the field of child protection. But as it is now, the laws are as they stand, and as the Storting decided in ours.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e1029	Thanks for the answer. It is quite right, as the Council of State says, that when the Stortinge treated the Child Protection Act, the government parties here promoted a proposal – which was given a majority – that ensures that private individuals can continue to recruit and follow up. So it's in the Children's Protection Act today. But the government partner Arbeiderpartiet and the supporting party SV voted against this, as I also said in my main question. The Hurdal platform also contains wording that violates what the majority voted in favour and that is in force under the Child Protection Act. So the question remains: how is the Council of State going to deal with the fact that at least one of two government parties and the main support party in the United Kingdom have a different approach to this than in the current child protection law?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e1036	As I see it, the Solberg government suggested that private operators could not enter into agreements directly with foster homes on terms and conditions, and that the government party then went against its own government and not make a new proposal, but a proposal to draw that paragraph. I also read that there was a joint committee that saw that this could be a problem in terms of recruitment. So this is a debate over hearing statements from both sides. We haven't suggested changing the law now, but we'll evaluate it in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e1041	It is still quite right that the Solberg government proposed it, and that the government parties, together with the Progress Party, put forward a proposal for that paragraph to be removed from the law at the time of the discussion here. And that's the law. Equally fully promoted the Workers' Party and SV other proposals, so I would encourage the Council of State to read the setting again. One thing is that the Hurdal platform can be a little uplifting reading for those who want a diversity, but the Hurdal platform fades quickly when you read the budgetary unity between the government and the SV, which reads as follows: ‘The government is asked by March 2022 to set up a public body to assess how commercial operations can be phased out in different tax-funded welfare services and to provide a separate zero profit model for each such sector.’ The NHO strongly warned against it yesterday. Is it the policy of the Council of State and the Central Party to say that all welfare services are to be provided by the public? And, not least, how does she realize that smaller municipalities in the districts, which are the ones that buy services to the greatest extent, are going to do this?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e1055	I would first like to say that I have read the setting, and I am concerned that it needs to be presented correctly. I think it's important to be honest about the purpose of the child protection reform. It is giving municipalities increased responsibility for child protection services as well as for foster homes – financial responsibility. I think it's hugely important that the public is better able to recruit foster homes. Here, we might understand layers. While the Right believes that there should be competition, and that we rely on private commercials to provide services to children, the most vulnerable children, who cannot live with their own family, we think that here we need to strengthen the municipal and public services, and then we need to have a good cooperation with private ideals. It's our policy, and he's probably a little different from Right's policy in the field.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e1071	This question has been drawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e1079	‘Is it the case that the Government of Støre does not wish to facilitate life-vision-neutral spaces as they cut into the arrangement established by the Solberg Government in 2021, nor could it strengthen and expand it, or does the Government and the Council of State consider taking a new initiative for the development of life-vision-neutral seremony in the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e1084	I would first like to say to the representative that the Solberg government did not create a new system for life-vision neutral seremony in 2021, but the representative may have seen an entry in the budget, in favour of private meeting rooms, which are in the Ministry of Children's and Family Affairs' budget. It is an arrangement that has existed for many decades, but in the budget for 2022 the post got a new name. It was changed from private church buildings to private meeting rooms, just to indicate that life - vision societies could also be included. It is right that the government in the draft budget has proposed to cut this scheme. It comes from the fact that the system has turned out to be little, and after a while little controversial, and it is partly overlapping with the large backbone of the truss and life-vision societies. The floats can also be used to arrange meeting rooms. The representative asks whether one could consider strengthening or expanding that scheme. I think that's a good argument to remove the scheme when it's not used, and it's a bad solution to expand out of it. In the notification part of the proposal for new trust law, the need for life-visioned seremony was addressed. It was pointed out that: ‘Local conditions, assessments and decisions should underpin the establishment of open-label serum life. Municipalities, organisations, communities of faith and life and private initiatives should cooperate to find good and flexible solutions based on local needs.» In addition, from 2019 onwards, life-visioned seremony was incorporated into the purpose of the decentralised cultural building backlog scheme, which is a back-up scheme under the Ministry of Culture and is managed by the county municipalities. It was also a solution to which several county councils advised when the test scheme with the support of life-vision neutral seremonirom was evaluated, which was from 2012 to 2015. For these reasons, I cannot see the need for new initiatives to build life-vision neutral serums, and I would rather encourage municipalities and others to cooperate to find the good solutions locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e1100	It has been a bit of a recurring challenge that schemes that have been set up for this purpose have been little used. It was probably also a scheme set up by the red-green government in the period 2005–2013 that was not used very well. It's possible to imagine that the arrangements might not be used either because they're a little too small, because there's a little too little money there, and because they're a little too little known. Then I don't think the solution to cutting this system seems so very constructive. Perhaps it should be increased by making an effort to make the scheme more familiar. It is now a situation in which the population of Norway is becoming more and more diverse, and although progress is slow, we know that the need for life-vision neutral seremony, perhaps especially at funerals, will increase in the years to come. The Council of State comes here with a call for the municipalities, but I wonder if the Council of State will also consider some somewhat more powerful instruments to ensure that the municipalities actually aim to set up such rooms, which we know will be needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e1109	If it was a good idea to cut into an arrangement where the money is unused, it's a political discussion. We thought that it was no longer an argument to keep it up when we have a lot of other priorities. So there's money that's unused. There are also other forward arrangements that we can use for the same purpose. For my encouragement to the municipalities: I would like to say that it was the government of Solberg, of which the Left was part, that provided a message and a proposition for the new trust society law in 2019. There were just these assessments – that there should be a local responsibility, and that good solutions are emerging in cooperation at the local level. In any case, there are life-vision neutral seromoniums in the largest cities and in several smaller municipalities. I think that's the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e1116	Many of us who live in a little larger municipalities like to have an opportunity to choose where we want to let the big events of life happen, both because there is a variety of religious communities that have built themselves, and because in larger municipalities you have often found very good solutions. Now, the Council of State represents a party that often has a concern and a commitment to the districts. This was an engagement that, among other things, Author Agnes Ravatn put on words in a chronicle in the Evening Post a few weeks ago, where she arranged that we could use several places, for example. Older church buildings, or that at least we need a good deal to ensure that we also have a real freedom of belief and a real freedom of religion in situations related to, for example, funeral, even in the countryside. The question is, what kind of initiative will the Central Party and Kjersti Toppe take in securing a real freedom of belief across the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e1125	We're probably some of the people who believe that it's very important to secure freedom of trust across the country, and that there should not be an offer in just larger municipalities or big cities. It's an important thing to address. I think the big message suggested that it would be possible just to get up such seremoniums across the country with the back order. So until one can use the churches for this purpose; it has also been part of the debate: the state no longer has any role in approving other uses of church buildings. Managing the Code of Use of Churches is a responsibility of the Church itself, so I think I have to resolve it with other overarching arrangements or local unity.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e1159	Questions Nos. 13, 14 and 15 are at risk because of the state council's disease decay.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e1173	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e1181	‘The electricity prices are now record high in the eastern, western and southern regions, and ‘common people’ and households experience 3-4-5 times higher electricity bills than normal. What has the Council of State intended to do with ‘common people’ getting so high that this can also quickly go beyond their ability to get a normal Christmas celebration with normal Christmas trade towards Christmastime that is so important to all of us?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e1188	The government has a lot of understanding that the electricity bill is now a big expense item for a lot of ordinary families. Therefore, we apply measures aimed at households that are struggling with high electricity bills, and measures that reduce the part of the electricity bill that goes to the country. We are now also considering more measures that take even wider measures than housing support does. As the representative points out, the electricity prices in the East, West and South have been unusually high lately. In Central Norway and North Norway, power prices have been at normal levels, but are now increasing. As a result of the current situation, the government proposed in October to increase housing aid payments in areas with the highest energy price. The housing aid is an immediate and targeted measure, where we can provide an additional payment to many who need a helping hand. On 20 November, each household receiving housing allowance received an extra NOK 2 950. Those who are more than one person in the household received a supplement of 120 kroner per person in addition to this. An expert group has also been set up to evaluate the current housing support scheme. The expert group shall, inter alia: discuss whether changes in electricity prices should be more reflected in the level of housing aid. Furthermore, the government proposes to reduce the electricity charge by about 48 pst., or 8 øre, in the winter months from January to March, when the power price is normally highest. For the rest of the year we cut the electricity charge by approx. 9 pst., or 1.5 cents lower. This results in a total fee bill of about SEK 2.9 billion. kr. The proposal will benefit all households that pay the electricity tax, and provide a household with an average consumption of around NOK 750 per year. With a power supply based on renewable energy, electricity prices will vary by weather. At the same time, we are affected by the conditions in the countries around us. We have had periods of low prices in Norway, but also periods of high prices. In 2020, for example, Norwegian power prices record low, with great anticipation of our hydropower system. In 2021 the situation has turned upside down. In the longer term, the development of more power generation and grid reinforcements, both Norwegian and Swedish, will help to reduce price differences between north and south in the country. In the Hurdal platform, we point to several measures for increased energy production, with the aim that Norway will continue to have surplus production of power, and that there will be a competitive advantage for Norwegian industry. Now, however, the situation is so serious for many that the government turns every stone to see how we can help households in the totally unusual situation that is right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e1207	The Council of State indicates that the government will cut some percentage in an electricity charge that totals NOK 350 per household. The currently supported add-on is approx. A couple of hundred dollars for each household. At the same time, Statnett and Statkraft account for many billions, approx. 10 B.C.E. kr remain. The State also receives significant VAT revenue in the billion class. Then the question is, does the Council of State think that giving 200-300 kroner to households Monnar when there are consumers, common people, who might get 5,000, 6000, 7,000, 8,000, 9000 dollars in extra power expenditure per month?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e1214	The short answer to that question is no. This government has a different policy from that of the previous government, because we believe that the competitive advantage of reasonable and abundant access to Norwegian power is still to be maintained. The Progress Party, the party from which the representative Sve comes, has run the Oil and Energy Department for seven of the last eight years, and a former oil and energy minister, Tord Lien, said it was right that electricity prices increased so that Statnet could expand more. I disagree with that claim, because I believe that reasonable power is a good thing for our country. I have been a Minister of Oil and Energy for six weeks and am now working on the measures that we are going to implement. Unfortunately, this situation was not taken into account by the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e1223	There is one reason why the front window of a car is larger than the back window. There is now a power crisis in Norway. What happened one or five years ago doesn't help people who sit and freeze today. I hope the Council of State sees an actual need to take action today. I want to ask the following questions to the Council of State: We see that the magazine is now at a critical level, one has exported power to the rest of the world corresponding to approx. 800,000 households, and one continues to export. England is exporting its power and its teeth now, it says in the media, about. 10 B.C.E. NOK in the Norwegian stream. Then the Norwegian people are wondering if the government and the state council are going to strangle the cables and make sure that the force is used here in Norway, or if one will continue to emit the force when the magazine is now empty.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e1230	I share the view that there must be more powerful measures for those households that are now struggling with electricity bills. Because it's extremely high prices. You might say that it's easier to look forward than backwards, but at least I have the ambition, also on behalf of the government that's now sitting, that we have to look forward, because we need to increase power generation, and we need it to still be reasonable and rich in power, so that we can build new industry in Norway and create jobs, and keep having reasonable power for people. Then I find that the previous government was not as concerned about it, but more concerned about it, for example. to facilitate the construction of foreign tables, with the justification given by former State Councillor Tord Lien, that prices were higher so that Statnet could get money to build new power plants. This government has told us not to build any more foreign tables in this period, and it's solid.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e1238	‘In the NRK programme Debate 23 September, the Workers’ Party’s representative stated that high electricity prices were positive, as consumption then went down, and presumptuous emissions decreased. The Ministry of Oil and Energy has previously confirmed that full electricisation of the base will increase the electricity bill by up to NOK 1200 per year for an average Norwegian household. Does the Council of State feel that the high electricity prices we currently see are positive throughout the country and especially in the southern power regions, and is this a desirable development in terms of reducing consumption and climate emissions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e1245	The short answer to this question is no. The level of current prices we have now is far too high for Norwegian households. The current bill is the one that too many are the very largest variable of bills that ordinary people get, and I disagree with those who think that high electricity prices are a good one. Among them I disagree with former oil and energy minister Tord Lien's statement that the power cables abroad were an important tool for getting prices high enough to make renewable energy development profitable in Norway. I understand that the electricity bill is now a major cost item for many, and therefore we are putting in several measures, such as increased housing support and reduced electricity charge, and we are also looking at other possible measures that can help people who are currently struggling to pay their electricity bill. The representative of Nilsen also asks whether there is a desirable trend in reducing consumption and climate emissions. I also disagree with that claim; it's negative with high power prices. In the Hurdal platform, the government parties state that with access to reasonable and clean energy for decades, Norwegian industry has been the main competitive advantage, and that it will continue to be so in the future. Here we differ from the previous government, which did not have ambitious goals that cheap and clean power will continue to be a competitive advantage for Norwegian industry in the future, but that wanted high power prices to expand. In the platform, we also point to a number of measures that can be implemented, including geographical price smoothing of network rentals, strengthened consumer rights and increased production of Norwegian power, which are measures we are considering in the future. In the additional number of the budget, the government proposes to cut the electricity tax by nearly 50 p.m. in the winter months January to March. This is eight ears lower per kilowatt hour than in 2021 and will reduce the current bill in the winter months, when it's usually the highest. The electricity prices we see this year are a reminder of the basic characteristics of our power supply. It varies in weather conditions and is also affected by developments in our neighbouring countries. Only one year ago we were able to record record low power prices in Norway, and by 2021 the situation has turned around. Europe is experiencing record high prices of coal, gas and CO 2 quotas, while dry weather and low warehouse entry in parts of Norway have been observed. These conditions affect electricity prices regardless of electrification in Norway, whether we are talking about power to land-based industry or to the base. In the next decade, Norway will need more power and better transmission systems to build new green industries, electrify society and reach our climate goals. In the longer term, the development of more power generation and reinforcement of the network will help to keep electricity prices down and reduce price differences between north and south in the country. In the Hurdal platform, we therefore point to several measures for increased energy production, with the aim of maintaining overproduction by Norway. Now the government turns every stone to see how we can help Norwegian households pay the high bills that are coming in winter, and that's my main focus.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e1265	That's good tones, because it's very important to act quickly. But I will also – in view of my previous question – give the Workers' Party justice: the consumption goes down when prices are sky-high, because people can't afford to have a warm home and use less power. We heard that last night at the debate, from a mother with two children who lived in a cold home and who could not afford the sky-high electricity bills or Christmas presents. I'm going to admit that the Council of State has got a shell of fire in its position, with an energy crisis in Europe and sky-high prices in Norway. This is due to many factors, but one of the most important is climate policy that has dwindled energy policy and security of supply in Europe, and where Norway imports the problem through foreign tables, giving rise to skyrocketing prices. The last time the Workers' Party and the Centre were in government, they presented the vision that Norway would be Europe's green battery. Can the Council of State clarify whether the Labour Party and the Central Party governments still have this vision, and if the Council of State considers it right that Norwegian electricity customers are the ones who take the bill for Europe's misguided energy policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e1274	As I have already explained in my previous answer, there are a number of issues that affect the high current prices today, and that is not an easy answer to complicated questions. It's also the case that this government has clearly stated that we don't want to build more foreign tables in this period, and it's absolutely solid. We're not going to do that, and we're not going to change our minds about foreignables like the Progress Party has done, which went in the breeze, among other things. for the extension when it happened at the time it did. Then I just want to be able to comment on the following, and it is, as the representative here has said, that a high price level that reduces consumption – makes people sit at home and turn the heat down or don't shower – is not desirable. We are going to do something about this, and we are going to take measures that are also broader than housing support.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e1281	It is true that several foreign tables have been built, and we took over several foreign tables from the government, among others. The Workers' Party and the Center Party when we arrived in the department. Norwegian water storage plants have a historically low filling rate, and this during the winter so far. By the end of November, Norway had exported more than 11 pst. by the power we produce annually, out of the country, and exports continue too fully. Governments have confirmed to me in response to a written question that electrification of the socket – although there is much higher electricity prices for most people – should also continue for full machines. The proposals of the Progress Party have been put to a vote, and no action taken by the current situation has yet been launched by the government. People are freezing and cannot afford to heat the house, because there is electricity we use as the main source of heating in Norway today. Does the Council of State mean that the Norwegian people in the future are the ones who are going to take the sky high bill for both Norwegian and European climate policy, and only have to find themselves living in cold houses in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e1288	The short answer to that too is no, and I have supported it with everything I have said in the previous answers. But I want to stress that if we don't continue the electrification of our society, when we don't have the climate goals we've set ourselves internationally committed to, and the Storting has confirmed. That's why it's so important that we now make a plan for the further development of our renewable power grid, and that's a top priority task for this government. Then, of course, one could wish that one could have made these plans so that they were ready today, but this council cannot take responsibility for it. That must be the responsibility of the previous government not to happen. But that's the way I'm doing that work, and I also want to cooperate with the Stortinget. We can achieve the objectives we have for a reasonable renewable energy to benefit people and industry in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e1298	‘The NRK has once again revealed a cruel case in Grue. The man who lived in the nursing home had been without electricity, the refrigerator was full of land and in bed there was mold faeces. I could keep describing the awkward conditions, but I won't. I think everyone understands what kind of relationship was in the apartment. The worst thing is that no later than August this year, there was another case in the municipality of Grue about serious failure in the care and care services. It's unforgivable. What action will the Council of State take to ensure that this never happens again?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e1305	The citizens of municipalities must be confident that they will be met by a public health service providing sound and good services. It's the responsibility of the municipalities. It is serious when the citizens of the municipalities do not receive the health and care services they require. All municipalities want the best for their citizens, and they strive to provide a good health and care service. However, when there are errors or deviations, I expect the municipalities to follow up the feedback they receive from the supervisory authorities. Over several years, the supervisory authorities have identified offences in the health and care services of the municipality of Grue. It's very serious. I am aware that there is now close dialogue between the State Manager and the Municipality. I expect both political and administrative management in the municipality to take the feedback seriously, and that they will continue to take the necessary steps to correct the defects and deficiencies. Where a municipality receives repeated feedback from the supervisory authorities, they should look at their own organisation and how they ensure proper internal control. The law is clear that the municipality has an obligation to plan, implement, evaluate and correct the activities so that the services comply with law and regulations. In this way, the supervisory authorities must at all times make an overall assessment of the measures that can contribute to solving the problems facing the municipality. I trust that the supervisory authorities will make thorough assessments of what are appropriate measures and instruments in each case – also in the Grue municipality. I expect the municipality to have both plans and take care of the matters mentioned and to which the representative referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e1316	I think it is a little sad that the only thing the council does is to say that this is the municipality's responsibility and expect the municipality to follow up. So over the last ten years, a municipality has been overseen for fourteen years, where 11 of the authorities have committed serious violations of law and legislation, and the Council of State is standing and saying that she expects the State Governor to follow this up and have good dialogue with the municipality. Yes, I expect that too, but when, after fourteen cases in a decade, eleven crimes or violations of the services to be given to the citizens, can the Council of State simply continue to say that this is the responsibility of the municipality? I think it's total disclaimer. I understand that the Council of State would not meet in debate, and that's why I called the Council of State in here, because I think it's so serious, and I think it's too simple. What authority does the State Manager or Health Authority have to actually do even harder work? This cannot continue, and it is about the trust and credibility of the care services that people get from municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e1323	We have supervisory authorities to do their job, and they have done so here – pointed out errors and deficiencies. These are strong personal stories. It is also the case that the municipality has taken action and changed its plans and also reorganised parts of the business where errors and deficiencies have been found. Then, unfortunately, new things have come up, as the representative Hoksrud points out. We must continue to point out errors and breaches of the law and regulations. That is the role of the supervisory authority. It is not that you can go in and override a municipality in these cases. I do not expect the representative to propose this either. But there are issues that concern the individual, who is also running, in the organisation we have in Norway, which applies to all municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e1330	Well, in fact, I think this is so serious that here it no longer just keeps saying that you have revealed. You actually have to make sure that it's properly followed up, that it doesn't happen. So that's going to happen again. After this case was brought up, a new case has emerged, which has become known after it, where the municipality has not done what it is supposed to do. I record that the municipality has said that this is a long-term work. There can no longer be a long-term work here, and I challenge the Council of State: Can the Health Authority and the State Manager go in an even more active way and make sure that people can trust that when you are provided nursing and care services by a municipality, you actually get services that comply with laws, regulations and regulations, that you can be sure of that? I think this is very serious. After this case was revealed, I have unfortunately received many, many enquiries from around the country about the challenges of care and care and the care of the elderly in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e1337	This is a municipality that unfortunately has had several things. Former senior minister of the representative’s party, Åse Michaelsen, was also visiting them at an early stage, and it is important that the supervisory authority at all times make a concrete assessment of the measures that can help solve the problems and prevent new mistakes. It is the supervisory authority and the municipality that have that picture; it is neither the Council of State nor the representative Hoksrud. So we have to trust that they're doing this job, and it's totally unacceptable that there's a crime going on. Citizens have the right to sound health and care services. There's the law ready. This is something we are trying to facilitate that all municipalities can do, but the municipalities must also take responsibility for organizing themselves in such a way that errors do not repeat themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e1351	This issue has been raised when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e1360	‘The plumbery is a small, organic and popular actor in the store shelf. Now they have also turned on in Minnesota among the Norwegian-speaking Americans, and Røros Butter is located in over 65 salsa towns. It's expensive to be a small producer, and when costs get too high, it doesn't help to be popular. Since the Agriculture Directorate recently changed the conditions for distribution aid to dairy operators, the small dairy industry will have dramatically increased costs by 8 million. krones. It's almost half their operating result. A solution may be to introduce a bottom subtraction. It can ensure shortages, local workplaces and the future for local founders, agricultural and tourism industries. The left has a heart for small business players and a lack of food production. Will the Council of State put a basic plan into the dairy support and levy schemes so that small local actors can secure viable conditions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e1367	I would like to thank the representative Berge Stag for an interesting question that once again gives me the opportunity to talk about the milk and dairy sector in Norway. Rørosmeieriet is today the market leader for organic drinking milk. They are supplied to Røros via Tine Råvare from competent organic milk producers from Østfold and Vestfold in the south to the north of Tøndelag in the north. It is also gratifying to note that the Rørosmeieret has succeeded in exporting butter to the United States. As a competitor of Tine, Rørosmeieriet today receives 27 ears per litre of milk they use in production. This grant is financed by the price equalisation scheme. Until now, they have received 50 ears per litre of distributed liquid milk. This grant has also been financed under the same scheme. In order to receive distribution grants, rules on the milk price equalisation scheme require that the distribution costs of the Rørosmeierium should be significantly higher than those of Tines. The Directorate of Agriculture is responsible for managing the regulation and they have found that this condition is no longer met. The Executive Board has therefore decided to suspend the payment of the grant. The plumbery has complained about the decision, and if the Agriculture Directorate does not change its position in its treatment, I and my department will deal with this complaint. The Q-Meieriene and the Rørosmeieriet have requested the Ministry to suspend the implementation of the decision after the Agriculture Directorate has rejected this. The Ministry of Agriculture decided yesterday — as I said earlier today — to grant the Q-Meieriene the deferred implementation of the Agriculture Directorate’s decision that the Q-Meieriene do not comply with the requirements to receive distribution grants. This means that Q-Meierien will continue to be able to receive distribution grants for the period until the final decision in the appeal case is available. If, in its appeal proceedings, the Ministry confirms the decision of the Directorate, the date of application of the decision will be 1 November 2021, and the amount paid from that date will have to be refunded. As I was in the house, I have also asked the Agriculture Directorate to grant the Rørosmeieriet suspension under the same conditions as the Q-Meieriene. The Hurdal Platform states that the government should gradually phase out competition policy instruments from the price balancing mechanism. I have on very many occasions underlined the word "gradual". The phase-out will take place after thorough investigations and in good dialogue with the actors. In the case of organic milk in particular, I would like to point out that the Directorate of Agriculture is now investigating added value, extra costs and bottlenecks in the organic milk value chain. The purpose is to point to any changes in the instruments in this value chain. The investigation will be ready by 1 March next year, and I look forward to getting it on my table.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e1376	A shortage of Norwegian agricultural products is quite necessary and good for agriculture and the consumer. From the early 1980s, when quotas were introduced in the milk sector, drinking milk consumption fell sharply, despite the fact that the population has increased by one and a half million inhabitants. The plumbing industry is happy to sell its products to other markets, including outside Europe. This suggests that we are important in developing agriculture, but also in ensuring agriculture throughout the country. Focusing on shortages will strengthen the agricultural situation in the whole country. Is the Council of State in agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e1381	Governments are very concerned about Norwegian food and Norwegian milk. I also want to pay tribute to the Rørosmeieriet for the job they do to raise the sale of organic milk. We pride ourselves on organic farming and look forward to the results of the investigation I mentioned in my first answer, which the Directorate of Agriculture is now working on, and it is being carried out precisely to reveal bottlenecks and point to measures to strengthen the value chain for organic milk. It will, of course, benefit the Rørosmeieriet.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e1386	In Switzerland, agricultural training offers a farmer's wife line. It's not a feeling I'm happy about, but the point is an education that's about developing complementary industries and product development in the agricultural industry. They also focus a lot on local food at the Mora agricultural school in Trøndelag. Does the Council see a potential in developing agricultural training to focus more on local small dairy and other agricultural products to stimulate more shortages and strengthen additional industries in agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e1391	The short answer to that is a clear and clear yes, and this government is just delivering on it. In the Hurdal platform, we say that we should go through all agricultural training at all levels, just to make it more attractive to choose this type of profession. One concern I've had and have is that we see that we need to build up the attractiveness of the subjects that will make more young people choose this type of profession. It is incredibly important for this government to bet on agricultural education in the future, and I am happy to start that job.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e1399	‘How will the Council of State deal with juvenile sentences and youth follow-up as a real penalty option with a reasonable duration of proceedings, despite the government’s proposal to reduce support for this in the additional number of the State budget?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e1404	Let me first thank the representative Thorsvik for the question and commitment related to the criminal responses to juvenile punishment and youth follow-up. Since 2014, the Council of Conflict has been responsible for coordinating the implementation of the criminal responses to juvenile punishment and follow-up. Youth sentences are aimed at young people who have committed ‘repeated or serious crime’ and are an alternative to prison sentences and the most severe social penalties. The duration of the reaction may be up to three years. Youth follow-up is for young people who have committed one or more minor offences, and the response may last up to one year. Both responses require that young people have a need for follow-up, and aim to help young people to live a life free of crime. In the draft budget of the previous government, there was an item of 3 million. to the Councils of Conflict. In the revised national budget for 2021, the previous government had added 5 million. kr for this purpose. So the proposal for partial continuation in 2022 meant in itself a cut in the action that the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Right were behind. When the government in our supplementary proposition has proposed not to continue the funds, it is important to remember that the processing time in these cases has had a positive development in the last few years, from 74 days, the median, in 2016 to 54 days, the median, in 2020. The conflict council secretariat is also working with other actors in the criminal justice chain to limit time use from offences to the start of the criminal execution of juvenile sentences and youth follow-up. The Ministry of Justice and Defence proposed improvements to the criminal response at the hearing in autumn 2020. The Ministry is now working to follow up this hearing. One of the aims of the improvements is to reduce the time between crime and the response taken. The government will come back to the Storting about this in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e1417	Youth sentences and youth follow-up are important criminal alternatives for young people aged 15 to 18. The imprisonment of children shall only be an absolute last resort and only in very special cases. It is also provided for in the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. In the follow-up to youth and youth sentences, there is a greater emphasis on recovery and discussion with possible insults as an individual close follow-up. In 2016, an in-flight report on the scheme was made, and it recommended that the follow-up be launched more quickly after the crime. As the Council of State says, there are 54 days of proceedings, the median, in the conflict council today. With the cut that lies within the budget of the government and the SV, the Ministry of Justice admits that the processing time may be even longer. For a youth in need of help and follow-up, 54 days are already incredibly long, especially for young people on the threshold of recurring crime and other challenges. How will the Council of State ensure that it is cut during the course of proceedings as long as there is less money in it than it did in last year's budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e1428	I fully agree that it is important that there should be the shortest possible time between the crime that has been committed and the follow-up, just to ensure that the follow-up has the effect of helping the youth to have a different life, without any new crime. There is also a background for the Ministry of Justice and Security to have several processes in place to shorten the time between crime and response. As I said in my first answer, there were proposals for improvements on juvenile punishment and youth follow-up at the hearing in the autumn of 2020. We are now working on the follow-up to that hearing and will come back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e1433	Thanks for the answer. I'm very excited to see which processes are going to shorten that time, all the time that will lead to cuts in the number of employees. Youth sentences and youth follow-up should, of course, be individually adapted to meet each individual youth. For some it may mean therapy or sensory cord, and for others it may mean follow-up through, for example. a leisure activity. In order to implement this scheme, young people are dependent on motivation, and follow-up is also necessary. In the report I referred to, researchers stress the importance of individual adaptation of follow-up. In order to set up such a striking youth plan, the staff of the conflict councils depend on their having a network set up over time to set up this interdisciplinary team to follow up on the youth. They also rely on the building-up of their competence in this area. The Ministry of Justice admits that several of the temporary posts created last year could have to fall away with this cut, and this could affect both the young people and the trade unions... [[President clubs]] [[The President clubs again.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e1440	That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e1445	As I said, I appreciate the commitment to juvenile punishment. It is important that we be able to follow these young people in a good way and as quickly as possible. So I feel the need to say a little bit about the budget history here, since it's the topic of the question. The Conflict Council was sustained by 16 million. kr in 2019, and then, in 2020, an additional strength was introduced in the revised national budget, which was provisionally justified by the pandemic. It was $4 million. kr. So it returned to a temporary gain of 5 million. kr, in the revised national budget for 2021. The government that was set before this government, of which the Left was part, did not propose to continue the entire temporary reinforcement, but it was proposed to continue 3 million. NOK, and then we've decided that we won't continue that pot at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e1455	I allow myself to ask the Minister of Justice and Security the following questions: ‘In response to a written question, the Council of State reiterates many of the measures undertaken by the Solberg Government to prepare Norway for a migration wave. The Council of State notes: ‘Although UDI measures have been implemented in recent years to ensure a good basic preparedness for the initial stage of arrival, it may nevertheless be demanding for UDI if the arrivals of asylum exceed the capacity they have taken into account.’ What will the government do, beyond what the Council of State has replied in writing, in order to ensure preparedness, in the light of the situation along the external border of Europe?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e1464	The development of the EU's external border with Belarus is worrying. The migrations from Belarus have so far not resulted in an increase in the number of asylum seekers to Norway. It can change, and we follow the situation closely. It is difficult to say in advance whether Norway will be affected in the short or longer term, both by the situation along the border of Belarus and elsewhere. Faced with this uncertainty, we must ensure good preparedness. In the wake of the 2015/2016 refugee crisis, several regulatory changes were adopted. Among other things, an emergency shelter was introduced for a crisis situation with exceptionally high asylum arrivals directly from a neighbouring Nordic country. In such situations, asylum seekers may be denied substantive treatment and expelled at the border. As regards the handling of asylum seekers coming to Norway, I would like to point out that the Department has delegated operational responsibility for the accommodation of asylum seekers to the Directorate of Foreign Affairs, UDI. As part of this responsibility, the UDI shall at all times be prepared to deal with rapid changes in the number of asylum seekers to Norway. Today, the national arrival centre represents a strategic element of the asylum reception structure. The Arrival Centre is rapidly scalable if there is a rapid and unexpected increase in asylum arrivals, although pandemic management temporarily limits capacity utilisation. In order to ensure a minimum reception capacity, we also have a system of so-called basic capacity. It is a system that must ensure a minimum of reception in operation even if the arrivals of asylum are low. In the state budget for 2022, the level is adjusted to 2,735 places available, in addition to the National Arrival Centre, to which the government has joined. In this context, I recall that, as of today, there is still a very low level of arrival in Norway in a historical perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e1479	It is quite tempting simply to repeat the question that I asked the Council of State just now. That is what the government, in addition to what the Council of State has replied to in writing, will do to prepare Norway for the possible situation, and as the Council of State also points out in its written reply that it can be demanding. What I really feel now is that we simply repeat all the measures that the Solberg government has taken to prepare Norway for a migration wave, which may mean that the new government does not really have a plan or a preparedness to deal with the situation that may come. I hope the Council of State can comment on this in its reply. At the same time, there are many important international meetings in the future where this will also be important. I am aware of the fact that there is a meeting of EU Ministers of the Interior next week, and it will be interesting to hear what position the Council of State will take on that meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e1484	As I said, the government is following the situation closely, both in Belarus – where one sees Belarus using migrants in a political power game – and what happens in other parts of the world, because it can lead to higher asylum arrivals here in Norway. One of the things we're doing is that the UDI aims to launch new framework agreements in December of this year, which will provide additional reception places for asylum, with a view to an allocation in February 2022. In order to ensure a proper preparedness at the external border of Schengen, in Finnmark, the UDI has now planned a new asylum reception in the municipality of South Varanger. It'll start there very quickly. So these are some of the things we're doing to ensure a better preparedness in Norway. This is in addition to many of the existing institutions and measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e1489	I note that the Council of State still repeats what she has already said to be implemented, in an answer that really does not address the concern that the Council of State itself, in its answer to the written question, points out that she has, when she says it can be demanding for UDI if the arrivals of asylum increase beyond the capacity they have taken into account. It is very important that the government is early on and has a good framework for dealing with any major arrivals. I also note that the government will not promote the legislative proposals put forward by the Solberg Government, among others. on preparedness also during the arrival phase. Let me repeat the question of the EU Home Affairs Minister's meeting. Does the Council of State intend to play a role in that meeting? I ask in particular because it is important to have close cooperation with Europe on these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e1496	Norway has dialogue with other countries both within and outside Europe on the challenges we face in terms of migration. When, for example: on the situation we have seen in Belarus, several measures have been put in place, among others. The EU to remedy it. Of course, we will continue to have this kind of dialogue as the assumptions underlying possible arrivals to Norway arise outside Norway’s borders, which Europe will be a central part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e1504	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: "After the Right launch of new measures against recriminalism in week 47, the Council of State said to the NRK, "that they are now concerned about this, I think it is only positive, because that means that we can have a majority of important measures to strengthen the fight against recriminalism." Does this response to our play mean that the Government will support the new proposed measures against recrime?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e1513	There is little new in the actions on the right now listed. As the representative may know, several of them have already been adopted in the Grand Duchy and are being dealt with in the Ministry of Justice and Defence. In the case of the two measures on the reverse alarm against violence against recriminals and on sufficient grounds for imposing a long-term criminal residence ban in a particular geographical area, it was promoted by the Centre Party and the Workers' Party in the Inner East. 204 S for 2018-2019 in March 2019. The right then voted against the proposal. It was later promoted again in the Innst. 147 S for 2019-2020 and adopted by a total of 18 December 2020. That is why the Ministry of Justice has now submitted proposals for this at the hearing on 6 December this year. It is also particularly important for the Right to present new police resources as a ‘new’ response to crews and prevention. I remember that it's only been six weeks since the Right left a government where police consultancy has increased dramatically and the police reform according to the DFØ evaluation of April 2021 has not provided any of the most important things to prevent crime, namely the goal of increased presence and visibility locally. One of the first measures this government put forward was just to grant 200 million. more than right to more policemen and better prevention. This will now be dealt with in Stortinget, and the right will have to vote for this money if they believe that it is an important measure. Right-wing ‘new’ measures to put in place rapid tracks for the imprisonment of juveniles and recriminals could have done something for themselves. One of the major challenges in how fast we can detain children and youth criminals is that we do not have enough prison places for this group. The government has been clear that we want to expand the capacity of the child and youth units, and the Right must also support us in this. We've had weapons names path at regular intervals under different governments, and it might be time to have left. It is a good measure to improve the control of unregistered weapons, and it will give people an opportunity to clean up, for example. vigilance weapons. But it won't break the reindeer crime. It was last a weapon name path in 2017 without the gangs being gone today for that reason. There is uncertainty about the success of the action in respect of weapons held by criminal gangs. I would also like to point out that Oslo Police District will now implement several other measures to combat recriminalism, among others. with training of police, increased patrols of uniform police and targeted investigation to mitigate conflicts and stop spirals of violence. Some of the gang criminals are children. The government’s work against social inequality, poor living conditions, child poverty and exclusion is therefore also important to prevent this type of crime. In addition, the Centre Party and the Labour Party have previously promoted a number of other proposals in the Grand Duchy, which have been voted down by the Right, in order to strengthen their efforts against recriminals, including those against recriminals. more stringent withdrawal measures, knife violence measures and an exit programme for recriminals. The Exit programme will provide them with better opportunities to break out of the criminal environment permanently. This effort will now continue in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e1536	On the right, together with the government parties and the Progress Party, a number of measures were adopted last year and work was started on a major communication against juvenile and gang crime. The only active action the Minister of Justice has taken in this field is to draw exactly the message of corruption that we could now normally have had to deal with. Based on the answer from the council, it seems like one's most busy talking about the story, but I'd like to talk a little bit ahead. One of the measures we have is regional armaments in vulnerable areas of Oslo. There is nothing that has been suggested before, as far as I can see. Is this a measure that the Minister of Justice can stand behind, because she is so positive, or is it just a choice between point-arming or general-arming that is on the menu?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e1543	The use of power by the police is a major and important issue, and it is about all levels of use of power — from pepper spray to gun-arming. That's something I think it's natural to think well of. Now we have had quite a lot of progress in this area over the last few years, for example. we've had point-arming in some selected places, which we didn't have in the past. Test projects with electroscopic weapons have also been put in place and carried out, which will now be gradually phased into some police districts from the new year. That is why I now believe it is natural to gain experience of it before we possibly go further. And then the police director has the opportunity to deploy temporary weapons when the level of threat or the situation indicates that this is necessary – and we have also seen many examples of this in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e1548	The Minister of Justice was very offensive in his mention of these measures last week, but here she is a little bit more subdued. Another proposal is to extend the opportunity for the police to expel people from some areas and to reverse the procedural burden so that those who are expelled may even have to go to the court. If there was a proposal on, for example: to extend it to one week or more, is there anything the Minister of Justice will put behind it? That was at least how we interpreted it in Dagsrevyen last week.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e1555	I can repeat that I think it's very positive that the Right is concerned about how we're going to combat reindeer crime, because so am I. With regard to the specific question here, about a ban on residence, the police today have the right to expel people for a short period of time. And as I said, we in the department also have more proposals that go on these things. Otherwise, I'm more concerned with how to find good measures. I've mentioned the exit program, knife violence, and I've mentioned our appropriations to extra policemen, who Right has had many opinions about, although these are funds that Right does not even want to grant to extra policemen. That is why I feel the need to go back a little in history when the Right presents a list of what they call new measures, which is to a large extent a repetition of measures that have already been discussed or which have even been adopted in part in the Storting and for treatment in the ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e1562	Thus, the ordinary questionnaire is changed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-01.ana.ud399e1576	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
