ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e57	The called alternate of Rogaland, Hanne Marte Vatnaland, is now taking the seat. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting continues, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e80	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e97	The President will arrange the debate as follows: 10 minutes to the President and 5 minutes to other political groups. Furthermore, no lines will be given, and those who have to draw on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e102	The issue we are going to debate now is changes in Storting's Rules of Procedure. The presidency's position is based on two major investigative work. It is the report of the Regulatory Committee and the report of the sample to investigate the control function of the Storting, referred to as the Harberg Committee. The Committee of Rules of Procedure was appointed by the Presidency in June 2020 in line with previous practice in order to carry out an overall review of the Rules of Procedure of the Stortinge during the last session of the Grand Duchy. The Committee’s mandate was to review and, where appropriate, to present proposals for substantive amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Storting, and it was particularly desirable that the Committee should consider two themes. One was the need to facilitate the increased use of electronic tools, both in the light of the experience gained during the coronary crisis and in view of the increased digitisation of the parliamentary procedure in the future. The second main theme was the questioning institutes, including deadlines for replying and the relationship between the various questioning institutions. The Committee has had members from all party groups in Stortinget and was chaired by the undersigned. The Presidency has followed up many of the recommendations of the Regulatory Committee, but has also adopted a slightly different approach on some points, taking into account the cross-cutting considerations involved. As chairman of the Regulatory Committee, I have been in favour of things that have not been dissolved in the parties, so on some points the observers will see that I am opposed to certain things that I voted in favour of in the Regulatory Committee. But that's life. It is not possible to get through for absolutely everything, and in the presidency it has been important that we gather around the big lines. The Committee of the Rules of Procedure made several proposals to strengthen the plenary Stortinget as a central venue for political debate. One of the proposals was to revitalise the system whereby the Committee may, twice per session on its own initiative, address issues falling within the Committee's remit to debate in the Stortinget. This is often referred to as own-initiative debates. The Committee on the Rules of Procedure had a desire to hold weekly own-initiative debates and that a minority of the committees could also put matters on the agenda. This has been thoroughly discussed in the presidency, and we agree that this form of debate can be used more frequently than today. In order to make this possibility better known, the system of own-initiative debates is proposed to be made visible in a separate provision of the Storting Rules of Procedure. However, the Presidency does not wish to regulate the timing of such debates, as proposed by the Regulatory Committee, since this has a number of implications for the organisation of meetings and the resolution of other matters in the Stortinget. The proposal to introduce specific rights for a minority in the committees to take up an own-initiative debate is also not proposed by the Presidency. With regard to the questioning institutes, the majority of the Presidency has followed up an important amendment proposed by the Regulatory Committee on the conduct of inter-pelling debates. In order to increase the dynamism of the debates and to increase their interest, it is proposed that the inter-pellant time to justify the interpellant decrease from 10 to 5 minutes. Similarly, the time allocated to the members of the Government to respond to the interpellation is the same. This amendment will also allow several representatives to participate in the inter-pelling debate. The Regulatory Committee had several proposals to strengthen minority rights for small batches, including: the number of lines shall normally be such as to enable all lots to be replicated at state councils. There will always be different interests and difficult balances when it comes to giving some representatives in a way greater rights than other representatives, because that is really what this is really about. At the same time, we must balance the fact that all parties must have good conditions for participating in debates and parliamentary work. I would like to stress that, in the case of lines, the committees actually decide that, and we are therefore not in favour of amending the Rules of Procedure. The Korona crisis has provided important experience with new digital forms of work. Several of the new ways of organizing the work of the Storting Committees will continue as society reopens, and that happens as we sit here. In the case of committee meetings held using remote meeting technology, the Presidency considers that the experience of digital committee meetings has been largely positive, but will at the same time stress that physical participation in many contexts is important, perhaps especially at the beginning of a roll-out period, when committee members need to become familiar with each other and establish a good working form. It also has a clear self-esteem that the committees meet regularly. The Presidency therefore agrees with the Regulatory Committee that committee meetings should normally be held by the physical presence of committee members. However, the ability to participate digitally has more advantages. Among other things, it makes it easier for committee members to report lateness to committee meetings and facilitates the formation of a quorum, which is positive for the resolution of cases in the committees. The Presidency therefore considers that it should be up to each Committee to consider when it is appropriate for full or partial digital committee meetings and that there should not be a mechanism under which the Committees must first seek permission from the Presidency, as proposed by the Regulatory Committee. The Presidency is also associated with the regulatory committee’s proposal for the regulation of digital committee hearings. By being able to participate in hearings in the Storting by means of remote conference technology, it will be easier for long-distance hearing bodies to be able to communicate their views on issues for discussion in the Stortinget. This proposal also has an important democratic side. During the whole corona crisis, all plenary meetings have been held at physical meetings. The Presidency agrees with the Regulatory Committee that the meetings of the Storting should continue to be held by the representatives meeting and voting in the event of a physical presence in the Chamber. However, the Presidency believes that there may be reason to explore the relationship with the Constitution regarding the use of digital tools in the storeroom. In future crisis and emergency situations, the use of digital tools could be a possible option to maintain the decision-making capacity of the Storting in situations where it is impracticable to meet physically. The Committee of the Rules of Procedure has examined the division of labour between the committees in the Grand Duchy. There's always a discussion about how, for example, the plan items must be located and where asylum and refugee matters must be. There have been different opinions on this matter within the Regulatory Committee. In the presidency, the majority want the distribution to be like today, while a minority of Magne Rommetveit and myself propose that the plan items be moved to the Energy and Environment Committee. I would like to address those proposals with this in mind. As mentioned at the outset, some of the proposals in the vote on amendments to Stortinget’s Rules of Procedure are based on a proposal from the Harberg Committee. The Harberg Committee was appointed by the Presidency in June 2019. The selection had the participation of all party groups in the Storting and, in addition, external members appointed on a professional basis. The committee has issued a comprehensive report. The majority has already dealt with parts of the report, including proposals for a new law for the Civil Ombudsman and new law for the Ombudsman of the Defence Agency, and other parts of the report will be dealt with until the autumn. The parts of the report dealing with Storting’s Rules of Procedure were distributed to the Presidentship of Storting for follow-up. In line with the proposal of the Harberg Committee, the Presidency proposes that all reports and communications from external bodies should be examined in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. This is justified by the fact that this Committee has a comprehensive view of the control function of Stortinget. The proposal involves the transfer of responsibility for matters relating to the activities of the Ombudsman’s Department of Defence and the Norwegian Institute for Human Rights from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Defence Policy and the Committee on Justice to the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs respectively. Among the other proposals of the Harberg Committee, I would like to stress in particular that the provisions of the Stortinge Rules of Procedure on the investigation commissions appointed by the Stortinge have been reviewed. Furthermore, a number of adjustments are made to the control hearing regulation in order to bring it into line with practice. It is proposed that all the amendments to the Rules of Procedure should enter into force at the same time as the new enlargement takes place in October 2021. With this, I have presented the presidency's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e136	Then the first Vice President Eva Kristin Hansen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e141	Thank you to the President-in-Office of the Council on this matter for a thorough review of what has been the Presidency's consideration of this matter. There have been two thorough investigations, which the case-rapporteur also went through, in connection with the Harberg Committee’s position – parts of which have been dealt with in the Stortinget – and in the regular review of the Stortinget’s Rules of Procedure, which has been chaired by the case-rapporteur. This is, of course, a review every four years, so that we can always vote on the Rules of Procedure on the basis of what is the parliamentary debate, and whether there is a need to make changes in the light of the developments that have taken place, and also in the light of the experience we have had now in the Corona era. In particular, I aim to review both what we call hybrid solutions for committee meetings – that you are physically present and can also participate digitally – and what has been the case with lucky hearings, which give you a different change in the rules of procedure for the future. There is reason to remember that the Storting is The Storting collected in plenary, and that it is the physical presence in the plenary that is enshrined in the Constitution, and that no one can move the Storing out of this building to a grand meeting elsewhere in the country. It may also be good to remember that there is something above the Storting, which is called election, and there are people in elections, who will be the result of the composition of the Storing when the Storing is constituted and set every four years, and that it has consequences for the measured speaking time, the reply time and the presence in the composition of the various committees and the work done in the Storing. So when some party groups want to have more speaking time, it's like the people didn't want it. It should be reflected in the Storting even when we organize the work here, that speaking time reflects the force ratio given by the people in elections. Now I am going to comment on one aspect in particular, which is on proposals for amendments to the third paragraph of Section 75a of the Rules of Procedure, which is largely about the subject of the obligation of professional secrecy. According to the third paragraph of Section 75a of the Storting Rules of Procedure, employees of the party groups or other advisers must not be given access to classified information without the consent of the Presidentship of the Stortinge. It is important to stress, so that we keep what is outside of publicity, and that there is something that the representatives, who are elected by the people, should have in the first place. However, in matters under consideration in the Committees, the Committee may decide that advisers associated with a member of the Committee who follow the work of the Committee may have access to information classified by the protection directive and information classified by the Safety Act. The Committee to examine the control function of the Grand Duchy has proposed that the present system be replaced by a system whereby it is up to the representatives of the Committee to decide whether or not an employee of the Party Group needs useful information and the Committee decides whether or not to grant access to classified information for employees of the batches not represented in the Committee. Here the Presidency has shown that the provision was incorporated into the Stockholm Rules of Procedure in the spring of 2019 as part of the review of the rules of procedure on the processing of classified information in the light of new security laws, cf. Inner. 426 S for 2018-2019. The Presidential provisions of the Grand Duchy entered into force on 1 October 2019. Now I will also stress that what is of work in the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee is initially secret, it is classified, but that is also the agenda for that meeting. It is important to stress that all batch groups have to deal with this both in terms of calling and in terms of handling within the extended Foreign Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e160	I must first be allowed to say that I think this is an important work that takes place every four years: that one goes through and revises both the Rules of Procedure, the tools of Stortinget and the various ways in which we conduct debates. All in all, I think that the presidency has come up with a good balance and has also shown some caution, because I think that is necessary given the scale of changes that an actual one is making, both in terms of the way in which one implements the exchange of lines, the role of the President under the questioning institute and also other things. I also think there have been good balances in the use of digital tools. It's clear that after the pandemic, we're probably going to adapt the use of digital tools based on the experience we've done. The central party agrees that one must be somewhat restrained in the committees and committee meetings themselves, but we see that digital tools in committee hearings have worked well, and that it would be reasonable to be able to use in the future as well, and that it can actually allow for more hearings because one can then have digital hearings in smaller cases where one would normally not have a physical hearing. So we think that is a positive proposal. On the issue of the own-initiative debate, I would like to point out that the presidency here has been a little more reserved than perhaps the Regulatory Committee was, and I think that is right. I think it is necessary to have experience with that kind of form of debate. I would also like to stress that it is not necessary to generalise that you can have debates in Stortinget without one having the right to make proposals. I believe that such a form of debate, in which a person does not have wide-ranging exchanges of views or the right to make proposals, should not be the norm in Stortinget. That is why I also think this is a form of debate that must be reserved for the more specific cases. I take the floor first of all to say something about what the Central Party has of remarks in the presidency, where we do not want that change in inter-pelling debates that one has submitted from the majority of the presidency. I understand the reason that one wants more people to be able to participate within the framework of an hour and a half, which concerns today's interpellation debates, but I think it is a pity that it is taken from the interpellant and the Council of State. The reason is that interpellations may be the only form of debate we have left in the Storting that allows us to go a little bit more deep on a question, to spend a little more time both reflecting on and analysing a question from the one that interpellates. Then it's a shame that one reduces the ability to do it by going down from 10 to 5 minutes for the interpellant. The centre party believes that there is an alternative option that can also give several opportunities to participate in such a debate within the timeframe, and it is if a container has the opportunity to have 10 minutes to explain the content of the interpellant, but one says that the speaking time for the remaining speakers is 3 minutes. It has become quite common in debates, not least in the spring, that one sets speaking time to 3 minutes for the individual party groups, and that one conducts debates in this way. This could also be an organized interpellation debate, that one can hold 10 minutes to the interpellant and the Council of State, but that one leaves the speaking time to 3 minutes for the remaining speakers. Then one can also take care of what may be the most important thing in interpellation debates, namely an opportunity to have a slightly more thorough reflection on a political topic than that one gets in debates where the speaking time is 5 or 3 minutes. With that, I would like to address the proposal of the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e175	The representative of Marit Arnstad has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e180	This is an important matter. The presidency has been thorough. I'm just going to deal with some questions that the Left has its own suggestions on. One is that we, together with the Greens and the Reds, support the proposal that in the case of string changes, we set the number so that all parties can have a line. For some of the parties, this is a recurring question. There are also issues for the government – we have two questions every week – and that parliamentary leaders can have the opportunity to have two additional questions. It's about having the width of questions and having this contact with the government that might be useful for the games. So for the distribution between the committees. We have two suggestions this time, which we also had four years ago. Four years ago, the Stortinget moved regional planning from the Energy and Environment Committee to the Municipal Committee. It also moved what went on cultural memory protection from the Energy and Environment Committee to the Culture Committee. We felt that this was not right at the time, and we still believe that these should be grouped together in the Committee on Energy and the Environment. Regional planning, planning and building law are central to nature and environmental work. I think it was wrong to move the plan department from the Ministry of the Environment at the time to the Ministry of Local Affairs. What should be done in the next period is that at least the Storting should make sure that we have this together. That's how it was until 2017. I see no reason why we should distribute the global work on climate and nature, as we need, to more committees than is necessary. The same applies to cultural memory protection. In the last big-time communication on the cultural environment, it is, of course, emphasised that cultural memory protection is also a central element of climate work. Thus, there is a closer link between cultural memory protection and global climate action, and this is underlined in the communication itself. It should also be reflected in the Storting that we see climate, nature and environment in the context of spatial planning, and therefore regional planning should be included in the Energy and Environment Committee. We should also regard cultural memory protection as a central element of environmental work, and therefore cultural memory protection should also be included in the Committee on Energy and the Environment, so that the Committee has the strength and the whole that is needed. With that, I'll take up the Left's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e193	The representative Ola Elvestuen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e198	I've had the pleasure of representing the Christian People's Party on the Rules Committee. There has been an interesting work in a everyday life that the last year and a half has been very far from what is normal and that has given us new challenges. I will briefly link some comments to a couple of issues that have been particularly important to us in this work. As can be seen from Document 22 and the presidency's statement, a system of more systematic own-initiative debates will be put in place from the next part-session, where the Committees will be able to debate in plenary. We have supported this in the Christian People's Party. We believe that it could help put current issues on the agenda and contribute to increased interest in what is happening in Stortinget. At the same time, in a normal working week here in the Grand Duchy, there are only two days set aside for ordinary debates, and there are Tuesdays and Thursdays. We expressed our concern in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure that these own-initiative debates could eat out of the time we need to take the ordinary debates on matters in plenary. We note that the presidency shares that concern and that one opens up such own-initiative debates as an experimental mechanism, but one then returns to the frequency of debates. That's what we're agreeing to. Moreover, the very situation we've had in the last half of the year has made our work more and more as growth representatives on digital platforms, with the exception of what is happening in the hall. For us in the Christian People's Party, it has also been important to stress in the committee that the work of a big-time representative is here on the Stortinget, in the country's capital, and not in the sofa hook at home or in the car in a ferry queue in the West. That is why the Committee was clear that when we now go into a more normal situation, as we hope to have the pandemic reduced, committee work should also go back to normal as far as possible, i.e. that there is a requirement for physical presence. The Committee proposed to the Presidency that the Committees should apply for meetings to be held digitally and must state their reasons. There, the presidency has chosen to adopt a somewhat softer approach, where one leaves to the committees itself to decide that kind of thing. For us in the Christian People's Party, it is in any case important to stress that we believe that physical presence, not least in committee meetings, must be the general rule even though we are now going back to normal. Then four loose proposals have been put forward, from the Left and the Greens. We in the Christian People's Party warn that we will give our support to three of the four proposals. It will be reported from our group secretariat how we will vote today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e213	The Red's first breakthrough at Stortinget was to mark the 100th anniversary of the voting rights of all, who were fundamentally important to the Norwegian People's Government. I have been Red's representative both in the committee that has examined the control functions of the Storting, i.e. the Harberg Committee, and in the Regulatory Committee, which forms the backbone for today's discussion. Unfortunately, several of the Harberg Committee's proposals have already been halted by the majority of the population, and we see how specifically the Right is driving to restrict democracy, and not least the control of the Bigton by the executive, namely the government. The size control bodies have been weakened, one at a time. Even the minded Harald Stanghelle of the evening post has called for caution on behalf of the parliamentary democracy of Norway and has written that the Solberg government has strengthened its position ‘at the expense of a popularly elected magnificence’ and that it has done so through ‘new legislation, insistence on secrecy, abuse of customs and overrun of the Supervisory Boards of the Storting’. But I hope and believe that after the autumn elections a new majority will move forward with the discussions – and not least with proposals that will expand and strengthen the People's Government. Red will be at the head of this work. Today, we are dealing with Stortingen's own Rules of Procedure. In the selection of Harberg, Red was given an insight into how we should deal with both increased transparency and ensure the participation and control of the Stortinge with Norwegian foreign and security policy. The sample provided an important piece of work here. An overall selection - from Carl. I. Hagen to the undersigned – came together about assessments that I look forward to following up on conditions. It is good that the Labour Party has been out there criticising what they call a pattern of secrecy on the Stortinget, in the consideration of the Harberg Committee's report, but it is sad that a majority of the Regulatory Committee, the representatives of all parties other than the Red Party and the Green Party, and now an overall presidency is in favour of increasing secrecy on the extended Committee on Foreign and Defence Affairs, DUUFK, by making it clear that not only the content of the meeting but also the calling and agenda as a starting point are to be subject to the obligation of professional secrecy. Where the Harberg Committee stands united on the importance of public debate and transparency in foreign and security policy matters, we are relatively alone here. But it is not too late to turn around and prevent a pattern of secrecy, as the Workers' Party has so aptly talked about it in public. On behalf of the Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party, I am promoting proposals to which the Regulatory Committee and the Harberg Committee were in favour, unanimously or by a large majority. We are promoting proposals that will ensure that all party groups have access to information in dealing with issues in Stortinget, through an extended quota for written questions to the leaders of the party groups, and that all party groups have the opportunity to ask the relevant State Council questions in reply exchanges. We also encourage proposals to cut the deadline for a Council of State to respond to interpellations, to strengthen the ability of the elected representatives to put important and topical debates on the agenda, so that the debate remains topical both for the Grand Duchy and for the public, and that the Grand Hall as a political arena be strengthened. The fact that the proposal of the Regulatory Committee on a weekly debate on initiatives has met with opposition to the Presidency makes this moderate proposal all the more important. Finally, the Green Party and the Green Party promote a proposal from the Harberg Committee to amend Section 75(a) on the availability of classified information necessary for employees of the party groups. It does not alter the security clearance, authorisation and service requirements assumptions, but gives the representatives and the Committee the task of enforcing them, in the same way as the recently adopted guidelines for the Committee portals. I take up the proposals and hope that the other party groups will also follow their representatives in the Regulatory Committee and in the Harberg Committee, so that we can bring together a majority in the Stortinget behind this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e233	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e238	We have followed the work in the Hansen selection and thought it was a good piece of work that has been done. We think it's a pity that the presidency doesn't follow it all. When it comes to digital meetings, we're quite a bit of an idea, and there might be situations ahead where it's going to be highly topical. When it comes to the use of the query institute, we think different types of adjustments may be in place. When it comes to ordinary Question Time, the presidency believes that there is an order that works well. That's where I think we have different opinions. Ordinary Question Time is probably perceived by representatives I am talking to, as an arrangement that is very little considered interesting. It's very often an unanswered answer, and it's set up in such a way that one as a government council can easily get out of the situation by not answering questions directly. That is why we thought about what the Hansen Committee proposed, that one should be given a form of question that is more similar to the one we have in the control committee, where one pushes forward answers. If the Council of State only answers completely incoherently and not directly to the question, there is an opportunity to ask the Council of State to respond to it. One gets a much more confronting situation. It works well and decently in control committee work and is an effective way to get to the bottom of things. It's one way for the Storting to take care of its function, and we think it might be an appropriate model for the Question Time as well. Instead of a committee leader who takes care that things are within reasonable limits of the control committee, the president will be the one who will take care that things are within reasonable limits. There has been no problem in the control committee, and I think it will enrich the question-time institute to do it that way. There would probably also be a lot more use of the Storting, and it looks like a lot of schemes you have in other countries. So we think that might be a good solution. When it comes to the own-initiative debate, there have been different types of experiments and a little mix of experience with them, and we welcome different suggestions on how to create that kind of theme and initiative in different ways. We think it's good, but one has to be careful so this isn't going to be something that slips out, and that something that might seem like a good debate in the committee, proved not to dispel any particular involvement among the representatives in the room when it came to the play. In addition to that, we will come back to the Storting Secretariat with what we shall mean by the various proposals that have come. We haven't had time to go through them this morning, but we'll do it before noon. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e253	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e258	With all due respect for the previous speakers, I have to say that much of the Biggest amendment to the regulations is about making it easier to be a biggest representative. There are two weekly appearances to vote and the transition to digital meetings, which I'm afraid will have the evasive effect of no longer obtaining the confidentiality and cooperation that confidentiality in the committees can help with when the meetings are physical. I also think that one has gone a long way in admitting or submitting to party logic, and I do not think it is in accordance with the will of the people that some representatives should have more privileges than others. If you are committed to strengthening the position of minorities in the Stortinget, I would recommend that in the future you go on about representation rights, because they are evenly distributed and should be evenly distributed among all those who have opted for membership on different lists. What I thought I'd say a little bit about is that part of the mission – possibly the Harberg Committee – that should have been followed up by the Regulatory Committee. As regards the request decisions, it was stated in the mandate that it was desirable to consider the system of request decisions. It should be assessed whether there is a need to further regulate the form of the decision, whether there is a need to clarify the legal status of the decision-making process, whether restrictions should be set on the scope of the decision-making process and whether there is a need to make changes to the procedure for the government’s notification of the follow-up to those decisions. I'm saying this in view of the violent slippage that Frøiland was warning against in his day. I believe it was said that the Stortinget Council is very careful with these proposals, which are generated without investigation and which can unburden the government at an unfortunate moment, and also have significant adverse effects on overall planning both economically and for other areas of activity. I take it to such an extent that I think it is a pity – and I would almost say that it is a neglect of the Stortinget, who is now discussing the regulation – that the position of the Stortinget as a decision-making body and the position of the Stortinget as a funding body have not been taken into consideration. A lot of the debate is going on at the meeting technical level and how you can have a fun and dynamic debate here in the hall. What worries me is the integrity of the Storting as a case-by-case and important part of our democracy. I'll be back in a new three-minute post, because it seems necessary to have the restrictions that are now being put on this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e269	Of course, the representative is welcome to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e274	Ever since I entered the Stortinget, I have experienced the Interpellation Institute as not only useful for my own part, as a representative here at Stortinget, but also important because it gives the opportunity to ask government questions in a thorough manner, where you can build up good and longer reasoning and get complementary and good answers in a substantive debate in which both interpellant and the rest of the Stortinget can participate. Now the apparent majority is to cut the interpellation time from 10 to 5 minutes. I think that's very unfortunate. I hope the presidency will take a reconsideration and consider voting for the proposal of the Central Party today, which is about to keep the interpellation period of 10 minutes, but instead cut the speaking time of other speakers who had to sign up to 3 minutes. Today, there is a more and more hard debate with polarized statements in social media and in the public debate areas. You have a short time to discuss, and quite big things have to be brought down to a very compressed level, with a few sentences. I think that's a shame. The interpellation is just so important to be able to discuss things in a more complementary way. If you go down in just five minutes, it'll be very diluted. The argument for the presidency has been that you want more space in the interpellation debates, at least that's what I've seen. If you follow the presidency's proposals, there will be room for a few more speakers in an inter-pelling debate. If you follow the proposals of the Central Party, after the calculations we've made, you're going to have space for seven more speakers in an inter-pelling debate. It's also that during the four-year period we've been through, if I'm not completely wrong, we've had about 160 interpellations. Of them, only a few have been fully drawn, no more than a handful. That is why this is not a big problem in the first place. I hope those who are present from the presidency will take a proper assessment of the proposal of the Central Party – which I do not think has been on the table until now – before we come to voting, so that we can avoid destroying one of the most important questioning institutes we have, which contribute to substantive and informed debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e287	The best way to have a substantive debate is to get involved in matters, in a rather complicated world. I believe that the banalisation of Storting's debate is not what we need now. However, we are not doing anything about the requests. The principle of the distribution of powers shall ensure a functional and personnel division of the state power, where the demarcation between magnification, government and courts is clear. It's about different problems, but it also has to be an interaction. The government is the Executive Agency of the Grand Duchy, but is also at the head of a statutory administration which works according to general guidelines laid down in law, by the Stortinget itself. The Government shall ensure not only that the preparation of matters takes place in accordance with the fundamental principles of soundness, that there are no external or immaterial considerations and that there is no inconsistency, but not least contribute to economic coordination and a holistic approach. In practical terms, the Basic Law provides for this in the information obligation, which is stated in Section 82, and it is precisely to ensure the quality of the decision-making documents dealt with by the Stortinget. So it's a paradox that these rules don't apply to the self-created suggestions made here in the house. The quality requirements in the decision-making framework are rather absent, because the individual decisions should therefore also be suitable for making impressions on the audience. There has been a low threshold for self-marking, yet they also have an ability to impose bindings on the government and to shift the attention of the government from other and more important tasks. The session will end tomorrow. It has bid for 545 application decisions so far. Fortunately, 193 decisions have been set aside, but it has bound up the treatment capacity of the Storting. 60 requests have been adopted without being related to a case, only in the context of submissions. 240 requests are based on representatives' proposals alone, and then there are 20 requests for communications, which can be expressed verbally in terms of what they think about the government's communication. Six requests have been taken directly over the table after urgent procedure, without any adjustment. I don't think this is a democracy that usually works well with administration on a knowledge-based basis, and I also see that this distorts Storting's attention from those matters that should require great depression. I remember that the last data protection law went through as many days as the original, 20 years earlier, had taken off weeks.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e302	First, I want to say a thousand thanks for participating in the debate, it really appreciates the presidency. I'm glad that people have engaged, because it's a little boring when you do such a big job, that it's not being debated. So I thought that was very nice. First, to the representative of Tetzschner, who is disappointed that the Regulatory Committee has not followed this up with a request decision: then I would like to make it clear to the representative of Tetzschner that it was not in the mandate of the Regulatory Committee. It was very clear that we were not going to do that, because it was the Harberg Committee that was mandated. There was an assessment in the Harberg Committee of the arrangements for requests decisions, not in the Regulatory Committee. It has not been a matter for that committee, nor for the presidency, since we in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure have not considered it. What came from the Harberg Committee to the presidency was also not a request decision. So there's a debate that really doesn't belong here, although I understand that it's important and interesting. To the Central Party and this with the interpellation period: the Presidency and I, as chairman of the Regulatory Committee, have understood the views of the Centre Party very clearly, but there has been a clear majority to try to do it a little differently because there has been little interest in the interpellation debates – perhaps to have a little shorter speaking time and try to get more. It's simply an attempt to do a little bit of what the representatives Arnstad and Enger Mehl are concerned about, to get more people involved in the interpellation debates. I see what's being said about the number of minutes, that you can justify more thoroughly, but I think you can try. It is quite possible to go back if you see that this is not working. But the intention of both the Regulatory Committee and the Presidency was simply to try to make those debates a little more dynamic. To the representative of Knag Fylkesnes, who mentions this as the Hansen Committee – and I think that was almost a bit stiff. He's taking it up with the Question Time, and it's absolutely right that there was a very fresh discussion in the Regulatory Committee about doing something about the Question Time, that is, just to let the representative direct his or her speaking time. It has been problematised whether it is practicable or not. But for the future, of course, I think it's possible to assess that kind of thing in order to revitalise the debates in Stortinget. I can mention, for Stortinget's part, that the Regulatory Committee also asked for input from the press department on how the storage room was perceived from the outside, and that was very interesting input they made, because we often see that the media's interest is in the hiking hall and not here in the hall. It was important for the Regulatory Committee and also for the Presidency that we should try to facilitate the interest in what is going on in the main hall, not necessarily just on the outside. It's been important to us. Thank you very much for your participation in the debate. I see that the representative Tetzschner has signed up again, so maybe we'll have another little round.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e317	The representative Michael Tetzschner has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e322	I would like to say to Hansen that we should not be able to deal with important issues, when we have the position of the Regulatory Committee here, with the endorsement of the presidency – that is what I said was a lost opportunity. I tested this with the mandate of Eva Kristin Hansen before that, so if she had heard after in my first post, I did not criticise those lines, but only as a lost opportunity here today. I think it should also worry the Storting that the Storting does not have an overview of its own decisions. This has been illustrated by the failure to comply with the quarantine regulations of some of our leading trustees. There are so many rules that we finally go wild in them. However, even in the case of individual decisions, there are those who directly intervene in the administration’s legal handling of individual applications — where the Storting intervenes and takes over the regulatory application itself. It's also a sign that the Storing is on wild roads. And this is where the crisis in the Biggest lies, not whether we're going to have digital meetings or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e331	Just a little comment on Michael Tetzschner, who said that the undersigned did not follow when he spoke – I really did. I just wanted to point out that it was not within the mandate of the Regulatory Committee to go into the request decision, it was within the mandate of the Harberg Committee. I quote from the mandate of the Regulatory Committee: ‘The Committee shall not consider issues covered by the mandate of the sample to investigate the control function of the Grand Duchy.’;» So we weren't going to consider a request decision. That's not what was sent to the presidency either. I can inform the representative Tetzschner that there are still large parts of the Harberg Committee for treatment in Stortinget. It is then possible to take a decision on the request. It is important to be informed of this, for it is not that there has been a reluctance to discuss the request decision, but it does not belong in this position and was not in the mandate of the Regulatory Committee, even if there are important issues. It will come to Stortinget at a later date. It's important to clarify it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e344	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e361	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e378	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e395	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e402	First, I have to thank the United Kingdom and the Committee for taking the challenge of ensuring that the free trade agreement with the United Kingdom is concluded quickly and properly in the United Kingdom. I also thank the Minister for Industry, who has responded to our enquiries with short deadlines. This Agreement is important for both Norwegian and British business. Not least, it is important for the Norwegian economy and jobs. Therefore, it was important to provide rapid treatment here in Stortinget. SV does not support the conclusion of the Free Trade Agreement, but apart from there is an overall committee which supports the conclusion of the Free Trade Agreement with the United Kingdom. The hearing found that Sjømat Norway and the Norwegian Bondelag were both dissatisfied with lost opportunities under this agreement — from each point of view. Attac Norway was strongly critical. The other hearing bodies were largely satisfied and felt that it was a comprehensive, good and balanced agreement. Following the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the EU, Norway’s relationship with the United Kingdom is no longer regulated by the EEA Agreement. The EEA/EFTA countries Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein have therefore negotiated a free trade agreement with the United Kingdom since August 2020 and it was submitted to the United Kingdom for consent on 4 June. Although the agreement is balanced and good, a free trade agreement will not replace the EEA Agreement. The fact that the United Kingdom is no longer part of the EEA Agreement means that several new barriers to trade will arise and not all of them can be resolved by means of a free trade agreement. But when that is said, we are nevertheless pleased that we are there today that the agreement is in place. The United Kingdom is Norway’s main trading partner after the EU/EEA, and we rely on trade with the United Kingdom. Our trade with the United Kingdom includes more than trade in goods. The United Kingdom is among the largest and most important individual markets for Norwegian shipping services, engineering services and financial services. Furthermore, the United Kingdom is one of the most important markets for green industries such as sea wind, carbon capture and storage and hydrogen. It is good to record that the objective of negotiating an agreement which was at least as good as the agreement between the United Kingdom and the EU has been achieved. The Free Trade Agreement ensures that Norwegian goods in the United Kingdom meet the same regulatory requirements as EU goods. This is important for Norwegian competitiveness on the UK market. The fact that the agreement also ensures as good – or better – conditions as EU competitors in the UK market in areas such as trade in services and investment and public procurement is very good. Industry has been free of customs duties for more than 60 years for industrial products. This is continued in the agreement. In the case of seafood, some of us at least had great ambitions that one should now ensure Norway increased market access for processed fish products. Unfortunately, one could not do this when one enough stood in the dilemma of ensuring Norwegian agricultural products against imports. All political parties call for a desire for more processing of Norwegian seafood in Norway. It may be difficult to achieve when our processed products are met with high customs costs when they reach a limit. It is important that the Agreement ensures that customs duties and duty-free allowances to which Norwegian exporters had access before the United Kingdom left the EU are continued. This means that whole fresh and frozen cod and hay are still exported free of customs duties to the United Kingdom. Furthermore, the agreement ensures improvements for some products, including frozen plucked shrimps and frozen fillets of hay. For frozen fillet of cod we have received a significant duty-free import quota. In the agricultural sector, Norway has opted for the protection of grass-based production in the milk and meat sectors. These are products that are important for maintaining agriculture throughout the country. This Agreement does not provide for any tariff reductions or the establishment of new import quotas for beef and veal, dairy products or sheep and lamb meat. It may be worth mentioning that the concessions made on meat represent 2 per million of total Norwegian meat production and that for cheese there is no increase in quota. The agreement includes much more than what I frame up here. It is generally very good that we have a free trade agreement with the United Kingdom, which is Norway’s main trading partner after the EU/EEA.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e427	Let me start by saying that this is a major and important agreement for Norway and for Norwegian businesses, which Stortinget has treated in a short time. We should have had more time, but we should not apologize for the time being short. We want to implement the agreement in a good way. The United Kingdom is one of our most important trading partners and our largest recipient of exports from Norwegian business, which is an important area. For Norwegian businesses, therefore, it is essential that we ensure good market access when the UK has chosen to leave the EU. Essentially, I feel that the recordings that came after the agreement was presented and published confirm that this is as good an agreement as possible, and that we have achieved a realistic approach to the UK market. However, I understand that seafood farms are disappointed that Norway has not achieved better market access for processed fish, while agricultural interests are a little frustrated by the need for a new toll line to be put at the disposal of the British. In sum, the two – let’s say – frustrations basically mean that the balance point is good, but it is important that one has control over them, because there are sensitive and important businesses for Norway. This does not mean that the agreement is without challenges. For example, maritime nutrition is concerned about the challenge of increased costs as a result of the United Kingdom’s failure to maintain the veterinary agreement with EEA countries. It's an important topic. Similarly, industry will experience increased costs related to, for example, documentation of countries of origin. These are new trade barriers that we need to focus on minimising the continuation. However, these challenges are primarily a very good reminder of the importance of the EEA Agreement to Norway and to Norwegian business. The votes that have argued that we can cancel the agreement and renegotiate and create new free trade agreements have now had a challenge with the new UK agreement. That's at least our opinion. This agreement is for many different reasons a worse deal for our trade with the United Kingdom than the EEA agreement was initially. The most critical recordings of the agreement have been made with so-called freezing and scrap clauses. I have registered that some people believe that the agreement undermines our national operating space. An agreement between two parties will always be about giving something away to get something back. Therefore, there are no agreements that are initially ideal on the part of only one party. At the same time, the answers and what we have been given are a very good analysis that we do not give up control of our natural resources, public services or other interests that are important to Norway. I feel that the derogations made from different provisions reflect mainly areas where there is a broad political consensus that we should have national control, and that is very important to us. There is also reason to stress that the restrictions resulting from the agreement are essentially restrictions that we have already accepted within the EEA Agreement. The Council of State has also clarified important issues for the consideration of the Committee, but it is regrettable that we have not had a process in which we have anchored these frameworks for the agreement in the Stortinge in the past and in the course of the process. This would make the procedure much easier. There is also reason to stress that the scepticism of freezing and scrapping clauses in free trade agreements is great, and I believe that such clauses should not necessarily be – let us say – a framework around the negotiations we normally have to conduct in the area of free trade. I also believe that it will be a major and important matter for a decision to remove exceptions from the list in this Free Trade Agreement. Such changes would in practice be irreversible provided that the agreement is not terminated or renegotiated and must therefore be subject to democratic control. The size should therefore approve such changes to the listing. I think it's important to underline that. Finally, there is reason to stress the importance of this agreement for thousands of Norwegian jobs. The Labour Party shall take up one proposal, which shall read as follows: «If possible, the government requests the inclusion of 'new services' in the reservation list of the contract, provided that this does not delay the entry into force of the contract.» I ask for some correction of the proposal, so that what stood between the commas, ‘in line with the reservations of the other parties to the agreement,’ is deleted and deleted, and I hope that the Stortinge can join this proposal. I think it's important in the continuation. The reason – very briefly – is that we have received good answers, but we still believe that it is right that we can take this as part of the further work of the government in line with this agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e451	The representative of Terje Aasland then addressed the proposal he referred to, as amended.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e456	The United Kingdom has made a courageous choice by leaving the EU, in line with the will of its people. Norway has close and good cooperation with the United Kingdom, which should be developed further. The action space, now that the United Kingdom is outside the EU, must be used by Norway. Trade between our two countries is important, especially for Norway, and the Central Party is going to be a driver for increasing cooperation between the United Kingdom and Norway in the future. Today we are dealing with the most comprehensive trade agreement Norway has concluded under the EEA Agreement. The centre party believes that for business reasons we now have no choice but to deal with this matter before the summer. However, there is reason to ask a critical question related to the urgency of such a large, comprehensive and important agreement of 14 days, in particular when the agreement contains content such as: has a drastic impact on Norwegian agricultural products, and where there are clauses in the agreement that severely restrict the future political space. What distinguishes Norway is that we have open borders and little customs protection. One consequence of Norway having little customs walls is that we have little to give in negotiations. In the past, we had some tariffs that we could use in this kind of negotiation. They were unilaterally abolished by the government in the previous magnification period. The centre party is now afraid of a development in which customs protection is built down piece by piece. The agreement with the United Kingdom is now weakening customs protection for both chicken, pigs and green, and it comes at the top of the fact that imports of food into Norway are already too high. The centre party does not support the fact that in negotiations Norway always ends up giving up reducing customs duties in the agricultural sector, because we have little customs walls else. Norway has a highly liberalised service sector that is largely open to foreign service providers. This liberalisation has taken place in particular through the EEA Agreement and the WTO GATS Agreement. However, there is a great need to see what is contained in this agreement. Now it is the first time Norway enters into a trade and investment agreement containing freezing and scrapping clauses and negative listing. The center party is skeptical about what kind of consequences it can have, and whether we have a real overview of it today. The freezing and scrapping clauses and negative lists, as we now see in this trade agreement, were severely criticised when they were in the TISA negotiations. Norway has not shown that we want to protect so-called new services, as Iceland, Liechtenstein and the United Kingdom have done. The Central Party considers this to be a matter of concern. The fact that Norway has not introduced new services means that all services not included in the UN product classification from 1991, for example: before the Internet and any future services not yet invented will automatically be subject to the provisions of the Agreement. With a high rate of digitisation and artificial intelligence, new services are being created and it is completely impossible to predict how services that do not even exist now will affect society, democracy and nature in the future, and how we should regulate them in order to protect general interests. In view of the design and clauses currently in place, therefore, the trade agreement that we are entering into is a major link between the future political space and Norway. This is why the Central Party is promoting a proposal that the government should ensure that a wording is included in the agreement from the Norwegian side that allows us to regulate new services as well, and that the agreement, for our part, contains the same security mechanisms as for Iceland, Liechtenstein and the United Kingdom. Then I'll bring up our proposal. In addition, a few other suggestions have been submitted, from the Workers' Party and from SV and Red. They're going to support the Center Party subsidiaryly. A lack of agreement is that it is not consistent, and in particular what is contained in the proposal from SV and Red, which seeks to streamline the regulations, negative listing and freezing and scrapping, we believe is important to have done.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e475	The representative Emilie Enger Mehl then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e480	SV also supports proposals from the Centre Party and the Working Party. That's a good suggestion. I hope the position reads them and evaluates them strongly. There is a tendency for everything that comes from the opposition to be automatically tuned down. It's almost given comical outcomes. The most extensive trade agreement since the EEA Agreement has been said that this is, and I believe it is. The EEA Agreement was thoroughly debated in the public space. I asked the representative Lundteg for how long one actually spent in that debate in 1992. There was a lot of time. Two weeks have been given to this agreement – two weeks. We had a hearing just a little weekend after the Stortinget sent over the agreement, and there were a huge number of organisations and movements in the Norwegian community that had not even found out that it was a hearing, and had hardly got into the agreement. This is reflected in a trend in which one considers democracy to be a burden, where the people are a burden on government. When you don't involve people in the most extensive trade deal since the EEA Agreement, which is of major importance to most people, and they don't even have the opportunity to get involved in this, then we have a democratic problem. That the presidency of the Norwegian Grand Prix can benefit from such treatment, I thought it was quite shocking. The international trend in which we see democracy weakening in countries by country is likely to begin in a democracy, where different forms of technocracy or expert powers and authoritarian forces are beginning to challenge different types of democratic principle. We shouldn't be so naive and thinking that we don't have elements of that kind of development in our own country as well. This is a very good example of how a person runs over democracy, rejects an open process and just rushes it through in the Storting in an incredibly short time. In the name of democracy, we think in SV that this should be postponed, so that people can actually get involved in the agreement, that he can actually be discussed, that various important movements – tradesmanship had not even come to the conclusion that it was a hearing – can be heard. That is why we believe that there is no basis for voting in favour of the agreement and that this must be postponed. One should postpone the agreement and not vote for it. So to the agreement itself: he proposes quite new ways of thinking about trade agreements, much more regulated, using negative listing, freezing and scrapping, prohibition of performance requirements, national treatment and pre-establishment of investments, prohibition of customs duties on digital services and extensive regulatory cooperation, etc., etc. There's no one in this room who knows the scope of this, I know that. And I don't think the state council knows that. We in SV are digging into the meaning of performance requirements, i.e. being able to make demands for investments that are made from the British side in Norway. We want, for example, to build a liquid marine wind industry in this country. It would then be natural for investment to be required for performance, so that we can build up industry and industry on Norwegian premises. It'll be forbidden, it looks like, in this agreement. It's a very important tool in our work on a green shift and establishing new non-oil and gas industries. A very important proposal that comes from the Center Party applies to new services, that one integrates this – otherwise it will be liberalised for any future. I don't know what kind of a glass ball is in the government, but it's a ban on how to think politically about a welfare state, etc. in the future. And it will be carried out in two weeks, without public debate. So here we have big questions without answers, and we in SV are strongly critical of and very concerned about the way this is dealt with by the Norwegian magnificence, which is supposed to be the defender of Norwegian democracy. Here one really hasn't done the job you're set to do. I refer to the suggestions from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e501	The representative of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e506	The left has strong faith in international cooperation. Trade is international cooperation at its best. We have a strong belief that trade creates close relationships and brings land together. Trade across borders brings both well-being and peace, and this creates jobs and gives us the opportunity to exchange ideas and be part of a larger international community. Trade agreements provide for well-being, peace and freedom. We have a strong belief in commitment to European cooperation, and Norway is to be an important part of Europe. Close European cooperation is important for peace, freedom and prosperity. But there are some dark clouds in the sky. There are some ghastly countercurrents against cooperation in the world as well. Trade war between East and West is disturbing. We also note the counterflows in Europe here in Norway. Brexit is an example of what happens when national politicians use energy to blame the others and create an enemy image of cooperation because they themselves are unable to deal with challenges at home. Brexit has caused great unrest in the United Kingdom. We can only mention Northern Ireland, the relationship with Ireland, the blossoming of nationalism in Scotland, and we have looked at the news that old rivalry between British and French fishermen about resources in the English Channel is awakened to life. The UK pound has fallen significantly towards the euro after brexit and is also struggling against the dollar. Brexit is a strong warning to us in Norway that we must not frustrate it with our trade agreements. The EEA Agreement is fundamental to our economy, our jobs and Norwegian well-being. I notice that among the red-green parties – Red, SV, the Centre Party and the Labour Party, the parties that take the aim of taking over the majority after the election – three out of four parties go to the elections to cancel the EEA Agreement. This troubles me, it creates uncertainty. We should be happy that we have a good agreement in the EEA. The centre party believes that they can get a better deal with the EU, where Norway will only get and give nothing in return. Like the United Kingdom after Brexit, in such a scenario, we had thrown Norway out in long, difficult negotiations with considerable uncertainty for the Norwegian economy and for the Norwegian krona, just to reach a new agreement with our trading partners that might be worse than what we have. No, we're going to fence around the EEA Agreement and be happy that Norway is not going to go the canoeing process that the British have now gone. The agreement with the United Kingdom is important for Norway, there is no doubt about it. We need to have a good deal with the British, and we've got that. The British say that the agreement is good, but I am not so sure that it is necessarily completely authentic from the British. One of the reasons why the agreement is good for Norway – and I think it must be an important recognition in this case – is that that agreement is at least equally important for the UK. It is not that the British do not have their hands full of handling after just brexit. I remind you that three of the four red-green parties that are opposed to the EEA Agreement are going to choose to withdraw Norway from it. I would strongly urge Norwegian voters to ring the ring around value creation and the good deal we have, and not experiment with the outside world, as the British have done. The agreement with the United Kingdom allows Norway to continue to participate in a large market and to offer Norwegian quality products to the UK. I would say that this is a balanced agreement. It also showed the opinions that came after the agreement had been concluded. At the same time, I would like to say that I am a bit in the mood when the representative from SV, who would like to postpone an agreement that is now negotiated, could actually put a lot of Norwegian jobs into play. I'm going to be kind of in the mood for that, but I'm going to assume that there's a relatively thoughtful point of view from that party. Otherwise, I would also like to mention that the government parties support the Labour Party's proposal, which was promoted today. Finally, I would like to thank those who have been negotiating with the British for establishing a trade agreement. This applies to the Minister of Industry and other members of the Government. This also applies to the State apparatus, which has been on the service of Norway to secure that very agreement in port.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e527	This is the most extensive free trade agreement ever concluded by Norway, with the exception of the EEA Agreement. It is an agreement of major importance for Norwegian business. The government has made a solid political effort to safeguard Norwegian interests in the negotiations and, in particular, to ensure continued good conditions both for the seafood industry and for agriculture. In the balances around the limited quotas for duty-free agricultural products granted by the United Kingdom on the Norwegian side, it is essential to protect grass-based productions. This government stands up for the import protection of Norwegian agriculture in line with the Granavolden platform. It is absolutely essential that we should be able to have a living and active agriculture throughout the country in the future. Agriculture and land-based food production are Norway’s largest continental industry with over 80 000 jobs throughout the country. Norway, as a high-cost country with low-cultivated land and a climate and topography that is initially not suitable for extensive agricultural production, depends entirely on being able to be protected against cheap imported agricultural products from abroad. The United Kingdom is Norway’s second most important trading partner after the EU. Therefore, it was important for the government and Norwegian industry that we now have a good and well-functioning free trade agreement with the United Kingdom. It is the country in the world which receives most of Norwegian exports, and the value of these exports exceeds 22 pst. of the total exports of Norway. In addition to the large trade in goods and services, the bilateral relationship between Norway and the United Kingdom is well and comprehensive. It covers a wide range of policy areas, ranging from trade and the economy, defence and security, energy, climate, development policy, polar issues to culture, sport and education. There are about 17 000 British citizens living in Norway, and about 30 000 Norwegians live in the United Kingdom. The United Kingdom, among other things, is the United Kingdom. a very important destination for Norwegian students. Not least, the United Kingdom is Norway’s most important European military ally. The security and defence policy dimension is also a pillar of our overall bilateral relationship. In the context of the conclusion of this agreement, it is also worth recalling the close links that have existed between Norway and the United Kingdom throughout history. In 793, the monks at the monastery at Lindisfarne were attacked by Norwegian Vikings, marking the beginning of the Viking Age. There was a combination of trade and looting, with the Nordics gradually taking over the management of several areas in Scotland and Ireland. Dublin was founded by Norwegian Vikings 50 years later, and impulses from Christian Celtic culture reached our shores increasingly, through both trolls, trade travelers and mies. The Irish king's daughter Sunniva came to Norway once in the nineteenth century. Some of them then landed on the island of Kinn, while Sunniva and most of the others landed on the island of Selja, which lies in the extreme north of Sogn and Fjordane. Christianity in Norway has strong Irish and Celtic roots, and when Olav the Holy introduced Christian law on Moster in 1024, Bishop Grimkjell from England was also an adviser in incorporating a Christian basis of values and cultural views into the laws. We could mention many more connections between Norway and the United Kingdom throughout history, but the most important one is perhaps that when Norway got its own king in 1905, it was the cousin of two British kings, Edvard VIII and Georg VI, who got ashore in Oslo, the young King Haakon with his British-born Queen Maud and little Crown Prince Olav on his arm. Therefore it was natural that King Haakon and the Norwegian government sought refuge in London during World War II, when Britain stood up against the tyranny, fought for our freedom and since then has been our most important ally in Europe. Norway and the United Kingdom have strong historical ties that bind us closely, and we have a fundamental and cohesive interest in a regulated world order based on a common value base. Our two foreign ministries are now working on a joint declaration on bilateral cooperation between the United Kingdom and Norway. The declaration states that cooperation is based on a common value base and a principle of regular consultation at political level is laid down. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the government has unloaded a safe and predictable agreement for Norwegian business, not least to take care of agriculture and marine industries. The maritime industries are also well cared for. We are particularly pleased that the long links between our peoples continue through broad bilateral cooperation, including what has to do with security and defence policy. Norway and the United Kingdom will continue their good and close relations as neighbouring countries – historical, political and economic – also into the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e549	In an irresponsible short time, Stortinget has been asked to deal with the most comprehensive trade agreement Norway has concluded since we joined the EEA. During two weeks after we, as elected representatives and civil society and people else, were given the first opportunity to look into the agreement that was presented, it is to be dealt with. These very few days have been made available to people, and not least to representatives of wholesalers, for reading, understanding and analysing more than 1,600 pages of commercial legal texts. It has been negotiated in record time. There has been complete secrecy along the way about what has been on the negotiating table. So it hasn't been possible for people to move, for trade, for agriculture or for us elected people to see which parts of our society were going to debate. The agreement between the EFTA countries Norway, Iceland, Switzerland and Liechtenstein, of the one part, and England, of the other part, is controversial in several areas beyond secrecy and speed. There are controversial provisions here, so-called freezing and scrapping provisions. The freezing clause means that today's level of liberalisation of services and investment is locked in the agreement and that, for example: the withdrawal of services within the Community cannot take place. The scrapping clause, which we then know from the pipe key, which is used to tighten one way, has the function of tightening up liberalisation towards more liberalisation of services and investment, even if a democratically elected majority would like to move in a more common direction than increased liberalisation. When a number of countries, with Norway as the initiator and then Minister of Foreign Affairs Gahr Støre at the head, broke out of the WTO to enter into an agreement between the richest countries in the world on the liberalisation of the service sector, called TISA, these disputed clauses were within the agreement. That was the background for a broad democratic mobilisation and opposition to the agreement, which eventually stopped it. These clauses are, in our view, highly undemocratic. The government itself writes in the draft agreement that they have ensured that ‘future liberalisation is caught up in the agreement’, thereby ensuring that the right-wing policy is locked down no matter what democratically elected majority we should have in the future. These are new provisions, which have not been part of Norwegian trade agreements before, so they go beyond the EEA to lock permanent liberalisation. We are also going to enter into an agreement for the first time not to say which sectors are to be liberalised, but on the contrary, we are going to create so-called negative lists, i.e. to frame everything that is not to be covered by the liberalisation requirements of the agreement. If you do or lose it, it'll be said. And if we haven't listed everything we want to exempt from existing or future services, we lose the ability to decide whether this area should be under democratic control or under commercialised, privatized and liberalized. The digitisation of our society and our services makes it almost impossible to know how services that do not yet exist will affect society and our lives, and what space we want politically and democratically to regulate services for the benefit of our citizens, for the environment and for other societal reasons. We also note that new services are not included in Norway's reservation list, but included in the list of other parties. Nor have we been given access to the professional assessments made by the departments in connection with the binding lists. Red requires the implementation of an impact assessment of the agreement and an open consultation on the investigation. The investigation must provide room for renegotiation of all or part of the agreement in order to ensure that the interests of the community, of people and of the environment are placed before the interests of the companies and their profits.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e570	I am pleased with the Committee's position on consent to the conclusion of a free trade agreement between the EEA/EFTA countries and the United Kingdom. In record time, in the middle of a pandemic, we have negotiated a comprehensive free trade agreement with the United Kingdom. I am very pleased with the result. It is crucial for Norwegian industry that we can maintain and compete for market shares in one of our most important markets. This agreement provides for prolonged predictability for businesses and investors. The aim of the negotiations has been to ensure that Norwegian enterprises have equal access to the UK market as they do to EU businesses. This implies that Norway is given the same conditions as the EU in terms of both trade in services and investment, public acquisitions, food security and technical barriers to trade in goods. We have succeeded. The free trade agreement is just as good and in some areas even better than the EU-UK agreement. However, the agreement does not replace the relationship we had with the United Kingdom through the EEA Agreement. New barriers to trade will arise between Norway and the United Kingdom because we lose the dynamic development of common legislation that characterises the EEA Agreement. We have worked hard to establish a free trade agreement that covers the whole spectrum of economic interaction with the United Kingdom, and let me give you some examples. Firstly, Norwegian export companies are treated in a non-discriminatory manner with EU export companies in respect of customs procedures. Effective border control ensures that the goods do not remain on the border, which is particularly important for Norwegian seafood, which exports high-quality fresh products and which must quickly enter the market. The agreement provides for predictability for the Norwegian shipping industry operating international transport. Norwegian shipping companies and seafarers will continue to be able to provide international maritime transport services to the United Kingdom without restrictions and under non-discriminatory conditions. As the first agreement outside the internal market, the agreement provides for the possibility for Norwegians to use their mobile phone during their stay in the United Kingdom without entailing excessive additional costs. For public acquisitions, we also have a good result. The agreement gives Norwegian suppliers greater access to public acquisitions than the EU-UK free trade agreement. Last year, Norway exported fish and seafood to the United Kingdom for over 6 billion. kr. It is essential that the new agreement ensures the continuation of customs reductions for seafood. It also ensures that Norwegian seafood companies have improved market access for some and important seafood products. For industry, it is particularly important that we pass on the duty-free status of Norwegian industrial products to the United Kingdom. It is important for the creation of value added and growth opportunities for the Norwegian economy. The fact that we have achieved the most ambitious and comprehensive environmental and climate obligations in a free trade agreement is also good news for Norwegian industry. Norwegian industrial companies are heavily rusted to seize the possibilities of the green shift. The need for protection of agriculture has also been addressed. Norway has granted 26 quotas to the United Kingdom, but no quotas have been granted for beef and veal and sheep and lamb meat. The United Kingdom has also established import quotas from Norway for cheese, flowers and whey products. General reductions in customs duties on unprocessed and processed agricultural products are largely continued. Since the United Kingdom left the EU, a free trade agreement is the most important tool we have to give business, employment and students predictability and opportunities. The Government has consistently stressed that the content of the agreement should be within the commercial policy framework for which there has been broad political support in the EEA over a long period of time. We have put in place an important agreement for Norwegian business, and I am glad that Stortinget agrees.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e593	It's ready for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e598	One of the discussions that often occur when a free trade agreement is negotiated or agreed with other countries is whether we have full autonomy over important functions in the Norwegian community, for example. the production of our welfare services. One really very simple but important question in this context is: do we have full autonomy about how we choose to organise our welfare services after we have concluded the agreement with the United Kingdom?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e603	I have also recorded that this has become a debate in retrospect, after the free trade agreement was presented, and that the Stortinget has also been concerned about this, not least freezing and ratcheting in the listing of new services. My opinion of this is that we have taken good exceptions. We have made sure to ensure the necessary control in the future, which gives us that flexibility and the ability to control the development of what are important sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e608	Thanks for the answer. In extending it, one of the things you've had discussions about is the idea of new services and reservations for new services. We have made a proposal today asking the government if possible to include new services, provided that it does not delay the entry into force of the agreement. We have also asked questions about that. We've actually got good answers, but because it's hard to know what new services really are, it's to have that insurance. If we can accept this without delaying the agreement, will the Council of State – if the proposal is adopted, as I hope – ensure that it is done?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e615	It is important that the Stortinget also understands that we have chosen a slightly different model than the three other countries that negotiated this agreement. We've chosen a model that gives us greater flexibility and greater opportunities to define ourselves what we want to exempt. I think that's a good model, because we don't quite know what are the future services we want to exempt in that case. Instead of having fixed codes we have to deal with, we have the necessary flexibility. I would like to advise the government parties to vote in favour of the revised proposal for the Workers' Party, but there are some assumptions in that case. First of all, we have to understand that the United Kingdom can say no, and that there is no change in that way, even if we put forward our wish on it. Nor can we stand in a situation where the United Kingdom says yes if we have to give something that is also important to us, because then the negotiations will open up again. In that case, we will be able to address this in the technical and legal review we are now conducting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e622	Another issue that is so important is that, in a comment on the suspension, we have addressed the following sustainability issues, including working life and labour rights, and that we should establish a monitoring mechanism that includes the social partners, based on the practices resulting from the EFTA cooperation. Does the Council of State have any sense of it, and is there a thought that the Council of State will follow up? We think it's quite essential. Although this is a minority comment from only the Labour Party, we believe it is essential and important that we get it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e629	As far as this particular agreement is concerned, it is submitted to the Stortinget as it stands. I have noticed that note and the comments that have come from the Workers' Party for this, and I think these are important issues. These are issues that should be discussed in relation to specific agreements, but also on a general basis, not least in view of future agreements to be concluded. This is the most comprehensive free trade agreement we have concluded under the EEA Agreement, but we are in constant negotiations with other countries where I find that both climate and environment, labour rights and human rights are a significantly greater challenge than there has been with a country like the United Kingdom on the other side of the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e634	Despite the very short duration of the procedure, despite all the concerns surrounding the agreement, the Council of State and the Government have been very positive and spent most of their time cheering for the conclusion – while not sufficiently identifying the consequences of particularly negative listing and freezing and scrapping clauses. Does the Council of State feel confident that after a few years you won't be left with a bad taste in your mouth, when you see how extensive this is, and how much it actually limits the political space of action?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e640	I'm absolutely sure we're going to be left with a bad taste in our mouths after this, because this agreement can never be as good as the relationship we had with the United Kingdom when they were part of the EU. The EEA Agreement is our main agreement. It ensures a dynamic that a free trade agreement could never give us. The fact that we now have a free trade agreement with the United Kingdom, rather than being incorporated into the EEA Agreement, means that our business will face new barriers to trade – preventing us from seeing today, but which will arise in the future. So I'm pretty sure our business is going to get a worse situation than it had under the EEA Agreement. That being said, the situation is as it is. The United Kingdom has signed up. We have put in place the most ambitious free trade agreement under the EEA Agreement, with our own points on small and medium-sized enterprises and with the most ambitious climate and environmental chapter in some agreements we have concluded.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e649	It is true that Iceland and Liechtenstein have been given stricter wording for the regulation of new services than Norway has. It also has the United Kingdom. It is a little strange and unfortunate that we should be left with worse cards on that hand than the other parties to the agreement do. Will the Council of State try to compare itself with the other countries by engaging in dialogue with the United Kingdom, and does it believe that there is a good outcome when we have achieved less protection in this area than the other countries have?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e654	I believe that we do not have any worse protection than the other countries have in this area. We've chosen different ways of addressing this problem. The other countries have chosen a more rigid system of completely specific cases, i.e. listed on codes, while we have chosen areas and thus ensured a flexibility to define for ourselves what we want to have into this. I believe that Norway has chosen a more appropriate approach to that issue than we would if we had done it the same way as the other countries. Because we also have the necessary flexibility in the future. But now I have just recommended the government parties to vote in favour of the proposal put forward by the Workers' Party, precisely in order to also examine the possibility of the technical and legal review to address the issue, but then within the method we have used, and not the method used by Iceland and Liechtenstein.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e661	The Council of State says that one in record time has been able to negotiate, and in record time, one should do this through here in Stortinget. It's kind of a day for joy and great that one has worked and stood on. Then one of them is a part of a democracy -- one of which must suddenly start reminding government councils and prime ministers of -- who have the right to participate and to get involved in things. Delays, yes – it may be a burden for a government council that there is a people out there who are going to decide on the agreements that are being made, but that is the way it is. I simply want to be right about the Council of States can reflect a little on the democratic aspect of this agreement, where there are many unanswered questions, many of which the Committee has asked, which are not properly answered by the Department. Many open questions have not been answered. And then it's a democratic deficit that the movers haven't had the opportunity to speak. What is the consideration of the Council of State and Government at that point?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e668	Let me make it quite clear that it is not for my sake that the Storting chooses to deal with this matter in the two weeks they had at their disposal. I am not going to take a vacation with the first. I set the day when Stortinget asked me to remain silent. When you have chosen to deal with this agreement in record time, it is to give predictability to business. It is in order not to create uncertainty related to what is the main free trade agreement under the EEA Agreement. Then the Storting itself sets its own meeting program and decides when the session ends. This agreement has been negotiated in record time. We have spent less than a year on what is the most ambitious agreement under the EEA Agreement. It's done a formidable piece of work on the part of the government, from the political point of view, to get it into port, and I'm very happy that the Storting is helping to secure that predictability.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e677	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e684	As Minister of Europe Elisabeth Aspaker informed the Stortinget about brexit in the autumn of 2016, she said that the goal of the government was to have an agreement that was at least as good as the EEA Agreement. It was ambitious and – as we see – impossible. The EEA Agreement provides a basis for seamless trade on our second most important export market for both goods and services. There is no trade agreement that brings those benefits. In one area, an agreement could be reached with the UK which could be better than the EEA, namely for seafood. As you know, the EEA does not cover trade in seafood, so there is a lot of customs and quotas. However, costs would be to allow more imports of agricultural products – a traditional balance in our trade policy. So in these areas – with some slight changes – the situation as it was, in terms of quotas and customs duties continues. It has, as we have heard, broad support in this Chamber. For the maritime food industry, the trade agreement becomes a serious step backwards from the EEA period, in view of border controls. The British are no longer in the EU veterinary agreement, as we are, and then the seafood has to be checked at the border. The British promise flexibility and efficiency. We have hope that it will happen, or that they will do as they do with the EU agreement – simply looking between the fingers of the import control. One important lesson of this is that for one of our main export industries, namely maritime food, no trade agreement can fully replace the EEA Agreement on the European market – otherwise duly documented in the NUPI Marine Food and Europe investigation. The second experience both in the British and in our negotiations with the British has shown us is that the EEA Agreement protects the agricultural industry. If we were to negotiate a trade agreement as a substitute for the EEA with the EU, the cross-press we've been in with the British between our desire for market access for seafood and their desire for market access for agricultural products would be like a mild breeze to count. Although Article 19 negotiations on cheese and hortnesia may seem irritating, agriculture is nevertheless protected from cross-press. It is a much more comfortable negotiation situation. It has now realised, and they are asking us to protect the EEA Agreement. We have heard in the debate concerns about freezing and scrapping. The representative of Moxnes honored us with a little visit to that concern. His posts are based on a misunderstanding. It is primarily about avoiding discrimination between foreign and Norwegian enterprises, and it will work for our benefit in the United Kingdom. We seem to forget that part of it. As for the speed of our treatment, the British Parliament got two days, so it could be worse.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e701	When we hear the representatives of the Socialist Left Party and Red talk about it being so incredibly short, it reminds me a little about DeLillos and Next Summer, this is «old songs again». This is the exact same argument used in 1992. The EEA Agreement was referred to just before the summer, the suspension was issued in September and was adopted in October. It's not like this is happening in a vacuum. There has been plenty of time for debate while the negotiations have been going on for over a year, and it is not that we suddenly got a case, and suddenly discovered that it is something called a free trade agreement. You probably stretch the bow a little hard when you say that this goes unaccountably fast. The previous speaker also pointed out how to deal with this in the British Parliament. I am happy when the Center Party says that we have no choice but to say yes to this. We have to take business into account – thank you for that. Could you not do the same with regard to the EEA Agreement? We have to take business into account. We have to take into account where values are created. There's no sense in figuring out anything else. There's no point in creating more unpredictable things. I am also pleased when the Labour Party’s representative says that the EEA Agreement must be firm, and I hope that it applies to the whole Workers’ Party, even when they are going to enter into negotiations with the Centre Party and others who want the EEA Agreement to live – that they are not involved in investigations or other games to ‘please’ and to succeed in negotiating, and at the same time send a torpedo into Norwegian business. It's good to be happy with this agreement, but it's worse than what we had with the EEA, just like the United Kingdom experienced. They got a worse deal with the rest of Europe than they had when they were in Europe. Negotiations must be conducted, and those against the EEA Agreement must take over. If we're going to sit down at a negotiating table, the first thing that happens is that the agreement is terminated, we don't have an agreement. Then you have to sit down and negotiate with an EU that is bigger, that is stronger, and that is a much larger economic unit than the time we negotiated on the basis that we were likely to go in. We met a very willing negotiating party. We won't do that this time. We must not interfere with the EEA Agreement. It is unmistakable that we get a better deal, unmistakably. So you could say, as the Center Party likes to hear, but look at Switzerland, it's going so well in Switzerland, Switzerland is our favorite country. Yes, they have 120 bilateral agreements that are now in the back, because they don't agree. They stand today and stand against rather tough walls, and it is not given that they are able to get out of it. In any case, they do not come out better than what Norway does with the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e712	International cooperation, the conclusion of international agreements, trade agreements, is incredibly important for Norway. If there's one thing that's certain, it's that you can always trust the Workers' Party in terms of the international. When it comes to ensuring predictability in contracts, you can trust us. It is all about everything from quotas, fisheries agreements and sustainability to access. There are many things, and now we have this important agreement on the table. I agree with what many people say, that we would like to have better time for the agreement. I am also very happy that we are now having to adopt it. It's incredibly important, especially for the coast. You can also ask the fishermen about that. They are busy, who fishes Bjørn Jørgensen at Senja said when this agreement came. It's not that the agreements can ever be perfect, nor this one, but it's perhaps the best we can do for the reasons we have to deal with. They're kind of "deal" or "no deal" with a kind of deal. Today is a good and important day. I want to say that I'm satisfied with what you've been doing in the math industry. It is again important, especially for those who are on Senja, and we have reached an agreement that is good for our home, which is crucial for fish & chips in the United Kingdom. There is also a great deal of understanding that the seafood industry should have seen that we got more. It's a lost opportunity in many ways. This is now going to be more difficult than it has been, especially in view of the trade barriers that now exist with the veterinary border control, which my co-representative Svein Roald Hansen has been very clearly inside. Then I just have to say this about the EEA: there is no doubt about what the Workers' Party thinks about the EEA. There is no debate in the Workers' Party on the EEA, the EEA Agreement is absolutely firm. With a Workers' Party-led government, the EEA is also going to be stuck, because no one has it as busy as a dead fish on its way to the market. Having the agreements that we have is very important for the marine food industry. It is not that you can just get a little bit on an EEA agreement and get it a little better. You have to tell it off if you're going to get something else. And then what is the alternative? Are you going to conclude this kind of agreement with all the countries of Europe, or do you think it is possible to get something else? The EEA is not perfect, but it is the best we have, and the agreement is going to be stuck with the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e725	This trade agreement is important. That has been underlined by many, and that is quite right. But this trade agreement also differs from other agreements that Norway has concluded, because it is the first time an element of the TISA agreement is used – an agreement that was not completed, but one that was negotiated very intensely, and that we had many discussions about in this room when it happened. Then the government held it close to the chest and kept it very secret what one really wanted, even if it wasn't so hard to understand: one wanted more liberalisation. Now, one thing is that one uses the elements that give more liberalisation and that make it difficult, I would almost say impossible, to take back public governance and control over services that are liberalized. These are the so-called freezing and scrapping clauses of the Free Trade Agreement. One has actually expanded their use, and one has used negative listing in the agreement. All of this was the subject of enormous attention and resistance both in trades and in many organisations that held that debate high as long as the TISA negotiations went on. So it ended when President Trump came to power. But it's important to remember that when you choose to use these elements, and you don't have to have open source codes, you get free flow of data, and you don't want to be able to control and have democratic control over raw material data, the big global companies are getting more and more affected. We already see today that the defense has cloud solutions that the big companies own. This will prevent states and municipalities from developing digital technologies and services and building their own digital infrastructure, because the companies are then on the data. From the centre party's side, it's clear, as was said by our first speaker, that we have to agree to this agreement. But I am very sad today to note that we in Norway use these elements that we absolutely should not have included in the trade agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e736	I am pleased, on behalf of Norway, that a free trade agreement has been reached between Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway and the United Kingdom. This is not least important for the Norwegian fishing industry. The United Kingdom is a very important market for Norway and, in addition, an important trading partner. The entry into force of this Agreement is essential for the maintenance of trade links and market access. The withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the EU led to uncertainty for the fishing industry and thus for an important source of income for the nation of Norway. Through the EEA Agreement, we have had significant exports of fish to the United Kingdom, not least of fish to the iconic fish and chips of the English. The working party is a guarantor of the EEA Agreement even after the major harvest, and we can see that the EEA Agreement has broad public support. If the Norwegian fishing industry is to grow further and be an important part of our economic base, the industry must have market access. The scenes we saw at the Do Effect Centre when the transition between the EU and the United Kingdom was a fact were frightening. Enormous trailers stood at the limits for days. Fresh products, in this case fish, must be able to pass seamlessly, not least in order to maintain their quality. The agreement submitted contains veterinary checks for a period, but it is also clear that the agreement cannot replace the EEA Agreement and that in some areas Norwegian industry may be at risk of encountering new barriers to trade and poorer access to the UK market than when the United Kingdom was a member of the EU. Veterinary checks after 1 January 2022 will be a challenge. The agreement should include increased market access for processed fish products, and we must continue to work to increase the further processing of Norwegian fish and thus increase the value of our natural resources. The seafood industry is disappointed that it has failed in this area, and the Workers' Party agrees. Our attitude is that our natural resources should provide work, activity and income. That is the future goal of the Workers' Party. The agreement has its weaknesses but is necessary to maintain free trade between Norway and the United Kingdom. It may also be a good example for those who say that they can easily change or replace the EEA Agreement to negotiate free trade agreements. This is a good example of how simple it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e754	Today we adopt an incredibly important agreement for business in Norway. 80 pst. – and more often – of what we produce in this country, we produce for export. What we create, it's to be used, it's to be consumed, or it's to provide good experiences and good services in the world. Therefore, this trade agreement with the United Kingdom is so important. The North has a close relationship with the United Kingdom. Unfortunately, too much of what we export is raw materials – but aside it a little – but it is important that we have a modern trade agreement that is as good as it is on services. The freezing and scrapping clause mechanism may be difficult. We haven't used it much in Norway in international agreements, which gives us uncertainty. But I think that the negative listing that is there is extensive, perhaps more extensive than one could fear when it is a bourgeois government that has been responsible for the negotiations. But that's where I think in international negotiations we might be a little closer. Then there is no doubt that it can never replace the EEA Agreement. Without sharing regulations for these goods and services, there will be border controls. I'm sorry. The Labour Party has also been concerned about movement for people. We've written a note about students. We know that many people want to study in England because it's a simple access through the language. They do not want health care rights and would risk paying up to NOK 20 000 in visa fees and health fees if you are going to study in the United Kingdom, and we believe that it is important to try to do something about it. I remember traveling around Europe without passports at the end of the 1980s. It was probably tightened up a little during the 1990s, but it is regrettable that the world is moving in that direction, including Europe, that it has become more difficult to move across borders. That is also the case with this agreement. There is a democratic deficit when we make agreements with other countries, because then we have committed ourselves. We don't have the same freedom inside or outside the NATO alliance. The large NOU that came in 2012, ‘Outside and inside’, on Norway’s agreements with the EU, showed it to be complete, but we cannot fail to take into account what we live in this country. This is why this is incredibly important for business and for Norway, and it is a good day.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e767	There is an irreprehensible short processing time on the matter. It conflicts with sound democratic principles. The matter could have been dealt with in the next big one, but the bulk of the population won't have it like that. One's just running. Under the heading of trade and investment, the government writes in the proposition: ‘The non-discrimination obligations, including market access, national treatment, performance requirements and best-practice treatment, ensure Norwegian service providers and investors equal treatment with UK service providers and investors by binding current market transparency in the agreement in addition to capturing future liberalisation into the agreement [[so-called freezing]] [[so-called rattles]] This regulation on trade in services limits policy, i.e. the Greatness, space for action and also threatens local democracy. The freezing and scrapping clauses contained in trade agreements prohibit inter alia: recommuneration. The agreement will reduce the scope for political action, inter alia: providing benefits to small public or non-profit actors in front of large multinational companies, or requiring local only to offer specific types of services. So this is a weakening of the rule of the people. The representative of Skelstad spoke of protectionism. Skelstad and others are not talking about why we get a harmful and negative protectionism around Europe. In my opinion, the main reason is that people elected in the countries are getting less and less power. They get less power. The Community is being neglected, and people are reacting to the system, and then it turns into a right-wing protectionism that does not have the support of the Centre Party. What has the support of the Centre Party is to give greatness, the elected people, more power, so that they can make the necessary balances at all times in line with the interests of the community and thus ensure that such movements do not grow. Therefore, the central party parole is that Norway should be different from the other country which is not seaworthy enough. We're going to have a view of the world, but we're going to have a government in Norway that's getting more important. Therefore, the Magnitude becomes more important in the next period. That's why it's more important who's being elected to the Stortinget. Therefore, it becomes more important for the Storting to take greater power to govern market forces and the content of private ownership. Interestingly, the Workers' Party is not part of the 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e783	There are too many questions without answers that it is possible to vote for the agreement today. That's why we're proposing a postponement. It's especially that when a celebration that one has made an appointment in record time, spent for a year to prepare it, and in two weeks it's going to be treated and passed through in the Storting, then a largely non-intrusive note of the democratic deficit it represents. Here is a power in the Greatness of the People, and then one doesn't see that one is also a defender of the people's right to be heard, involved, and not least the significance of the public debate. Experts are always wrong, the people are always wrong, and politicians are always wrong. The whole point of democracy is that when a broken opinion – that's when the best decisions come. Here is a cut-off democratic debate – very effectively cut off a democratic debate. One could have suspended the processing, one could have put up for public debate and involvement. But one has chosen not to – one has actively chosen not to – and that is what worries me so much in this matter. It is confirmed by all the posts where one jumps over the democratic deficit in this matter. It'll be confirmed by it. The turmoil that is in me, and that I believe is in many, is that one looks at the people and democratic participation more and more like a clinging about the foot. Oh, this caring people! One would have preferred to have them in addition, a nearly right might say between the lines when a thundering thing like this goes through in the Storting. Then there's a really wild road. And then it's the dimension that has to do with the scale. It was interesting that the government is now recommending to vote in favour of the Workers' Party's proposal to include new services in the agreement. For it has been a question that has been asked by the Committee, from among others. The Labour Party of the Council of State, but one has not received a proper answer to where it came from not including new services in the agreement. So now we're going to have one of them. It's just as if you've just forgotten about it, that it's a caretake. So the small room one has had of democratic treatment in the Storting, which in itself is not enough to call it a democracy, has helped the agreement to include something as fundamental as new services in the contract text. As the representative of Navarsete was involved, we know how close the Norwegian negotiation processes are. There are no positions open, we can't see. The size is not involved in any way, but all of a sudden an appointment just needs to be signed. - No, this doesn't believe!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e798	Let me first thank the Committee for the cooperation we've had in the last six months, not least in the special period of the pandemic that we've been through. The freezing and scrapping clauses are several that have taken the floor to talk about. I also want to say some words about it. These two clauses work together and mean that countries cannot introduce greater exceptions to the principle of non-discrimination than those resulting from the legislation in force at the time of the conclusion of the agreement. This applies unless a reservation is made against such non-discrimination. Thus, there is full opportunity to exempt sectors or different regulation from the freezing and scrapping mechanism, where there is a desire to maintain political scope to discriminate against investors and service providers from the United Kingdom. Norway has taken a large number with the exception of the freezing and scrapping mechanism to ensure this necessary space for action. We have e.g. except hospital services, social welfare services and public education. We also have storecut sales of alcohol and tobacco. This means that the authorities can deregulate and then tighten that market, without the scrapping mechanism standing in the way. I would also like to stress that the parties initially have access to regulate activities carried out in their respective countries. I would like to stress that there has been broad cooperation between the departments on this part of the agreement. But then I'd like to draw out something that there hasn't been so much talk about in the debate so far. This is the first agreement concluded by Norway with a separate chapter on small and medium-sized enterprises. The desire to facilitate these, too, to take advantage of the opportunities offered by this agreement, seems to me to be worth mentioning from the Parliamentary Chair. It is also the most ambitious free trade agreement in climate and environment. This is something we go into other free trade agreements with, precisely because we have reached 2021, and climate and environmental issues are more important than ever. Finally, I would like to say that I think it is a bit of a prudence that those who are most critical of this agreement are those who are opposed to the EEA Agreement. But this is the alternative to the EEA Agreement. Such free trade agreements, such processes, such discussions are what these parties want with every country in the EU. The result will always be worse than the EEA Agreement is able to give us. I am very pleased that we are now getting a broad majority behind what is the most important and ambitious free trade agreement under the EEA Agreement. It means an incredible amount to business, to value creation and to our future welfare society.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e813	To the debate on time: I think everyone would have liked to have a week or two or three more to deal with this matter, but it's not the time that initially determines whether it's a democratic process or not. It is we who are the national assembly of the country and who are elected politicians. We have to take responsibility for the role we have, and say either yes or no to the agreement. That is the reality – difficult and complicated. Free trade agreements are not a single theme in themselves. This agreement is a very strong reminder of how complicated it is to negotiate free trade agreements, and it should be a cross of thought for those who want to terminate the EEA Agreement and conclude free trade agreements instead, because it is complicated, that is, we are not ourselves enough. We are one of the countries in the world that is perhaps the most dependent on the outside world, and that the outside world initially commits to us. That's what we're doing through this agreement. It is quite clear that it is not ideal – from a simple point of view of yourself – for an agreement commits. That is the purpose of agreements – that they commit. I would like to remind you of one more thing: Based on the democratic control and the role of the Storting in this matter, we are now entering into an agreement, but we can start on the first day a new expansion is coming together, cancel the agreement. It's the elected court, it's the duty, and it's democracy. We can choose to do that if it's not the way we want it to be. I think this agreement is going to be a lot of focus in the future, because it means so much to us. It's our most important exporter we're talking about, so if it doesn't work as intended, we'll have continuous discussions related to it. I hope that new services will be accepted as an exception also for Norway, but I think, on the basis of the agreement as it stands, and with what the government and the Council of State have responded to the Storting in terms of protecting our own welfare production and what it is essential that we do in public terms, that it responds well to important questions. I should have liked to have a week to deal with the matter, but I believe that it is perfectly sound and fully correct that we agree to the agreement today, and I am pleased that the Workers' Party can also have a majority in favour of the proposal we have made.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e826	‘Time’, said the representative of Aasland. Yes, we should have had more of it, but it was now what we got. This is a complicated agreement. Our country has 5.5 million inhabitants, while the United Kingdom has almost 67 million inhabitants. Yes, there are several people who have now seen how easy it is to negotiate trade agreements. It can be seen that the EEA Agreement was and is a good agreement with the rest of the EU. Even the Lander is clear that they want us to protect the EEA Agreement. Together with the rest of the business they want predictability. The fishing industry is, as Ingelill Olsen said in a very good way from this pulpit, also from that perception. On the other hand, what I doubt a little after hearing the representative from Lundtägen is how much the guarantees from the Workers' Party apply if they have to choose. I'm probably a little bit more uncertain about that. The representative Lundtigen, who is clear that he is against the EEA – something that is not signed – is very clear about this with the weakening of the regime. Four years ago, in this Chamber, we discussed the national up and down – municipal merger and vice versa. Then the same party, that is, the Center Party, was perhaps the most eager of all when it was about something that really has little to do with the rule of people, namely inter-communal cooperation arrangements. But when we move into Europe in this room to make good agreements with other countries, which are many times bigger than us, it is irresponsible. Although the signatories agree with Lundtägen in parts of his view of the EU, we strongly disagree with regard to cross-border voluntary cooperation. Alone, I don't believe in creating any more growth and predictability for business. Obviously, that lonesome wants the Center Party. If they come to the taboos for the autumn, it will be exciting to see what this is like – if the Workers' Party is the guarantor of the EEA, which you start to doubt in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e835	The representative Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e840	SV is for free trade agreements. The question is how they are developed. When the right side of Norway negotiates with the right side of the United Kingdom, even the Labour Party should be on guard. This is not a yes/no matter. We've just seen an example of that. Governments have opened up to include new sectors in this agreement, and it opens up to ensure that the whole list is consistent. That means that if you fill in the list properly, this might be a good deal, but we don't know that now. We don't know the scope of this. This is a less extensive agreement than the EEA. That's good, but then it's the extent of this, what's on the list, what's forgotten from the government side, and what's intentionally omitted from the government side, that's the political sides of this. That is what we are considering today. Therefore, it is necessary to have a better time to review the agreement and come up with a more comprehensive list to protect democracy and not least to include democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e847	I would like to join all those who have said that it is good for us to deal with this very important agreement with the United Kingdom before the summer. I think, as Mr Aasland said, everyone understands that it would have been good if you had had more time, but it was as it turned out. We have had a thorough democratic process, and it is important for Norwegian businesses that the agreement is in place. I also want to stress that there is no doubt whatsoever that the Workers' Party is a solid guarantor of the EEA Agreement. The EEA Agreement is the basic plan in relation to our most important market, and that market is becoming no less important, but more important, not least when we are going through a green shift, where we see a massive commitment to what in Europe is called 'Europe's green giving', which is not only a climate plan but also an industrial development plan. When Norway is gradually going to export less oil and gas simply because there is a lower demand for oil and gas, at the same time, we are going from being a commodity exporter to much more being involved in complex industrial value chains. They will mainly take place either in partnership with EU countries or in partnership with the United Kingdom. Then the contract work we have now is even more important than it was in the time we're on our way out. It turns me on and on that some of the parties that are most eager to fight against the EEA are also very concerned that Norway should take good positions in these new markets. I agree. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and SV agree on an active industrial policy for the green shift. SV has created its own green give, inspired by the EU. However, if you read it carefully – as I have done – you will have to read all the goods to Europe. That's where the market is. Then I think it's a good idea to have a predictable relationship with that market, because it's not about finished goods in a very traditional sense. There are goods to be included in complex value chains, much more than we've been used to until now. I think we actually go into a time when the difference between EEA and membership is greater than it has been, because the world is not moving towards more transparency and free trade – unfortunately, I would say. The world is moving towards more regionalisation and more geopolitical competition in trade policy as well. It is not a free and open market outside Europe that awaits us, as it should be. I'm sorry, but it's a truth, and the trend is clear. It is therefore more important and important that we both take care of the EEA and, where we need it, perhaps continue to supplement the EEA with supplementary agreements, for example. which brings us closer to intervention also in the field of industry and the economy of the EU’s greens. This is an essential part of the innovation in the Workers' Party on the state, the market and a more active industrial policy. It is simply impossible without at least having an EEA agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e860	The centre party shall be responsible for trade agreements. That's our whole tradition. We stand for negotiating trade agreements with authority. Norway has good negotiating cards, but it is incredibly important what kind of attitude the Norwegian government is negotiating trade agreements. This government has one view. The government that negotiated the trade agreement in 1972, with Jens Evensen as a central person, had a different attitude. What attitude does the government have, with its basis in Stortinget? That's the crucial question. Welfare production in Norway is fundamental to the welfare society. The centre party is quite clear that public and non-profit actors are the basis, and we want to dampen the commercial, the listed welfare actors. Then we have to have the authority to do that. The EEA Agreement or the freezing and scrapping agreements weaken the Stortinget, a given authority. The power of greatness is not replaced by supranational elected bodies. They are not replaced by supranational elected bodies which can be replaced by elections. No, they are replaced by market forces, and they are replaced by court proceedings in the event of conflicts. Is it strange that people react? That makes sense. That's absolutely right. Therefore, the role of the Central Party is that the reactions must be shaped into a democratic track, not as protectionism, which is right-wing, but the democratic track for which No to EU-general Kristen Nygaard in his time stood as an exponent. I feel very well. The centre batch is a production batch. We're a party that creates values before we use them. We're not the party of consumption. We need revenue before we have expenditure, but then we need an industrial policy based on what is Norway's assumption. The Stortinget must then have the authority to lay down framework conditions in order to obtain profitability for the business we want. In that case, a non-compulsory iron such as an EEA Agreement or other obligations shall be provided. These are questions all parties should discuss, together with the labour market policy. There's so much fun talking about having full employment and fighting against unemployment. One is not allowed to do so unless the Stortinge has the ability to control the labour market. We're about to have a real discussion about the logical contexts. We need to have a discussion about system criticism, otherwise the reactions will increase, because the amputation is increasing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e873	We are beginning to approach the end of the debate, and I would like to thank everyone who has taken part in the debate for participating in the debate. There has been a short time on the matter, but we see that there has been good participation from the Storting in the debate here in the Chamber today, and that is very, very important. I think what we're now looking at with this agreement is that it's not as good as an EEA agreement. I hope that we will take it with us in the debates and discussions ahead. The EEA Agreement must be suspended. We must not – I have used the word ‘meat’ in the past, sorry – do something wrong with the EEA Agreement. All of us have to hang around the future. For this in time and democracy. Yes, it is a democracy in the Great Britain today. We are very many who are in favour of the conclusion of this agreement, there are only a few who do not agree. We respect that. That's the way it is in our democracy. Now we have an agreement that is good for all of us. We're making sure that we get the agreement, which is good for business, which is good for the jobs, and which is good for our relationship with the United Kingdom in the future. Thank you for the debate, everyone, and good summer!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e887	The representative of Terje Aasland has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment of up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e892	I wonder what is really the view of the Centre Party in this matter. It's a little serious. Firstly, this agreement does not change Norway as a welfare country. It does not change our ability to maintain strong public services, nor does it change the Workers' Party's ambition to stop the privatisation of public services after the election, important welfare services such as: hospital services. On the contrary, it is a good basis. It is not the case that the EEA Agreement is a coercion. The EEA Agreement is initially a regulated dance floor offering Norwegian business and Norwegian people to use it, acting on it and following the rules associated with it. I am a little surprised at how far some representatives go in their mention of this Communication, and insofar as other agreements that have already been concluded, which are essential to Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e897	I was inspired to remind the representative Lundtigen that the Central Party will vote in favour of this agreement, at least if they vote in line with the vote. You could get the idea that the opposite was the case, but if someone were to be in doubt, that's how it exists right now. The representative, Mr Lundtigen and I agree a great deal, although there are shades in our view of relations with Europe. One of the things we have agreed on and agreed on for many years is that it is important that we take care of Norwegian agriculture, and that it requires both a significant level of support and solid customs protection. That is why we have jointly strengthened customs protection. I am very proud that I agreed to introduce an increased ostetoll that has meant a lot to Norwegian milk producers. As Minister of Foreign Affairs at the time, I took the fight in Brussels against EU Commissioners who had read the EEA agreement worse than I did, and who thought it was a breach of the agreement, but it was not. We won, and we got no penalties against us, because we had the right to do this because of the way the EEA Agreement is linked. The EEA Agreement protects Norwegian agriculture in a way that free trade agreements could never do. What this agreement has given a small taste is precisely the dilemma that arises if you really want to deal with Europe through free trade agreements. This gives rise to the irrevocable dilemma of choosing between offensive and defensive interests — fish and agriculture as an example. That's irrevocably true, and that's always a problem, because the counterparty will demand counter-performance where we want more access to the market, by getting more access to the market where we don't want to give it. Then you either get a bad deal, or you have to choose. As at that time quite young State Secretary, the first time I was in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs under Thorbjørn Jagland and Jens Stoltenberg's first government, I was asked if I could be broken by trying to coordinate the interests of the Ministry of Fisheries and the Ministry of Agriculture in the WTO negotiations. That's what I found out was a demanding job, and I think they're still working on it in several departments, including the Ministry of Economic Affairs. This shows just the dilemma that we have and that has been solved in the EEA Agreement in the favour of agriculture, because it gives the rest of Norwegian industry safe access without constantly having to compensate on the agricultural side. I believe that not least those parties that pretend to be close to the agricultural sector should take a little more seriously. I am aware that this is a position that is quite well understood in important agricultural organisations, that the EEA Agreement is perhaps the best one has if you actually evaluate the alternatives out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e918	I heard the representative Lundtigen say that the Central Party is in favour of free trade agreements. That's a lot possible, but I'm just wondering if the Center Party understands what a free trade agreement is. It's like taking a whole country's gross domestic product, putting it into an Excel sheet, and then you start negotiating lines down on products and services about how you can regulatedly interact between two nations. This is what we're getting rid of with the whole EEA agreement. It has been successfully negotiated. This means that we have a friction-free access to our most important and largest market. As the Council of State also said, if we have challenges with this free trade agreement with the United Kingdom, this is the scenario we would have had to go through if we were to negotiate with all countries directly in the EU and also with the rest of the world. It is then considered to be deviable when Lundtigen says that he will give Norwegian companies, organisations and non-profit foundations the advantage of public procurement. Then why can't we just do that? What the EEA Agreement requires of us is simply equal treatment of competition on equal terms. What Lundtigen really calls for is that nation states should be able to discriminate against foreign enterprises. What would happen to the Norwegian export industry, which exports for 773 billion. do and create values and jobs here at home, if other countries would behave against foreign enterprises such as Lundtigen would like Norway to act against foreign enterprises here? It is as if the United Kingdom, Germany and France were able to discriminate against Norwegian companies in order to give priority to their own. So the centre party is gambling 773 billion Norwegian kronor, Norwegian companies and Norwegian jobs. They say they are in favour of free trade agreements, but which countries will have free trade agreements at the Central Party's premises? We would not have had agreements between any countries around the world. The EEA Agreement is the agreement that ensures a level playing field for Norwegian companies in our largest and most important market. I also believe that the EEA Agreement is much more than just a market. It's primarily a community of values. The current free trade agreement, which is this debate, ensures regulated access to the United Kingdom market. It is a very important agreement for Norway, and the parties voting for this agreement today are the parties that ensure Norwegian jobs and Norwegian value creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e931	I have sat and followed a little. I have to say that it is the Storting that decides and has to decide, that is what we in this Chamber have to decide. In the past we have talked a lot about that we need more jobs, we have to be able to create more jobs. One point here is that we didn't make it on fish, it didn't make it that good, we don't get it the way it is now. When I get to Finnmark, go to Berlevåg, Båtsfjord, Mehamn or where it should be: No, we didn't get it, it didn't get good enough, you probably just have to see the fish go by, it's still going to be produced elsewhere than with us. That's right where it is. Why can't we get it done? They say we have so many jobs – 15 000, isn't that what we have in fish? We could have doubled this, obviously we have to. We have to get more production of what we have ourselves, so that people in Berlevag and other places get it done. It is said that no agreement can be better than the EEA agreement was. I'm very uncertain about it. At least it has not led to so much good things around the arrangement that we have in Finnmark. We see that there are more and more people moving because there is not enough work around the raw materials we have. It is run for production elsewhere. 15 000 jobs could easily have doubled, and that would have meant an incredible amount to Finnmark. So you say we have to agree, we have to go on, we have to sign this agreement and get it in place. The working party says we can renegotiate it. In the big meeting we can renegotiate it if that's what it's about to do. I hope that's the case. For the most important thing for the Workers' Party, according to the last posts I have heard, has been to create more jobs. Then we'll all have to take care of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e940	After listening to this debate, one can get the impression that Norway is the only country that stands up for its own interests in negotiations with other countries, that Norway has nothing to offer to other countries, that others have no interest in trading with us, and that we should only be grateful for being part of the outside world, about. But I think everyone can agree that Norway and the United Kingdom have a mutual interest in our trade relationship. We have a mutual interest in a trade agreement. In the same way that there have been demanding negotiations for Norway, there are also demanding negotiations between the United Kingdom and other countries when they are to conclude their agreements. The protection of agriculture has been incredibly important for the centre party. The government has protected parts of agriculture but has opened up increased imports, which will go beyond Norwegian agricultural jobs in areas such as poultry and pigs. If you look at free trade agreements that the United Kingdom has with other countries, you can see that the British are also interested in protecting their agriculture. For example, they have now agreed with Australia on a new free trade agreement. It also took a long time to reach agreement, because there was a disagreement about agriculture. But the disagreement, where the matter was being debated, was that the British feared that if the Australians had increased access to exports to the United Kingdom, it would threaten British beef production, just as the Centre Party has been concerned that imports of beef into Norway from the United Kingdom would threaten Norwegian meat production. Australia has allowed the use of some sprays and growth-promoting hormones which are not permitted in the United Kingdom and which allow farmers to produce meat at a lower cost than they can in the United Kingdom. Ergo will outrun British workplaces. This is not unique to Norway. With regard to the EEA Agreement, one can get the impression that this is a completely trouble-free agreement and that there is no single problem with it. That's wrong. For example, the Joint Undertaking has called for an investigation of the agreement because it is difficult to live with. The LO has asked for greater use of the right of reservation because EU rules make it impossible for us to take action against social dumping. In the Workers' Party, opinions are shared, and it is clear that the most friendly EU combat weapon has been sent into the main hall today. But fortunately, it does not reflect the opinions of this room or the opinions of the population. The resistance to overrun from the EU is great out there, and it takes the Central Party seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e951	I cannot leave it undisputed when the representative Adelsten Iversen indicates that we did not get anything more on fish. I hope the representatives understand that when you negotiate, it is about giving and taking. What we've done now is we've managed to keep the import protection of agricultural products. If we were to get more on fish, we would have to give more on agricultural products. So when the representative goes back to Finnmark and is worried that we got too little on fish, he has to remember that there is a reason for that. That's because you've protected the agricultural products. But we've only given 2 percent of Norwegian meat production in these negotiations. It's important that we have it with us. So when you travel around telling us that we didn't get any more fish – we would like to have more fish – you also have to take along the whole story of why you didn't get more on processed fish products. It's important.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e958	I'm sorry to have to extend the debate, but it was the unusually illogical contribution of the representative Adelsten Iversen who made me speak. The centre party will vote in favour of the agreement, as I understand it. Adelsten Iversen says the agreement is too bad, that's okay, but at the same time he argues against the EEA agreement, which is actually better than this agreement. It's totally illogical. I live in the same area as Adelsten Iversen. It is not possible to say that it is because of the EEA agreement that people move from Finnmark. We're a fishing zone. We are dependent on the EEA Agreement. We have to have market access. We must realise that we are a small country with a little over 5 million inhabitants, who need an agreement with market access to the large European area. I'm glad we have an agreement with the United Kingdom. It's a shame we haven't gotten to absolutely everything, but we have to give to get something. We should have had even better access for processed products, I'm the first one to say something about, but we're going to balance, not least in relation to agriculture. We are interested in that, and we want that in this Parliament. But we can't be as illogical as what comes out here. If you can't live with this agreement, which is actually worse than the EEA agreement, it's hard to understand how the Central Party can vote for it, but I hope they do.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e967	At the bottom of this debate, I find it necessary to say on behalf of the Right that this agreement is concluded in good faith. This means that we are actually going to fulfil the purpose of the agreement and maintain and base cooperation and trade with the United Kingdom on the terms of the agreement. I feel the need – after hearing the contributions from Lundtigen and Adelsten Iversen to the contributions from Enger Mehl – to ask if it is actually the intention of the Centre Party, whether this agreement is actually concluded and voted in good faith for it. Because it has been said here that one really believes that the Storting should be able to test all the elements of the agreement on its own. It has been said here that the agreement is not good enough. It has been said by Adelsten Iversen that the agreement should actually be renegotiated in the autumn. At the same time, we must vote in favour of the agreement. When two partners agree on something, at least from our point of view, the intention is to actually keep what is agreed. The idea that's being created here from the Center Party is that you haven't thought to do it. You're going to try to change this unilaterally all the way. It's the impression that's left when Adelsten Iversen and Lundtigen speak. It may be okay, then, when I see that Lundtigen has signed a short note afterwards, to clarify: Is it so that the Center Party today votes for an agreement they intend to hold, or an agreement they intend not to hold or change on their own if they get the chance to do so? I don't see that as a serious approach to this very serious question. You have to be aware that our partners also listen to what we say when we are going to conclude such agreements. It is important for me to stress that we enter into this agreement in good faith. No one has forced us to make this agreement. We have voluntarily addressed what is contained in the agreement. We want to achieve what the agreement contains. If this agreement is unbalanced in any way, it's this: that we get access to a market of 64 million people and customers under the same conditions as our contract partner gets access to a market of 5 million. This is a really great advantage for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e980	The representative Per Olaf Lundteg has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e986	The centre party is for trade agreements. What we are pointing out is that the EEA Agreement and free trade agreements, which involve the freezing and scrapping principle, reduce the freedom of action of the Storting. We vote in favour of the agreement. We're on the deal. But we point out what is the democratic problem of the agreement. The representative of Aasland calls for the Workers' Party to want welfare services that are public and ideal and not commercial and listed – very well. Then we agree, and then we have to fight for it. It is no wonder that the government is involved in the Workers' Party's proposal where one asks the government to 'include if possible', because it is the government that defines what is possible. But the important thing is what Aasland said. Barth Eide is an EU member. He says that an EU agreement is bad for agriculture. What's the matter now is the EEA and the WTO, and Barth Eide has now become a spokesman for using the space of action we have. That's excellent, I'm glad to see that, and that's positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e995	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e1012	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes per party group and 5 minutes per government member. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to five rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to 3 minutes on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e1019	Retirement continues to be complicated — both for individuals to understand and to seek broad political agreement on. This call for proposals is about the regulation of pensions and the income ratio of pensioners, and it is also a follow-up to the follow-up of several decisions taken in connection with the representative proposal 53 S for 2020-2021. The regulatory model underlying the regulation of old-age pensions was introduced in 2011 as part of the broad agreement on pension reform. Until now, annual adjustment has been made with the expected wage growth for the regulatory year adjusted for any deviation between expected and actual wage growth in the last two years. The figures have been reviewed and discussed with pensioners, organisations of the disabled and workers before the total wage growth was established. The old-age pension during payment has been regulated with the salary increase less 0,75 pst. The Committee refers to the requirement for organisations to change the regulatory principles for current pensions primarily similar to wage developments, subsidiary to actual wage and price averages, in order to prevent pensioners from falling in line with others. This has been proposed several times by the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, but has not yet received a majority. In the budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Progress Party on the State Budget for 2021, it was agreed that an average of the price and salary growth would be applied to the old-age pension paid by the population in 2021 if employees were estimated to have a positive real growth rate, and not lower than the employee if the real growth rate for the employees was estimated to be negative. Overall, this implies that current pensions are to be regulated by average price and salary growth, but not higher than wage growth. In addition, it was decided that the minimum pension level, specifically the same rate, would be increased by NOK 5000 from 1 July 2021. The government has followed up the decision to discuss other issues relevant to pensioners, but some organisations have stated that it was unclear how negotiations on other issues should be conducted in these social security discussions. The Ministry will therefore engage in dialogue with pensioners’ organisations in order to establish quarterly meetings between the government and pensioners’ organisations where matters relevant to pensioners can be discussed. The majority of the Committee's recommendations I to IV, consisting of the Right, the Advance Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party, have chosen to join several demands from the pensioners' organisations in order to lead the social security system by 2022. An overall committee endorses the Committee's recommendation V. In February the Stortingen decided to introduce a compensation for social security payments in 2020, corresponding to the difference between salary increases less than 0,75 pst. and regulation as an actual average. When the decision on compensation was taken, an estimated wage increase of 1.7 p.m. was made. And the price increase of 1,1 pst. And the new method would give more. The regulation of pensions during payment is then done by calculating an average of this growth in the basic amount and the price increase, as explained in Prop. 126 S for 2020-2021, which Stortinget joined on 27 April 2021. In addition, an additional growth has been introduced to ensure that the level of regulation is exactly the same as the level of pensions if the new regulatory regime had been introduced as early as 2020, in line with the Storting decision and leadership. Today's loose proposals make the bulk of the population really go back on their own and choose the outcome of the old model. The pension agreement provided for a predictable, long-term and enforceable regulation, not that one could choose the model according to what gave the best payoff in some years, as at least I believe today's solution makes. This short-term unforeseeability undermines the entire premise of the pension settlement, but I guess the parties behind the proposal will better explain it. I'll come back to the Right Party comments in a separate post.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e1040	First of all, thank you to the President-in-Office for a thorough work, as usual. So to the case: 16 February 2021 dealt with Stortinget's notification of the social security settlement for 2020. Now we're left here and we're going to deal with the social security plan for 2021, just four months after the previous one. It is because of the joyous fact that the Workers' Party has finally had a positive impact on its repeated proposals since 2016 that the social security settlements should again be dealt with in the spring session of the Storting, after the Solberg government – then consisting of the Right Party and the Advance Party – stopped sending the settlements to the Stortinget on its own keel and to everyone's surprise. We're talking about the income of about one million people, and the number is increasing. It is such an important matter that the Storting must have a word in the team. At the same time, we see that the number of active persons per pensioner is falling. The Labour Party remains committed to the reform of the pension system and continues to believe that the reform was and is necessary to ensure that the elderly live on a pension, including for future generations, and we believe that predictability is important. Retirement is not suitable for frequent changes. At the same time, we must constantly be willing to look at improvements in order to correct social imbalances and injustices. It's not fair when pensioners go into minus while others go into positive. Nor was it the intention of Storting. It is therefore gratifying that after several years of negative settlement for the pensioners, we have finally had an impact on the Workers' Party's repeated proposals since 2017 on new regulatory principles, as the actual average of wages and prices. The government and the Progress Party have finally turned around. It had hardly happened without constant pressure from the Workers' Party, the trade union movement and the pensioners' own organisations. If they had been adopted in 2017, an average pensioner today had had approx. NOK 20 000 more to go with this year. So how to influence new regulatory principles on the basis of the social security settlement for 2021. Surprisingly, there has not been an agreement between the government and the organisations. The government has established a 3.58 p.m. settlement framework. Organisations have required the frame to be 3,83 pst., including the usual correction for updated salary development figures from Technical Calculation Committee. The working party here supports the requirements of the organisations. When we adopted new regulatory principles four months ago, it was expected to be another minus settlement for the pensioners. Therefore, on a proposal from the Workers’ Party, Stortinget decided that the new regulatory principles should apply retroactively from the settlement for 2020. Now, the figures show that the trend in wages in 2020 was much better than what was then known. Therefore, following the decision of the Storting slavishly will be a disadvantage to pensioners and provide a worse settlement than if the regulation for 2020 is made after pay minus 0,75 pst. The decision in Stortinget was intended as a compensation for an alleged poor settlement in 2020, and it was the opposite. The size does not tend to take decisions retrospectively to the detriment of those concerned. The working party sees no reason for us to start with it in connection with a social security settlement. Once the assumptions have changed, the Labour Party considers that only one must disregard this Decision. The working party put proposals of 650 million in line with this and in the usual way. additional to the establishment of social security in the revised budget. Our surprise was when we were previously contacted by the media this week because the Progress Party had contacted them and claimed that the Workers' Party did not support the organisations' demands for increased frameworks for social security settlement, contrary to what we had actually done. Pension is a policy area that is very bad for political games and spins. One should at least be despicable in what one claims. The Labour Party still believes that the formal truth is that whoever proposes more money must also have budget coverage for it. But in order to help the Progress Party out of the trouble they themselves have put themselves in by promising the pensioners more than the government without having budget coverage, we have – along with the Centre Party and SV – taken our proposals of 650 million. kr more for the social security scheme for 2021 out of the RNB and added them as a solution to the proposal for the social security scheme message in 2021. We have not done this for the sake of the Progress Party, but for the sake of the pensioners, so we assume that the proposal of 650 million. kr extra until the pensioners are also adopted by Stortinget here today. I take up the solutions proposed by the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e1061	The representative Lise Christoffersen has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e1066	The party of progress is very pleased with the decisions we are going to make on this matter today, but we should like us not to be here, because the social security resolution we are now facing, was given clear indications as late as February this year. These are the leads that the Storting then allowed, which have not been properly followed up, and which now requires the Storting to intervene with extraordinary decisions. This is about how we make sure that the decisions taken in the Storting are actually followed up. It was the government's responsibility. The selected people were unable to take. Today, the majority of people take that responsibility. It's good for the country's pensioners, who then get an increase in purchasing power, estimated at over 600 million. kr, and it provides a better pension payment, based on the last two stated. I hear that the representative from the Workers' Party initially adds a powerful polemic. There's no need for that, because what we're doing now, and what we did through the initiative that the Progress Party, SV and the Retirement League had before in our day, is what, in sum, has contributed to a solution. There are many ways to solve this in practice. In the previous setting, the Progress Party has a proposal to increase this year's social security contributions to 3.83 p.m., as the Labour Party now makes a loose proposal with the Center Party and SV. The proposal contained in the option was only joined by the Central Party. We're glad that there are now several parties behind it. It has been more important for the other parties than for us to show direct budget coverage for it now. We've been meaning that it could take one in the new era. However, with the proposal that is now on the table, if the proposal of the Progress Party from the vote does not get a majority, we will subsidize the loose proposals that are before us. In addition to that, I would briefly like to say that in an incursion, the Progress Party is not taking part in the proposal that the Centre Party and SV present as a minority proposal No. 3 in the setting. I would therefore like to state that the Progress Party will also vote for that proposal in today's vote. Many debates in the Storting may sometimes get the impression that not all the world means to people outside this room. It often ends up in major political feuds and little substance when we're done with the debates. In this case, it is possible to do the opposite: mitigate the conflicts, ensure that the pensioners for 2021 have a social security solution in line with the leadership of the Stortinge, not least in line with what is a sensible policy for purchasing power development for the country's pensioners. The Progress Party is happy to contribute today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e1081	Would the representative like to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e1086	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e1091	Then the representative, Jon Georg Dale, has drawn up the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e1096	It's progress for the pensioners, and it's not least the result of a very good organisational policy from the Pensioners' Association. They're systematic, they're solid, they're nothing, they're planar, and it's now producing results. We have now got social security settled for real treatment in the spring session. The centre party has always agreed with it and demanded it. We now get it as a big message, and that's not how it should be. It was supposed to be a roll-out proposition with appropriations. But what we now experience is that while the Centre Party and the Advance Party stood alone in the Committee on Proposal No. 1, if an increase of 3.83 pst., fortunately we have now come into the situation that the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party are united on both 3.83 pst. and the necessary appropriations. That's how it's done. How did we get to 3.83 pst?? Well, that's a result of the correction of the failure rate for salary growth in 2020. It was estimated at 1.7 pst. Then it turned out, when we got the Technical Calculation Committee, that it was 3.1 – that is, a difference of 1.4. Then the government has estimated the salary growth in 2021 to 2.4 pst, and connected to the computational techniques associated with this, 2.4 and 1.4 will give 3.83. It is interesting that the government chooses to adjust the wage increase for 2021 to 2.4 pst., when an agreement of 2.7 pst was made at the LO-NHO settlement. In all subsequent agreements where the country has been involved, it has also been in excess of 2.7 pst. or below 2,7 pst. So I expect you to have a review of after-calculation to the next year too, if you're going to go into that part of this debate. So the new system that takes away the 0.75 pst reduction. from the growth in wages and salaries, by the majority here in the Grand Duchy, is interpreted to average the price and salary growth, but that pensioners should never receive anything more than the growth in wages and salaries. This means that one reduces the payments made by pensioners in the case of real wages increases, while in the case of real wages reductions, where the price increase is greater than the wage increase, the wage increase is to limit the calculation. That's how you lose, too. The centre party wants a symmetry here, an average of the price and salary growth both this year with a real wage increase and this year with a real wage decrease. Minimum pensions are important to raise. We know that percentageing always gives at least money to the one who has the lowest base a percentage of. Therefore, the centre party applies for special supplements to the minimum pensioners in order to increase their crowning amount, otherwise the gap will increase further. We want to reduce the gap. We want to raise those who are the worst – thus significant supplements to the minimum pension. We'll follow that up in every context. However, we do not agree that we should have a target of minimum pensions at the EU poverty line, the EU60, because it is not comparable what is the total benefit to older people in the EU and Norway. Finally, we have the main demands of the Pensioners' Association in the forthcoming Grand Prix elections, and that is that they will have the right to negotiate with the State. That is proposal No. 3, and I'll pick it up on behalf of the Center Party and SV. It is nice that the Progress Party also now says that one is for it. I would like to stress that this must be done within the framework of law and decision-making. What is now happening through the Committee's positions I and IV follows it in a careful manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e1113	Then the representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e1119	Now I'm going to give a speech for the thick and the narrow. This is probably my last post in Stortinget, so I took advantage of the opportunity to start the post in the way that my sister, Christine Lerbreck, really wanted me to do. We have now made social security arrangements for our treatment in the Storting. One important point then, which is clarified by the speakers before me, so I'm not going to talk too much about it, is that everyone has a worthy old age. I think there's some about this in the hall. Unfortunately, not everyone experiences it. It gets us fixed up a good deal today, and I'm very happy about that. The pension system has now ensured that people who have been in a long professional life will still end up poor when the pension comes. Last year we took the initiative to gather the opposition at Stortinget to do something about this, we did not know the outcome. Now we see the result. Today I am very proud to say that the time of lost purchasing power for the pension list is over. Unfortunately, the government did not entirely follow up the Storting's intention to fully compensate for the fall in 2020, when the regulation of old-age pensions was still 1.4 pst. during the real wage and price growth. So we're now making a proposal, together with the Workers' Party and the Center Party, for which the Progress Party is giving multiple numbers, and that's very good. The proposal corrects this error, in line with requirements of the LO, the YS, the FFO and the Pensioners' Association, so that the year's specification is 3.83 pst. That's what was meant to be. I record that the Progress Party here – and in the NRK – says that they were the only party that – together with the Center Party – was on that proposal in the vote. I have to say that it looks like a game for the gallery, when the actual money was no place for the Progress Party. They also did not ensure that it was implemented in the negotiations on the revised budget. We are also proposing today a real right to negotiate pension lists, and to create a compulsory retirement plan for the minimum pension resolution in the annual pension resolution, with NOK 7 500 more annually until the minimum pension reaches the EU60. Finally, I would like to thank the other opposition parties for their cooperation in this matter, and not least the Pensioners' Association, which has participated in hearings on this matter, but which have also participated in negotiations, conversations and hearings several times during the last year. Today, we not only guarantee a rise in the pension, but also other important schemes that the pensioners have pointed to, such as: The cultural walking stick and a reinforced protection for vulnerable elderly people. With that, I would like to thank the Stortinget and the Committee for four good years. It has been very instructive and very rewarding to work with you. Thank you!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e1138	Report. St. 33 for 2020–2021 is very important for the country’s nearly 1 million pensioners. The Budget Agreement with the Progress Party negotiated that the old-age pension during payment in 2021 should be regulated by an average of price and wage increases. The rule is that the wage earners seem to get a positive real growth and the wage increase is an upper ceiling. Now I understand that the Progress Party has found new solutions with other partners. I must say it's a surprise, but it says it's a surprise. The budget decision here in Stortinget agreed to increase the pension to the minimum pension list by NOK 5000, with effect from 1 July 2021. The pension level for single minimum pensioners was increased by NOK 4000 with effect from 1 May 2020. With this government, the pensioners have collected a tax return of about 5 billion. NOK – and in three rounds increased the minimum pension by NOK 4000. This is what the Christian People's Party has been working for, and we are very pleased that it has been so. The nominal increase in the minimum pension level for 2020 is 4.1 pst. for single and 1.4 pst. for married couples where both have the smallest performance. The increase in the number of singles is higher due to an increase in the minimum pension for single-age pensioners as of 1 September 2019. The effect of the termination of the NRK licence, while at the same time as the minimum pensioner without other income still does not have to pay taxes, contributes to the further increase of purchasing power for the minimum pension list. Women make up the majority of those who receive the minimum pension, but the proportion is still falling. Younger women's pensioners have more enthusiasm compared to older age groups. The share of low income among old-age pensioners has been low since the introduction of the pension reform in 2011. The Solberg government has given the minimum pension list a solid raise, with an increase of NOK 12000 and now, at the latest, NOK 5000 as of 1 July. The report ‘High income growth for the elderly’ from the Statistical Central Bureau notes that over the past 10 years, the elderly have experienced strong accumulation of income growth. Nevertheless, we have a smaller group of minimum pensioners who have a demanding economic situation. The Christian People's Party is concerned about securing a worthwhile level of pensions, as we see from the perspective message that development must be seen in the light of the number of people involved in the world of work. The pension reform takes this on board, and the evaluation of it will give us a picture of how well the reform has taken place. Developments from 2011 and future calculations will also have a significant impact on the further development of pension levels. But the taskbar is all the same. We also agree that everyone who can participate in the work with the resources they have. The elderly are also allowed to work longer, maybe until they are 75 years old, in both the private and the public sectors. It is immeasurably important in the public sector to remove the pension traps, which mainly happen to people born before 1953, and to a lesser extent to those born between 1954 and 1961. This means that honestly lit public service pension, lit through an entire working life, cannot be zeroed out, like now, if one continues to work beyond official retirement age. This injustice does not have them in the private sector, so here, the pension selection that is in progress, and that comes with a position on 1 March 2022, needs to be cleared up. The policy for the future must be a pension from the first to the last penny. The Christian People's Party will still be there for those who have the least. Everyone should be sure of a good and worthwhile old age, regardless of whether he or she has been in work or not for health reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e1159	The representative Dale said that the government had not actually and concretely followed up the Storting decision. That's exactly what the government has done, but then the population has changed. It's an honest thing. It was probably more precise what the representative of the Socialist Left Party said, that the Stortinget's intention might have been different, but the Stortinget has changed because it turned out that in the year 2020, to say the least, old regulation model went out better because the payroll was better than one suggested when the regulation was actually made. The current age pension regulation rules were introduced in 2011 as part of the pension reform. Then also came this fixed factor with a subtraction of 0.75 pst. In the years 2011 to 2013, there was a higher rate of growth in the old-age pension than an average estimate would have been made, while in the years 2014 to 2019 there was slightly lower growth than an average estimate would have been made. However, it is worth noting that the total payment from 2011 to 2019 would be slightly lower if the regulation had followed the average wage and price growth. This principle is now being reformed, there is now a broad consensus. It's mainly because we want a system that gives slightly less fluctuations from year to year. That means that the pensioners will get less in good years with good pay, which we may be going into now, but they will be protected against real decline this year with moderate or weak pay settlements. In the budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Progress Party on the State Budget 2021, it was agreed that the old-age pension, when paid out by the population in 2021, should be regulated by an average of price and wage increases, but no higher than wage increases. Thus, the Stortinget, when considering the representative proposal 53 S for 2020-2021, took decisions that the government, in the context of the social security settlement for 2021, would make a compensation for the social security settlement in 2020 corresponding to the difference between day-to-day regulatory principles and regulation as the actual average of wage and price increases. So promoted the government Prop. 126 S for 2020-2021, where we explained how we would follow up the request decisions. As a result of the need to follow up several of the decisions taken in connection with the implementation of the social security scheme, Chapter 4 of the Proposition set out in detail what would be used for the follow-up of the decisions. The Proposition proposes the necessary changes in appropriations to enable the State of Labour and Welfare to pay an increased pension before the summer of 2020 as a result of the decisions. It is apparent from the proposition that for 2021, the government would follow up the regulation decision through amendments to Regulation No 6 May 2011. 465, on the calculation of the wage increase to be used for the regulation of the basic amount and the old-age pension in social security. Furthermore, it states that the regulatory factor is to be determined in such a way that pensions receive a growth equivalent to that necessary for pensions to rise to the level at which they would be at if the old-age pension during payment was regulated by the average wage and price increase in 2020 and the average wage and price increase, but not higher than the wage and salary increase in 2021. It is clear from the section of the proposal's 4.1. In short, we turned the clock back, and then we said that we should also use the new calculation method for 2020. There was a minority proposal when this was discussed, where the government was asked to follow a calculation method for the regulation of pensions in 2021 and compensation for 2020 based on actual figures from the Technical Calculation Committee, not based on old estimates, i.e. the estimates that would be used. However, the majority of the Committee advised the Storting to adopt changes to the State budget in line with the proposals in the proposal. The proposal of the minority was voted down in Stortinget at the time of the case on 27 April 2021. Instead, the proposal of the majority of the Committee to adopt amendments was adopted unanimously. It's made that now that the Storting has a different meaning, we're here. I'm not going to go into the technical details of the disagreement. I'll just say a little bit about how this is going to be followed up. This means that Nav has to convert about one million retirement pensions, and Nav estimates that such a conversion can take place at the earliest in November this year. That doesn't mean Nav is going to sit on his hands and wait until November this year, but that means that new systems need to be developed to get this done. There is also reason to believe that other pension providers who regulate in the same way as in social security can face similar challenges. Finally, I would like to say that this communication provides detailed information on the year's regulation of pensions and a good picture of the economic situation of our pensioners.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e1180	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e1185	I noticed that the Council of State said that the Storting had changed its mind. On our side, we are a little surprised that there is such a gap between the government and the organizations on the basis and thus the framework for the settlement, because what the Stortinget decided, was to give new rules retroactive force as a compensation for another poor settlement, in 2020. So the whole basis for that decision has changed with the new and updated figures. How does the Council of State interpret giving new rules with retroactive effect, with negative results, as compensation to pensioners?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e1192	The compensation for 2020 is in the settlement for 2021. I could understand this better if it was so that we hadn't put it in, if we hadn't just followed up the Storting decision, but it's inside. I think this is also the most retired, and at least most people, and at least the most employees, who have now received a relatively moderate settlement this year, notice, because it is clear that when the pensions are regulated by the percentage we talk about here in the government's proposal, it is of course extraordinary. That's an extraordinary amount, and that means you get a much higher growth than usual employees. That's because there's a compensation there for 2020. The difference is that we have followed up what the Stortinge once decided, and at least joined the understanding, that this was to be done by creating a new regulatory regime for 2020. But then it turned out that it didn't want the bulk of the population anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e1197	Then it is clear that the Council of State and the majority in this Chamber have different definitions of what the term ‘compensatory’ means. A compensation is not something that is negative, it should be something that is positive. But Stortinget is going to make a decision on this today. I have another question: In examining Document 8:53 S for 2020-2021, Stortinget took a decision that organisations could negotiate other issues than just discussions on the basis of pension regulation. The organisations submitted four proposals, but despite the Storting decision, the State Council refused to conduct such negotiations. I wonder if the Council of State can justify it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e1204	Now I also have to say that there were shared opinions among the organisations about how successful it was to put this into the settlement in this way, because as many of them said, we have state budget rounds, there's a very solid routine. We have followed up what the Storting has said that this should apply. The organisations have also submitted claims in other areas, but the Stortinget did not give us a pot of 50 million. NOK so that we could grant money. The majority did not take any decision to grant, so that means that in the negotiations on other matters there is no extraordinary means that I have at my disposal in that process. Then we got rid of these decisions by writing what the government's policy is, and then the budgets will be presented when the budgets are presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e1211	Now, the assumption from Stortinget was that the kind of additional negotiations would take place from the social security scheme in 2021, and that is not a problem – if the Council of State had thought that the organisations were promoting demands to be taken into account, one could come to Stortinget with that allocation in one way or another. Tomorrow comes, among other things. The working party to add some money to the cultural spaserstock in the revised national budget, and there's a recipe for how such things can go on. But at the end of the day, the government is constantly pointing to the fact that lone minimum pensioners under the Solberg government have been given a boost through many extraordinary additions. Then I wonder if the Council of State can tell us when the government has made such a proposal to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e1218	Now I have to admit that I do not have the entire Solberg proposal list in place, but I think – and that is probably the representative Christoffersen wants me to say – that most of these things have come into place through budgetary conciliation, first with the Christian People's Party and the Left and then with the Progress Party. That's the last round. But what people out there can notice is that after eight years with a civil majority on the Grand Duchy, the minimum pensioners have been given a powerful, big and repetitive boost. It's a promise that the bourgeois majority has secured. Just as the bourgeois majority makes budgets together and comes up with compromises there, so have we made it for the pensioners and given special support to the minimum pensioners.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e1230	We are now processing a big message about social security, not a down payment proposition. It's a matter of course perfectly conscious that the government is submitting a message and not a proposition. Then we are in the situation that it is now up to us to become a majority – with the opposition parties – also for a grant in connection with the processing of this big message. The centre party has always ensured that the social security settlement should be dealt with after a proposal has been made to the Stortinget. My question is then: does the Council of State see it as natural in the future that one should present a proposition instead of a big message, when we are also in a situation where the government parties are involved in looking at different additions to the material itself, as shown here by the Roman number decisions?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e1235	An allocation proposal has also been submitted. In parentheses, the other numbers we're dealing with now were, among other things, the numbers that we're dealing with. what became the 2020 phase, known figures when the Storting treated that proposition. So it's natural, I think, that the social security settlement itself is presented as a big message. The usual thing is that the Stortinge gets it for treatment, and that the majority joins with what's there. It has been a little unusual this year, both because the bulk of the population now wants to connect to even more money, and because the government parties and the Progress Party and then a whole number of large-scales before it was agreed that we should change the regulation method, among other things. I believe that the way we do it now, with a big message, is the most tidy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e1242	It shows that in the next session there is a need to get back proposals, so that we get social security payments treated both verbally and economically with the seriousness of a proposition. I said in my statement that the right to negotiate with the Pensioners' Association/SAKO must be done within the framework of a law and a decision to cancel the contract. The Council of State made it clear that there was no major decision on the framework of the different schemes within which one could negotiate, and that is why we have got the Roman number decisions that are now here, which are largely investigations, it's on the way. Do I understand the Council of States' right that what the Storting should do is clarify the financial framework that can be included in such a right of negotiation, in addition to what is laid down by law, as regards the content of pensions themselves?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e1251	If the Storting wants it to be a separate pot for use during the negotiations, the majority of the Storting must put money into that pot. That is what obviously has to be done technically. It would be strange if the government were to negotiate something with an organization and had no starting point for money or level. But I also believe that we should be very careful about making special negotiations that go beyond the usual budgetary procedures, because it is in the budgetary procedures that we can look different interests up against each other. When the bulk of the population today decides to use approx. 650 million. kr more – it may be a bit much, but 500-600 million. kr more – is not the free money. At some point it is taken from something. There is money we cannot spend on other things: children, young people, combating poverty in Norway, economic development.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e1256	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e1263	I need to make some comments on the solutions, no. 4 and Nos 5, submitted on behalf of SV, the Centre Party and the Workers' Party today. We were surprised when we realized that some parties had thought that we did not support a proposal to regulate pensions by 3.83 pst. when the matter was submitted in Stortinget. We believe that our remarks in the budget are quite clear on that. Just as clearly, we were spending money on RNB. We thought that was right because the Council and the government had submitted a revised national budget with an increase of 3.58 p.m.. in the revised budget, and that is why we believed that the money also belonged there. Then I have understood that the Progress Party had an understanding with the government that this allocation could be taken into account in the balancing proposition for the autumn. The Labour Party and the other parties that are behind the proposals believe this is quite special. I am at least of the feeling that when you make changes that have such significant budgetary implications, you should give that money when the matter is on the table. But in order for us to be able to have a majority for that, we have moved our appropriations over to this matter, taken it out of the RNB and into the social security settlement. When we went into the hall here today, there were messages from those that count on that, that 650 million. kr could be a little too much, and that there might be a need to have it placed on another chapter and post. We also saw this as an opportunity when we presented this proposal, for which we were given a majority, something we are pleased about, and that is why our proposal also states that we give the government the power to distribute the right items. I would like to change that proposal to apply to «chapter and post», so that one has the opportunity to transfer some of the money to the State pension fund, which is a necessity. Then I have understood that this may be a bit demanding for the bureaucracy to get in place, but we have to expect an angry government council to be able to place the money, so that we should not hinder the payments because there are no appropriations for the correct chapter and post in the Stortinget. I understand you can handle that. The money is here, and if there are a few million too many, it's rarely my experience that a little too large a proposal for funding creates problems in the Ministry of Finance. The money that is left over when there is an estimate, you will be able to take advantage of the ageing and just correct it there. So I'm sure that if the estimate is perhaps a few million too high, well, it's going well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e1274	The representative, Mr Aasrud, then clarified the clarification in proposal No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e1279	When Grandma was born in 1926, her life expectancy was about 63 years. When she died last year, she was 93. So she lived 30 years longer than expected. She had been working as a maid and a waitress for over 20 years when the People's Security Act was passed in 1967. So, like a lot of people, Grandma got more in retirement than she had paid in herself. When we live longer, the money has to extend longer. The pension reform provided this. Sustainability was also improved by underregulation, which means that it is always worth choosing to work. It is reasonable that employees, who fund pensions, actually get a little more of the wage growth than those who have left the labour market. Of course, the oil has helped. Government pension funds abroad manage large sums, but provide only a little of future pensions. In addition, direct revenues from the black gold finance current well-being and state budget pensions. It comes with a cost. The young have to live with the climate change our wealth has created. In addition, they must both work more and work longer than their grandparents and probably save more yourself to get the same or probably less than the pensioners get today. The children and grandchildren of pensioners will not only convert Norway from an oil-based economy – which has been a free card for policy priorities – to become a sustainable renewable society. So they're going to lift Norway through a deadly pandemic that can lead to a global recession that has no parallels, with its economic consequences. While some lose their life’s work and others’ jobs, the bulk of population now chooses to further adjust the incomes of those who have left the labour market. So Grandma lived for 30 years as a retired person, as more and more people actually do. She received under-regulated retirement and lost purchasing power in the last five years, but society also provided life-long medical treatment, hospitalizations, technical aids, home care and later on also nursing homes. Grandma accepted the underregulation so that her one-year-old great-grandchild would also experience the wealth growth and security she herself has had. For the village that's going to train him, it's getting poorer, and the bill's going to be sent to the younger ones. It was said here that the Storting has no habit of adopting changes with retroactive effect to the disadvantage of those involved. All agree that pensioners should have safe and decent income. They have. Tomorrow's pensioners, on the other hand, are probably the ones who get the disadvantages.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e1292	I just need to say a few things, so that the Storting is really informed about it. First of all, when it comes to money, of course, we have to do our part to ensure that the will of the Storting and majority decisions are followed up. It is true that there are some discussions going on between the Storting and the Ministries about what are correct formulations, but let it be clear, in any case, that this is being followed up. The money will be allocated as the Stortinget wants, and then we'll get the practical around it, to say it a little bit simple. So just a little bit about how this will be followed up, because as I mentioned in my post, this means that Nav has to convert approx. one million re-emergency cases from 1 May 2021. There's a very big difference for Nav if they're going to convert the effect time back or forth in time, and it's, based on what they say, a greater risk of errors and unforeseen consequences when you're going to convert back in time. The administrative consequences are largely linked to the lack of a suitable power solution for controlling performance twice from the same time and therefore a new solution requires system modification. It is also the case that very many of the cases need to be handled manually, estimatedly at least 25 000 cases, but probably significantly more. The handling of the manual matters is estimated to take from three to five months after the conversion with the machine job has been completed. Nav also provides the Ministry with information that there is a significant risk that Nav will not be able to perform the conversion before May 2022. There are also costs in Nav related to manual processing, and this can, of course, also lead to an increase in the length of the ordinary procedure. Provided Nav is upgraded, given the necessary means for implementation and clear signal to start the work of developing the machine job before the summer, Nav will start the work of developing the machine job in August 2021 and will be able to convert the cases in November 2021 at the earliest, as I said. It is okay, during these disclosure periods, that the Storting has already been informed that, as I said, there is a significant risk that sufficient functionality will not be in place after three months, and that it will still be necessary up to nine months of implementation in order to have proper functionality in place before conversion can be carried out. Then I finally have a personal, or not personal, that's most of a political consideration. I must also say thank you for the time we have had with the Committee. I think the spring has shown that it is nice to come together in different majoritys, that is how parliamentaryism is, but it has also shown the value of having a pension unit that extends over time and that is stable and predictable.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e1311	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e1327	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e1334	Thank you for the commitment of the Progress Party to improve the life situation of people living at a hidden address. Today it is approx. 1 000 people living at a secret address. The draft representative shall submit a proposal for an expert committee to investigate the situation of these persons. Protection and blocked address are measures used primarily by the justice sector, but also by the protection of children. Police work on the protection of vulnerable persons is organised through national guidelines on witness protection. These guidelines establish two levels of responsibility for protection: a local level, where police districts are responsible for ensuring the security of vulnerable persons in their districts, and a national level, taken care of by Kripos. In cases where children have their own protective measures as a result of a child-restraint case, child protection has decision-making powers. The Committee refers to the letter of 13 April 2021 from the Council of State Kjell Ingolf Ruppstad to the Committee concerning the examination of a proposal for a representative on a strengthened and free offer of emergency services for victims of violence. In the letter, the Council of State states that the government will investigate legislative changes and assess measures to improve the quality of supply at crisis centres. And in this case, the Committee asks that issues and possible measures to improve the life situation of children and young people living in a secret place be investigated in this work. I believe that this and some other measures are sufficient, and see no need to set up an expert committee. It will take time and require resources, and I doubt whether you will go beyond the measures that are now in progress. There will be an action plan against violence in close relationships. It is to be launched in a short time, it is stated in the letter from the Council of State. It will also address issues addressed by these representatives. So there are two things going on: a review of the law and an action plan. Address bar or protection of personal data in the public register is known as code 6, strictly confidential address, or code 7, confidential address. I would like to remind you that the Crisis Centre Secretariat has developed a very good guide on the rights of persons in code 6 and code 7. It's on 21 sides and it's directed towards both Nav and Helfo. This should be more than enough, and I therefore recommend that the Stortinget not vote to set up an expert committee. I would also like to thank the Council of States for their good cooperation in matters within the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e1351	The representative Kristin Örmen Johnsen might want to take up the proposal of the Right and Christian People's Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e1356	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e1361	The representative Kristin Örmen Johnsen has taken up the suggestion she made.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e1366	Last week I resigned after 16 years from this pulpit and thought I had stood here for the very last time. But then I discovered that the Committee was actually able to deal with this proposal before the summer anyway. Since I am behind the idea of promoting the proposal, I would like to thank you for your good work and for the fact that someone today is making a decision. Many in this room know that a few years ago I met a lonely and very traumatized young lady. She has experienced a lot of wickedness and betrayal, and my years with her have taught me a lot about many things. In addition to all the atrocities, she has also lived on code 6. Living on code 6 has sides to it that I hadn't thought about that much. I have thought that it is great that we can offer security. But at what cost, and how safe is it? Fortunately, placing a child at a secret address is rare, but when it is done, there is a serious danger to the child and to those who are taking care of the child. So: First, the child experiences violence, assault or care failure over a long period of time. Then it is placed in an unknown place. Away is the violence and care failure, but also the little security you had. Away are the teacher, the football team, the cozy neighbor, the friends and maybe some relatives. Everything is new and alien, and all the familiar is gone. So some of these children also have to live under a strict regime. They are told that they have got a new name, that someone is looking to take them so they must always be on guard. They can't tell anything about their own family, things they've experienced, and places they've been. They can never be mapped in any context. What burden do you put on a little child to remember all these restrictions, and what security is it for a little child when any person you see can be a potential kidnapper? What about he who sits and waits in a car; is he looking to take me? What about the one hanging on a street corner? Is the lady on the bench a danger to me? I would like to remind you that adults too live in a secret address or with a completely new identity. They also have many traumas, stand alone and live with fear. They too are dependent on a society of knowledge and systems that are safe and work as intended. Those who live with a secret address have a number of challenges that are partly common. At the same time, they live in many different places and meet many public institutions. There is a need to see the field in context and to find out what can and should be done better. The same kind of arrangements that we might benefit from are available in other countries. An expert committee to address issues and actions will be an incredibly important contribution. And frankly, I find it very strange that the government parties do not support this. These children had earned a total stature in their backs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e1377	The children and families who experience such a great threat that they have to live in a blocked place live in very demanding situations. I share the commitment of the proposers to their life situation, and I think the representative Kari Kjenaas Kjos had a very good description of the situation. I want to say that it was very good that she kept this post, and I also think it sums up the commitment of the representative of Kjeenas Kjos, whom I have known over a long time, in a very nice way. So I want to thank her for that. Some young people live on a screened address as a result of the need to protect their parents. These matters are the responsibility of Kripos. The second type of case is children who have their own protective measures as a result of a child protection case, and here it is child protection that has decision-making powers. These last cases are limited in scope. Police work on the protection of vulnerable persons is organised through national guidelines on witness protection. The proposal points out the need for a national unit responsible for disseminating and organising competence in the field. This competence is the Kripos that has today. The Child Protection Service is responsible for notifying the need for a barrier in cases where a decision on a hidden address has been taken under the Child Protection Act. In other words, the subject may decide that parents shall not have the right to know where the child is located. In practice, hidden addresses in child protection cases have been used primarily for child safety risks, such as: in the event of a risk of kidnapping or in the event of harassment of parents or institutional staff. It has also been used in locations for anonymous adoption. The work on a new action plan on violence in close relations is in the final phase and it has been decided that the Ministry of Justice and Defence, in cooperation with the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, will initiate an evaluation of the system of address barriers. Both adults with and without children and children under the care of child protection will be included in evaluations. I believe that the work currently in progress will address the issues raised by the proposers. Setting up an expert group in parallel with an evaluation will mean double work after all solar panels. However, I do not reject the fact that, after an evaluation, there may be a need for an expert committee etc. which can look at some measures and to ensure that the scheme is best organised to improve the situation of children and young people living at a secret address. Therefore, my assessment is that it is not appropriate to set up an expert group now. Now there are also many measures in the action plan, and we are looking at crisis centres and at the law related to them, which are also involved in caring for many of these young people and families.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e1388	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox Today's map has finished the debate, and Stortinget is now taking a break. In accordance with the announced agenda, voting will be held at 0 p.m. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e1412	The cancellation is then ready to vote on the matters on the current map.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e1585	In the course of the debate, all nine proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2 from members of the Presidency Eva Kristin Hansen and Magne Rommetveit proposal No 3, from Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No 4, by Björna Moxnes on behalf of the Green and Red Environmental Party the proposals No 5 and 6 from Ola Elvesuen on behalf of the Left the proposals No 7-9, by Björnar Moxnes on behalf of the Left, Environment Party of the Greens and Reds There is a vote on proposal No. 4. from the Green and Red Environmental Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The third paragraph of Section 75a of the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament shall be replaced by the following: Employees of the security-cleared and deserving party groups shall be given access to classified information. Such information shall be obtained from the Administration of Storting, which shall verify the security clearance and authorisation of persons, and shall record who shall be granted access to the classified information. The representative of the Committee shall decide whether an employee of the batch group needs the information. The Committee decides on the granting of access to classified information for employees of batches not represented in the Committee. The provisions of the Security Act relating to security clearance and authorisation, as well as the rules of the Security Act and the Protection Directive concerning the processing of information and the obligation of professional secrecy apply.’;» The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e1620	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: «Grandnings Rules of Procedure § 14 nr. 2 shall be replaced by the following: The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e1637	There is a vote on proposal No. 5 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: «Grandnings Rules of Procedure § 14 nr. 3 shall be replaced by the following: Family and Culture Committee: Family, child and youth matters, equality between women and men, consumer matters, including matters relating to debt regime, church, religious and life views, and culture.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e1654	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Left, the Greens and the Reds. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The third paragraph of Section 70 of the Rules of Procedure of the EEA Joint Committee shall be replaced by the following: During one calendar week, a representative may ask up to two questions in writing. The leaders of the batches may also ask two questions per calendar week. Questions relating to a written answer may not be asked in July.» The Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e1672	There is a vote on proposal No. 8, from the Left, the Greens and the Reds. The proposal reads as follows: «Article 68, third paragraph, first sentence of the Rules of Procedure of the Grand Duchy shall be replaced by the following: Interpellation shall be answered in the Grand Duchy as soon as possible and no later than three weeks after its appointment, unless the Presidency agrees that it will be answered at a later date.» The Christian People's Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e1689	There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the Left, the Greens and the Reds. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The first paragraph of Section 53 of the Rules of Procedure of the Grand Duchy shall be replaced by the following: The reply shall be related to the relevant article. Number time is one minute. The person whose posts cause replicas may reply to each of the posts in succession. The number of replies from a member of the government shall normally not be reduced to a lower number than that of all batches.’ The Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e1706	There is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The first sentence of the fourth paragraph of Article 68 of the Rules of Procedure of the Grand Duchy shall be replaced by the following: In the course of the proceedings in the Grand Duchy, the word ‘interpellant’ shall first be spoken for a maximum of 10 minutes to explain the content of the interpellant. Paragraph 68, fifth paragraph, first sentence, shall be replaced by the following: If the interpellation is answered, the member of the Government responding to the interpellation shall have a speaking time of up to 10 minutes. The second sentence of the sixth paragraph of Article 68 shall be replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e1721	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, by the members of the presidency Eva Kristin Hansen and Magne Rommetveit. The proposal reads as follows: «Grandnings Rules of Procedure § 14 nr. 7 is replaced by the following: 7th@item: inlistbox Municipal and administrative committee: matters relating to municipal administration, regional and district policies, framework grants to municipalities and county municipalities, immigration policy, housing conditions, building matters, national minorities, Sami issues other than the rules on elections to the Sameting, matters relating to the organisation and scope of government administration, the common administration of the state, government personnel policy, including remuneration, royal house appropriations and party support. ‘’» The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal, and the President assumes that the Labour Party should also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e1745	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, by the members of the presidency Eva Kristin Hansen and Magne Rommetveit. The proposal reads as follows: 'Rule 14 of the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament 2 is replaced by the following: 2nd@item: inlistbox Energy and environment committee: matters relating to oil, energy, watercourses, environmental protection and regional planning.» The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced support for the proposal – and also the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e2199	It is contested by Section A of the fifth paragraph of Section 16. The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e2213	The first sentence of the fourth paragraph of Section 68 and the first sentence of the fifth paragraph of Section 68 shall be deleted. The Central Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e2227	The third sentence of the second paragraph of Section 3 and the first paragraph of Section 5. The Greens and Reds have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e2241	It goes over the rest of A and the rest of B.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e2268	Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e2287	Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e2329	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Torgeir Knag County on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Torgair Knag County on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party proposal No 3, from Terje Aasland on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 4, from Emilie Enger Mehl on behalf of the Centre Party Proposal No. 3 was changed during the debate and now reads: ‘If possible, the government requests the inclusion of ‘new services’ in the reservation list of the contract, provided that this does not delay the entry into force of the contract.’; There is a vote on proposal No. Four from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the agreement incorporates a Norwegian wording which reads: Norway reserves the right to adopt or maintain any measure in respect of the provision of new services not included in the United Nations Provisional Central Product Classification classification. [[CPC]] The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e2366	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for an impact assessment of the Free Trade Agreement with the United Kingdom where the specific use of negative lists, freezing and scrapping, the prohibition of performance requirements, and national treatment for the pre-establishment of investments, the prohibition of customs duties on digital services, and extensive regulatory cooperation are being reviewed. Once the investigation has been completed, it will need to be consulted before further government and Storting treatment. Upon completion of the investigation, a renegotiation of parts or the whole of the contract must be opened.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal. The centre party has notified subsidized aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e2385	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘If possible, the government requests the inclusion of ‘new services’ in the reservation list of the contract, provided that this does not delay the entry into force of the contract.’; All parties have now announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e2407	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The size postpones Prop. 210 S for treatment at a later stage, possibly in an extraordinary meeting, to give the population, organisations and elected representatives the opportunity to enter into the free trade agreement and to have it properly illuminated and treated. ‘... [[2020-2021]] The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e2431	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Jon Georg Dale on behalf of the Progress Party and the Centre Party proposal No 2, by Jon Georg Dale on behalf of the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 4 and 5, from Lise Christoffersen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 5 was changed during the debate and the last sentence of the proposal now reads: ‘The size gives the government the power to allocate the allocation to the appropriate chapters and items.’ There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a real right to negotiate for pensioners in the treatment of the social security scheme, with effect from 2022. The Association of Pensioners/SAKO is responsible for the negotiations.» The Progress Party and Red have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e2468	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The budget asks the government to include in the annual pension accounts a plan for occupational retirement provision to increase the level by SEK 7500 annually, with effect from 1 May each year, until the minimum pension reaches the poverty target EU60.’» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e2485	There is a vote on proposal No. One from the Progress Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the social security balance in 2021 is 3.83 pst. annual growth rate of current old-age pensions.» The Socialist Left and Red have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e2502	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4 and 5 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to change the regulation of pensions during the payment of 2021 in line with the requirements of the LO, YS, FFO and the Pensioners’ Association. This implies that the annual growth rate of the current retirement pension in 2021 is 3.83 pst. rather than 3.58 pst. as the government has committed.’;» Proposal No. 5 reads: ‘The State budget for 2021 is amended as follows: •................................................................................................................................................................... Cape. Post Purpose Kroner 2670 Age 71 Supplementary pension, estimate appropriations, increased by 650 000 000 The size gives the government the power to allocate the allocation to the appropriate chapters and items.’ Red has announced support for the proposal. The Procedural Party has notified subsidized aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e2562	The Labour Party and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e2593	During the debate, Kristin Ørmen Johnsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 8:295 S [[2020-2021]] Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Greens and Reds have announced support for the vote. The left has announced support for the proposal. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-17.ana.ud225e2632	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
