ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-18.ana.ud239e25	The representative Anja Ninasdotter Abusland, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. From the Prime Minister's office there is a letter to Stortinget, dated 14 October 2021, concerning the change of government. Having regard to the Royal Resolutions, the following information shall be disclosed: ‘The Minister of State Erna Solberg and the Councils of State of her Government shall be dismissed from office with effect from 14 October 2021 a.m. 12:00. [[solberg government]] The State Secretary of the Government of Solberg shall be dismissed from office with effect from 14 October 2021 a.m. 12:00. Parliamentary representative Jonas Gahr Støre is appointed Prime Minister and the following is appointed as Prime Minister in his government with effect from 14 October 2021 at 2.30 p.m. 12.00: Mr Tygve Magnus Slagsvold Vedum Representative for the Grandfather Hadia Tajik Representative of Storting Ola Borten Moe Representative for Storting Bears Selnes Schjöran Councillor Anne Beathe Kristiansen Twinnereim Magnitude representative Anniken Scharning Huitfeldt Group Manager Odd Roger Enoxsen Mr Espen Barth Eide Representative of Storting Kjersti Toppe Conductor Beard Arild Gram Mr Jon-Ivar Nygård Parliamentary representative Marte Mjøs Persen Mr Ingvild Kjerkol Stuttering representative Anette Trettebergstuen Daily Director Jan Christian Vestre County Councillor Tonje Brenna Magnificent representative Sandra Konstance Nygård Borch Permanent Representative Emilie Enger Mehl The ranking of the Government according to the Prime Minister is, until further notice, according to the list of.’.» Further information is provided: ‘The members of the Government of Støre shall take over the administration of the departments as follows: Councillor Trygve Magnus Schlagsvold Vedum takes over the board of the Ministry of Finance. Councillor Hadia Tajik takes over the board of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. In addition, she takes over the Management Board of the Department of Integration of the Ministry of Knowledge, including the responsibility for the handling of civil matters under the National Act of the Directorate of Foreign Affairs, and the responsibility for the Directorate of Integration and Diversity. State Council Ola Borten Moe shall be responsible for government policies relating to research, higher education, vocational schools, general competence policy and training support in the Ministry of Knowledge. State Council The Borten Moe shall be responsible for the following agencies: the National Research Ethics Committees, the Directorate for Higher Education and Competences, the State Loan Fund for Education, the National Agency for Quality of Education, the Norwegian Research Council, the Directorate for ICT and the Joint Services in Higher Education and Research and Vea – Norway’s Green College. In addition, the State Council, Mr Borten Moe, shall be responsible for the State institutions in the university and higher education sectors, as well as for the Norwegian Institute of Foreign Policy. State Council Björn Selnes Schjäran shall be responsible for fisheries and marine affairs in the Ministry of Food and Fisheries, including responsibility for fisheries and aquaculture policy, maritime food policy and maritime research and innovation policy. State Council The Board of Governors shall be responsible for the underlying establishments and related establishments in the fisheries and aquaculture sectors. State Council Anne Beathe Kristiansen Twinnereim shall be responsible for development matters in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, including development policy activities outside the OSCE area, the Middle East, North Africa and Afghanistan. The twinning council shall also be responsible for development cooperation with the United Nations system, the World Bank, regional development banks and other global funds and programmes, as well as the establishment management of Norad, Norec and the follow-up of Norfund. Government Council Anniken Scharning Huitfeldt takes over the board of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, except for the matters of the Council of State Anne Beathe Kristiansen Twinnereim. State Council Odd Roger Enoksen is taking over the board of the Ministry of Defence. Government councillor Espen Barth Eide takes over the board of the Ministry of Climate and Environment. Councillor Kjersti Toppe takes over from the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs. Councillor Bjørn Arild Gram takes over from the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. Councillor Jon-Ivar Nygård takes over from the Ministry of Transport. Councillor Marte Mjøs Persen takes over from the Ministry of Oil and Energy. Government councillor Ingvild Kjerkol takes over the board of the Ministry of Health and Welfare. Councillor Anette Trettebergstuen takes over the board of the Ministry of Culture. Government Council Jan Christian Vestre takes over the Board of Directors of the Ministry of Food and Fisheries, except for the matters of the Council of State Björn Selnes Schjöran. Government councillor Tonje Brenna takes over the board of the Ministry of Knowledge, except for the matters of state councillor Ola Borten Moe. Councillor Sandra Konstance Nygård Borch takes over the management of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. Councillor Emilie Enger Mehl takes over from the Ministry of Justice and Defence. The ranking of the members of the Government of Støre shall be determined in accordance with the attached proposals. The Council of State Anne Beathe Kristiansen Twinnereim is appointed as Norway's representative in the Nordic Council of Ministers with the special task of being responsible for coordinating Nordic cooperation issues. The Council of State Anne Beathe Kristiansen Twinnereim is empowered to exercise the specific functions of international law conferred on the Minister of Foreign Affairs when the Minister of Foreign Affairs is absent. The second-ranking member of the Government shall be the Prime Minister of State in any alert cases under the Labour Environment Act against the Prime Minister. The following are appointed State Secretaries: Kristine Joy Nordenson Kallset, State Secretary for Prime Minister Jonas Gahr Støre Astrid Scharning Huitfeldt, State Secretary for Prime Minister Jonas Gahr Støre Wegard Håkon Harsvik, State Secretary for Prime Minister Jonas Gahr Støre Thomas Boe Hornburg, State Secretary for Prime Minister Jonas Gahr Støre Address Benedicte Sordbakke, State Secretary for Prime Minister Jonas Gahr Støre Siri Storstein Hytten, State Secretary for Prime Minister Jonas Gahr Støre Anne Marie Aanerud, State Secretary to Prime Minister Jonas Gahr Støre Andreas Bjelland Eriksen, State Secretary for Prime Minister Jonas Gahr Støre Mr Lars Erik Bartnes, State Secretary for Finance, Mr Trygve Magnus Schlagsvold Vedum Erling Emil Laugsand, State Secretary for Finance Minister Trygve Magnus Schlagsvold Vedum Mr Lars Vangen, State Secretary for Finance Minister Trygve Magnus Schlagsvold Vedum Erlend Trygve Grimstad, State Secretary for Finance Minister Trygve Magnus Slagsvold Vedum Lotte Grepp Knutsen, State Secretary for Finance Minister Trygve Magnus Schlagsvold Vedum Maria Schumacher Walberg, Minister of State for Labour and Inclusion Hadia Tajik Truls Aronsen Wickholm, Minister of State for Labour and Inclusion Hadia Tajik Nancy Herz, Minister of State for Labour and Inclusion Hadia Tajik Mr Vidar Ulriksen, State Secretary for Fisheries and Maritime Affairs, Mr Björn Selnes Schüran Bjørg Sandkjær, State Secretary, Minister for Development Anne Beathe Kristiansen Twinnereim Eivind Vad Petersson, Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs Anniken Scharning Huitfeldt Finn Henrik Thune, State Secretary for Foreign Affairs Anniken Scharning Huitfeldt Mr Ragnhild Sjoner Syrstad, State Secretary for Climate and Environment, Espen Barth Eide Ms Trine Fagervik, Minister of State for Child and Family Affairs, Kjersti Toppe Ole Gustav Narud, State Secretary for Minister for Municipal and District Affairs, Bjørn Arild Gram Kjersti Bjørnstad State Secretary for Minister for Local and District Affairs Bjørn Arild Gram Nancy Charlotte Porsanger Anti, State Secretary for Minister for Municipal and District Affairs, Bjørn Arild Gram Mette Gundersen, State Secretary for Minister for Transport Jon-Ivar Nygård Mr Amund Vik, State Secretary for Oil and Energy, Mr Marte Mjøs Persen Karl Kristian Bekeng, Secretary of State for Health and Care Minister Ingvild Kjerkol Gry Haugsbakken, State Secretary, Minister for Culture and Gender Equality, Anette Trettebergstien Halvard Ingebrichsen, State Secretary, Minister for Industry Jan Christian Vestre Janicke Andreassen, State Secretary, Minister for Industry Jan Christian Vestre Kristina Torbergsen, State Secretary for the Minister of Knowledge, Tonje Brenna Mr Halvard Hölleland, State Secretary for Science Minister Tonje Brenna Wenche Karen Westberg, Minister of State for Agriculture and Food Sandra Konstance Nygård Borch Astrid Bergmål, State Secretary to Minister for Justice and Defence Emilie Enger Mehl These posts are kept open to state councils and State Secretaries who are employed in the State as long as they are State Councils and State Secretaries. If they have been added to the annual target position, the end of the annual target shall be postponed for a period corresponding to the time they have served as state councils or state secretaries. All the amendments made above shall take effect on 14 October 2021 at the latest. 12:00.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-18.ana.ud239e289	The President proposed that the letter be annexed to the minutes and considered adopted. The change of government entails the following changes in the composition of the Storting: Former members of the Government Jan Tore Sanner, Henrik Asheim, Abid Raja, Erna Solberg, Dag-Inge Ulstein, Sveinung Rotevatn, Ine Eriksen Soreide, Nikolai Astrup, Guri Melby, Tina Bru, Olug Vervik Bollestad and Linda Hofstad Helleland and former Secretary of State Grunde Almeland take the seat of representatives. The following alternates meet as representatives at the time the representatives Anniken Huitfeldt, Anette Trettebergstien, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, Emilie Mehl, Marte Mjøs Persen, Kjersti Toppe, Björn Schjran, Jonas Gahr Støre, Espen Barth Eide, Hadia Tajik, Sandra Borch, Ingvild Kjerkol, Ola Borten Moe and Jon-Ivar Nygård are members of the Government: For Akershus: Ragnhild Male Hartviksen For Hedmark: Even Eriksen, Per Martin Sandtrøen and Margrethe Haarr For Hordaland: Lubna Boby Jaffery and Hans Inge Myrvold For Northern Ireland: Karianne B. Bröthen For Oslo: Frode Jacobsen and Siri Gåsemyr Staales For Rogaland: Tom Kalsås For Troms: Ivar B. Prestbakmo For Nord-Trøndelag: May Britt Lagesen For South-Trøndelag: Maren Grøthe For Eastfold: Solveig Vitanza
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-18.ana.ud239e404	The representative, Mr Wiborg, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-18.ana.ud239e407	On behalf of Sylvi Listhaug and myself, it is a pleasure to promote a proposal for a representative to secure the rights of daily allowances and sick pay for all workers without age discrimination.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-18.ana.ud239e412	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-18.ana.ud239e428	The elections on 13 September gave a historically strong majority for a new and fairer course for our country. The best thing about Norway is the high trust we have in each other, and the strong community that binds us together. Small differences and a living government have made Norway one of the world’s best countries to live in. Increasing disenchantment, privatisation and centralisation of services, and increasing inequality depend on trust, security and cohesion. Ordinary people throughout the country want their lives, challenges and interests to be at the top of the agenda. This is the starting point for the Hurdal platform on which the government was founded by the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The government will shift power to ordinary people in all areas of society. Most importantly, work is safe for everyone and good services close to people. It provides equal opportunities and security for all to have a strong community in their backs. That's how we create a basis for good life throughout the country and give people more power over the life they live, for themselves and theirs. By putting ordinary people first, we also equip Norway for the meeting with major challenges ahead of us, such as climate crisis, digitisation and the great tasks of the welfare state. Strong communities, high trust and small differences are essential to help people to develop Norway safely. It's by building on the best thing in our country that we get people on a big social level. For the government, work is safe for every job number one. It is the key to a more fair society, more fair distribution and freedom for individuals. The labour policy shall be based on respect for the honest work of ordinary people and ensure a good salary, a full and firm position and a safe pension for all. High levels of organisation and strong trade unions are at the heart of the Norwegian working life model. It has provided a high degree of adaptability and productivity and is a unique competitive advantage for Norway. The government wants closer and more committed tripartite cooperation and strengthened local cooperation. The social partners shall be represented in all relevant government committees. The level of organisation shall be increased, inter alia: in the case of a doubling of the trade-union deduction. The government will fight social dumping and carry out a major cleaning in Norwegian working life to ensure permanent, full-time jobs with Norwegian pay and working conditions. A full-time promise shall be made in cooperation with the municipalities. The right of preference for an increased position and the right to a full time shall be strengthened in the law. The government will eliminate general access to temporary employment, limit rentals, combat labour-life crime and stop free-falling in the taxi industry. By developing the Norway model for national public acquisitions, we will provide more permanent jobs, skilled workers and apprentices. More young people will have a chance in their working life. Through the renewal of the public sector, we need to achieve more well-being and less administration, including: by focusing on digitisation. Trust reform in the public sector is one of the government's most important projects. It shall provide employees with time and confidence to provide better services to users and shall be designed in interaction with user organisations, social partners and management. An active and forward-looking industrial policy shall contribute to the government's objective of increasing Norwegian exports other than oil and gas by at least 50 pst. by 2030. Industry based on our common natural resources such as power, fish and forest shall be given a special status. Norway shall lead in the development of the world’s most productive and environmentally friendly aquaculture industry. To succeed, we need to ensure that Norwegian natural resources, including reasonable renewable energy, remain a competitive advantage for Norwegian industry. New inter-territorial relations with the rest of the world shall not be recognised during this grossing-up period. In some areas, the Community must use state ownership to ensure national control. That is the responsibility of the policy. State ownership shall be developed and strengthened in the conversion of the Norwegian economy. The world is increasingly demanding low carbon products. Renewable energy is an area in which Norwegian industrial environments have great and unique opportunities. With a green industrial offensive, the government will help create jobs, secure well-being and cut Norwegian and world emissions. The State shall contribute to the development and scaling of industrial technologies in Norway. The industry shall meet with strict emission reduction requirements, while receiving support for the implementation of the conversion process. The State must set requirements – and set them. The government will develop the whole of Norway. We will ensure good services near people, more jobs, good infrastructure and varied cultural services across the country. The time for overrun of local communities is over. The free revenues of municipalities shall be increased and the municipal income system shall ensure an equivalent service offer throughout the country. The government will dissolve coercive counties and municipalities which submit an application for a decision in the county or local government respectively. The government will send a case to the Stortinget proposing that the application submitted by the county council in Troms and Finnmark be accepted. Based on an application from the Viken County Council, a process is initiated to restore Akershus, Buskerud and Østfold. District policy should be strengthened and renewed, with work and well-being as its priority. Government establishments shall be organised in such a way as to ensure that their competences are as close as possible to those of the population. New state jobs shall be created outside Oslo, unless obvious reasons warrant otherwise. Strong environments of competence shall be built across the country through a more balanced distribution of public jobs. District development policy must be reinforced and renewed, and work must be undertaken on building growth agreements in selected locations. Local service squares and local service centres shall provide better access to services such as legal advice and the issue of passports and driving licences. The government will take care of the role of cities as regional motors and promote the role of medium-sized cities in the development of our country. We will address challenges related to living conditions, social mobility and urban child poverty. The government will implement a new cultural promise that will benefit the whole country. The share of culture in the state budget is to be gradually increased to 1 p.m., and we want to improve the conditions of artists. The government will strengthen freedom of expression and the condition of the free editor-in-chief media. The Government will submit a national plan for sports facilities. VAT compensation for sport, volunteering and culture shall be strengthened. The Government will present a binding and timely plan to close the income gap between agriculture and other groups. The escalation shall take place in cooperation with the parties to the agricultural agreement and be based on a new numerical basis. We will increase the industrial further processing of forests in Norway, among others. by ensuring more capital for the further development of the forest industry. The sale of State Forest properties shall be stopped. The Government will guarantee national power over fisheries resources. The regional policy objectives of employment and settlement in coastal communities are central. Fishing authorisations shall be managed in a manner that does not contribute to centralisation within regions or between parts of the country. The government will develop reindeer management with a three-fold objective of ecological, economic and cultural sustainability. The prices of national road and county road ferries shall be halved during the grossing-up period. A system of free ferries shall be established for islands and other unconnected communities to the mainland. The government will make all ferry connections with less than 100000 passengers annually free of charge. The government will pursue an offensive railway policy. Intercity expansion must continue. The Government will stop the further competitive deployment of rail passenger services and important rail infrastructure-related tasks. Our goal is that all households where it is permanently resident should have access to high-speed broadband during the ageing period. The government will conduct a fair climate policy that cuts emissions and creates jobs. The climate crisis is our greatest challenge, and sustainable use of natural resources is essential for the creation of value, jobs and settlement throughout the country. Climate and nature must be a framework for all policies. Norway’s emissions target shall be increased to 55 pst. by 2030. The objective concerns the entire economy, including the quota sector, and commits the entire government and all parts of society. The objectives shall be achieved. The Government shall establish an annual commitment budget for greenhouse gas emissions as part of the ordinary State budget. We will introduce concrete targets for emissions reduction for each sector in Norway and quickly put in place a new climate plan for the whole economy. The charging system shall contribute to a climate change that is effective and socially and geographically equitable. The CO 2 tax shall be gradually increased to approximately NOK 2000 up to 2030. A green tax reform for business will be implemented to stimulate increased investment in sustainable industries and green value chains based on renewable resources in Norway. Greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector shall be significantly reduced and the State shall cover a greater share of investment in the major collective projects in and around the major cities. We will actively use the forest as a central part of climate policy and develop a strategy to increase natural carbon storage in Norwegian nature. Policies shall contribute to the rapid growth of sustainable industries based on the competence of world-leading industry professionals. Here lies the gold in the Norwegian labour force. The oil and gas industries shall be developed, not phased out. Climate policy shall not be moralising and shall be fair in order to ensure broad popular support and mobilisation. The government will combat inequality and injustice. The fight against Differs-Norway is a struggle to preserve our social model. Poverty must be reduced, in particular that affecting families with children. Labour must be safe and ordinary people must pay less taxes on their own income. Fees that affect people most should be reduced, the trade-union deduction and the commuting deduction increased. Welfare services such as kindergarten and SFO are to be cheaper for everyone. Those with large assets and revenues shall contribute more to the community. Government wage differentials shall be reduced. The Government will present a series of measures to reduce high electricity costs, including a lower electricity charge, increased housing support, geographical price balancing of network rentals, enhanced consumer rights and increased production of Norwegian renewable energy. In the housing policy, the government is to expand the Husbank's societal tasks, target groups and loan frameworks and provide municipalities with stronger tools to help people enter the housing market. Hubs shall be made more accessible both physically and digitally and the first line shall be strengthened. Persons receiving redundancy benefits shall be revalidated if they are not completed by the Nav or Health Service. The rights of disabled people and institutions and organisations working for increased equality shall be strengthened. We will ban conversion therapy, present a new action plan for LHBT+ people and a new action plan against racism, extremism and radicalisation. A power cap for Sami language and a national Sami cultural promise shall be implemented. The government will focus on knowledge and practical learning throughout its life. All children shall be able to succeed in primary school. The key is several qualified teachers with more time for each student. We will remove the «separation» of teachers trained before 2014, retain the competence requirements beyond this and replace the four-dimensional requirement in mathematics with more accurate admission requirements for teacher training. In order to teach all children how to write, read and calculate, the early school effort should be reinforced. Practical skills must be valued and given greater emphasis in school. The government will start with a secondary school reform for more practical learning and preparation also for vocational secondary education. A trade union lift shall be carried out. It is an important goal for the government to ensure a place of learning for all young people qualified according to Vg2. Vocational schools will have a more important role to play in lifelong learning, and the government will implement a stepping-up plan in line with the needs of the labour market and in dialogue with the social partners. A wide range of labour skills reform shall be implemented and a long-term lifelong learning plan presented. The government will pursue an ambitious research and higher education policy. The quality of research and higher education is crucial for Norway’s success in creating values and addressing societal challenges nationally and globally. We will launch a reform for decentralised education across the country, including: through local training centres. The government will re-establish a fully-fledged higher education institution at Nesna by restoring primary school and kindergarten teacher education, as well as identifying other facilities that can be located at Campus Nesna. The government will reduce the maximum cost of kindergartens during 2022. We want to strengthen the educational norm and increase the proportion of skilled workers. Free SFOs for all first-class ratings shall be gradually introduced. The government will indent the law for private kindergartens. Government grants and parental benefits shall be granted to kindergartens, and municipalities shall be given greater opportunity to manage the financing and requirements of private kindergartens. The government will strengthen the universal welfare offer for all children and young people. The cash support scheme for children aged 12 to 18 months is maintained. For children between 18 and 24 months of age, a childcare allowance is established for those waiting in kindergarten. The government will give people throughout the country security in everyday life. No matter where you live, the community should set up when it really needs to. The government will prevent crime, protect the rule of law and strengthen the courts, civil courts and the legal certainty of people. The financial risk arising from proceedings before the courts shall be reduced. Victims of serious crime and relatives must be taken care of. Police, ambulance services, fire and rescue services, and civil defence that are more present and get faster, are essential for people’s security. The government will evaluate the effects of the near-police reform and establish 20 new posts in the police, and this work will start in 2022. The government will carry out an investigation commitment, strengthen the prosecution powers and present a contingency plan against violence and abuse against children and violence in close relations. The government will strengthen criminal law enforcement and improve the content of bail so that we can reduce relapses into new crime. We will also set up a comprehensive preparedness committee to assess how the overall resources of society should be optimised. The government will strengthen its efforts against cybercrime and digital vulnerability. The government will strengthen the Norwegian defence and end up with NATO 2 percentage points. Priority shall be given to defence in the north and military presence in the north of Norway. The government will implement an ambitious step-up plan for the employees of the Armed Forces Operational Section. The area structure of home protection shall be increased. The government will have a world-class public health and care service. The Community health and care service shall be accessible to everyone, whoever you are, and where you live. Patients must be listened to, prevention given priority and professionals at the forefront. A Health Personnel Commission shall be established to promote measures that ensure sufficient qualified health professionals throughout the country — in municipalities, in hospitals and at all stages. We will strengthen the local economy and increase the allocation of specialist health services. We want to strengthen public dental provision and focus on public health, especially measures for food and physical activity at school. We will implement a home reform for the elderly, with more people in care and care, welfare technology and organised housing. A rescue operation for the fixed doctors and the fixed medical device will be of high priority. Increased recruitment and stable medical coverage must be ensured throughout the country. A stepping-up plan for mental health will also be established in Norway. The escalation shall ensure ear-marked means of low-threshold mental health care without referral requirements. It shall also ensure increased capacity in the specialist health service and prevent the dismantling of bed places. Special attention should be paid to child and youth psychiatry and district psychiatric centres. The government will investigate changes in the management of our hospitals. The objective remains State ownership with strong regional, political and democratic governance and local management. Market penetration shall be reduced and the use of input-driven funding reduced. More of the selective establishment is to be moved to a local hospital, and local emergency preparedness and food supply are to be strengthened. A quality reform of child protection is to be implemented. Endangered children shall meet with competence, trust and time. Mental health care should be strengthened. Non-profit institutions shall be given priority over outsourcing and offers in the child protection sector. The government wants Norway to make a difference in the world. Norway shall take care of Norwegian interests abroad, contribute to strong international cooperation and a world order based on international law. Where Norway has advantages, in areas such as energy, climate and health, we shall make a difference internationally. Norwegian membership of NATO and the EEA Agreement underpins the Government. No application for EU membership shall be made during the period. The EEA Agreement action space shall be explored and used more actively. Work shall be targeted to defend Norwegian interests vis-à-vis the EU, with particular emphasis on ensuring national control in areas such as working life, energy and rail. Norway must show solidarity with people in need and take the lead in the fight against poverty and hunger. We want to use 1 pst. of gross domestic product to international efforts to achieve the UN objectives of social, economic and environmental sustainability. The government regards the UN's quota refugee system as the safest and fairst system to receive people in need of protection. A solidarity pot shall be built in the development budget in order to improve the conditions for people on the run. The fight against the use of tax havens must be strengthened and the government will work for an international convention on economic transparency. At the same time as the government strengthens Norwegian defence capabilities, the Defence shall also be able to contribute to joint efforts for international peace and security. Norway’s main peace project is located in the northern regions, and this is the government’s main strategic focus. The size will have a very important role to play in the period we are now going into. That's the government's conscious. The representatives in this room have valuable experience and knowledge. The different parties carry different traditions and cultures that together provide a representative national assembly of which we in Norway can be proud. The government wants good cooperation with all the parties and representatives of the Storting, for the benefit of the people we are to serve, for Norway and for Norway's role in the work of a better world.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-18.ana.ud239e606	The President will propose that the Government Declaration be discussed at a later meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-10-18.ana.ud239e637	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? – Nobody does, and the meeting has been cancelled.
