ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e28	For the sake of infection prevention, the President will propose that the public gallery be closed even during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative of Morten Stordalen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e35	On behalf of the representatives of Bård Hoksrud, Tor André Johnsen, Hans Andreas Limi, Terje Halleland, Gisle Meininger Saudland and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on some vehicle technical simplifications.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e40	The representative, Mr Kjønaas Kjos, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e45	On behalf of Silje Hemdal, Solveig Horne, Himanshu Gulati and myself, I will present a proposal for a representative on adult stem children's adoption.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e50	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e66	On Monday, the Stortinge received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Bent Höie, Nikolai Astrup and Knut Arild Hareide will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative of Ingvild Kjerkol.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e75	My question goes to the Minister of Health. Eleven months into the pandemic, the intensive capacity is still our gap point and the main reason why we have to shut down the virus and spread the new mutants. Intensive nurses we're totally dependent on, but we're training too few, at the same time too many people fall from. We can't take good care of those we have, by giving them good jobs, and we've become totally dependent on foreign intensive nurses to make it go around. When the government closed the border, it was for many Swedish and Danish intensive nurses to travel impractically to Norway to take care of our intensive care units. We clearly see how vulnerable we really are. The acute clinic at Oslo University Hospital states that up to 20 pst. are from Denmark and Sweden. In the rest of the country, intensive care units are also dependent on foreign intensive care providers. We are now working on bombs to put in place further work agreements for the Norwegians, who already state that they are starting to get very tired. Does the Council see that it is unfortunate that our intensive service has been made so vulnerable by being dependent on foreign intensive nurses? And how do the councils see that this is going to be solved over the winter, with mutated virus detected several places in the country now?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e84	I fully agree with the questioner's description of the situation, and my simple answer is really yes. This situation has put a magnifying glass on what is a challenge in Norwegian healthcare, both that one is very dependent on people coming from other countries to work in Norway — also on short assignments, weekends and that kind of thing — and that we have over time had too poor recruitment, especially by intensive nurses. There is some reason why the government, before the pandemic, started a stepping-up plan for the training of several intensive nurses, which the Ministry of Health and Welfare did together with the Ministry of Knowledge. That is also why I have said that we cannot await the evaluation of the Women’s Country Committee at this point, but have already taken action to build up intensive capacity in Norway by setting up 100 new education positions in intensive care, which health regions have been commissioned to do now in 2021, and at the same time said that both health regions and the Health Directorate must already start an investigation into what is to be the total intensive capacity in Norway in a normal post-pandemic situation. I believe that this is one of the areas that has shown that we are too vulnerable. We cannot wait for all the evaluations until we start the necessary processes, and that is to train enough intensive nurses. It's not done in a short time, it takes a long time. Therefore, it was important to get this work started immediately.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e89	After all, the government has allowed a situation of inadequacy to develop here. There are almost 500 intensive nurses who are going to retire over the next five years. It's not like we're educating the number of people we've set goals for ourselves, it shows the Riksrevision's review for the last five years very clearly. The Government Parties and the Advance Party have voted in favour of the Workers' Party's proposal for an escalation plan to increase the number of specialised nurses, and intensive nurses. The acute clinic at Oslo University Hospital also reports that it does not include funds for the 100 new educational positions that the government has commissioned the health regions to set up in 2021 and that the recruitment there is not going on. How have the Council of State and the government prioritised this, and what does the Council of State say to the OYS, which says that there is no money with the 100 positions?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e94	Firstly, the explanation that the government parties voted against the Labour Party's proposal is that it was already in place and started by the government. It is very common for the government parties to vote for opposition proposals that actually open doors. Then it's not right that it doesn't come with money. Health regions have had a significant increase in their budgets for 2021, just to carry out these new tasks. We don't earmark the funding for health regions very much, but that they've got more money to do this, there's no doubt about it. The mission is clear, and there is a number that is put first in collaboration with the Norwegian Nurse Association, which made an assessment of what will be a realistic number in 2021. Then we checked that number up with the RHFs, and the feedback from there was that this was a realistic number to put in place in 2021. It may have to be increased in the years to come, but we have to get back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e101	There will be follow-up questions – first Ingvild Kjerkol.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e106	Now, both the English and the South African mutated virus have been detected in several places in the country. The country's second largest city, Bergen, had to shut down completely. It has become a ghost town thanks to an outbreak in two large construction sites. At Haukeland University Hospital in Bergen, the head of the intensive medical department, Siril Iren Sagstad, reports that they are struggling very hard to fill the shift shifts on weekends now that foreign intensive nurses are lacking. They're worried and they're working on a bomb to get ready for a possible crisis. My question to the Council of State is whether this vulnerability in Bergen was part of the assessment when the government said no to the City Council in Bergen's wish to close these construction sites.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e113	I think there's not a perfectly obvious connection between the two issues. Clearly, the vulnerability to our intensive places, linked to the fact that we have a very strict entry regime now, is real, and we have a dialogue with the RHFs about it. It's not just about Bergen, it's not about the East and it's about North Norway. We're working with health regions to look at possible solutions there, but I'm also very clear that I don't want to go back to what was the scheme before, namely that the kind of health professionals could get into Norway and start working after just one negative test and use of mouthbands. I mean, as the situation is now, it's too high a risk. We have to look for other solutions, and I will have a separate meeting with the four health regions in the morning to review the possibilities available, both in what we have, and also in any other solutions. But we have, among other things, a national system for looking at healthcare professionals in Norway as a whole. There could be one possibility. Then we're in the process of vaccination, and that could be another important possibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e122	Ingvild Kjerkol – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e127	The number of intensive care centres in Norwegian hospitals has not increased during the pandemic. Just as before the coronary virus paralyzed this country, we still have 289 intensive sites. These are figures according to the government's own department. The working party thinks it's a little incomprehensible that the number is exactly the same one year after the beginning of the pandemic. Because looking at a strategy one year ago, the point was to buy time to strengthen health care preparedness. In the morning today, we could also read in today's business that the hospital doctors actually sabotage the health minister's emergency plan, which says that we can get up to 1,200 places. Why is it that the same number of places are counted today, one year after the pandemic hit us? And what does the State Council answer to the professional community that says that we're actually more difficult now than we were in March last year?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e135	The answer to that really lies in the representative's main question. I think that what has happened as a consequence of us now having stricter rules to allow intensive nurses to cross the border, illustrates very well why we are not in a situation in which we could have increased the number of normal intensities, because it is primarily about access to health professionals who have that competence. The top competence that would be an ordinary place, of course, we don't have the opportunity to give in such a short time. This does not mean that we do not have plans to scale up the intensive capacity, and I have explained that in Stortinget in several rounds – up to 1,200 places if necessary. But I fully agree – and I have underlined that time and again – with the doctors and nurses who are working on this, and who say that this will not be 1,200 places that have the same quality as the 289 ordinary places. It's quite obvious, it'll almost feel like a war situation in hospitals if we get into that situation and these places are going to have to be used, and we're doing everything we can in society to avoid getting into that situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e144	Kjersti Top – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e149	The intensive capacity in Norway is alarmingly low. The government is not responsible. One has not increased capacity before or under the pandemic, and it is only after one year of pandemic and health crisis that health professionals have been asked to outsource the need for intensive capacity. The Council of State referred to a crisis plan to put in place 1,200 intensive sites. This crisis plan is now being sabotaged by an almost collective professional community, which believes that the plans are totally unrealistic: ‘I can promise you that it will not work.’ "For those of us who are engaged in intensive medicine, we are happy to see something that makes these plans credible. These are paper plans.’» ‘These are not plans that belong to a health care system that is intended to deliver high quality.’ How can the Council of State stand and promise an emergency plan for intensive places that are then completely slaughtered and that have so little difficulty out in the services?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e165	I agree with the description given by the professionals that these will not be intensive places of the same quality as the 289 ordinary places. I've been very clear all along. And it wouldn't have been possible either. It's about the fact that someone then had to have a very large access to highly specialised personnel, which it is not possible to get in such a period of time. It doesn't mean that not much has happened to actually allow these places to escalate. It is not that for each extra space above the 289, one immediately drops to a significantly lower quality – on the contrary. This is an escalation that we're doing everything to avoid getting into. But to say something about what has been done since these plans were drawn up: 3 100 people have now been trained in internal training in intensive treatment of covid-19 places since March. So there are 3,100 employees in health care companies who have been trained to go in and fill in these places. There is a sharp increase in the number of respirators, which was also a challenge – a significant increase in relation to the situation in March.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e174	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e179	I will not ask questions to the Minister of Health, but to the Minister of Transport. Making a difference, helping to clean up bureaucracy, hopeless rules, laws and regulations, is something we in the Progress Party are incredibly happy and busy doing, whether it's big or small, because it's actually about making things easier in everyday life for people – like cutting through and making sure that Johnny Lie, who was about to put his life in ruins because new rules and bureaucracy would suddenly take away his driver's license and job because he didn't look at one eye. Fortunately, the Progress Party was cut through and changed the legislation, which ensured that both Johnny and approx. 200 other drivers kept their job. A short time ago, we were able to read in the Sunnmørspost about the Bears Roald, who, together with others, also suddenly experience having their lives turned upside down because of directives and bureaucracy that say that with reduced vision, like the Bears, you will no longer have to keep the driving licence, and the Bears feel that without a driver's license he no longer has a job. This is turning people's lives upside down. The worst thing is that the eye doctor who examined the Bears says that he can drive a car very well, and that he should therefore keep the driving licence. But bureaucracy, which has neither seen nor heard of Bears, makes a decision that has great consequences for the lives of Bears. They don't care about this. And last week's answer from the Hareide Council cannot be interpreted in any other way than the fact that it is more important to stay with the bureaucrats in Brussels than to help solve the everyday challenges for ordinary people in Norway. My question to the Council of State is: Do the Council of State dare to challenge bureaucracy, both in Norway and in Brussels, to find a solution for the Bears and others in the same situation, or is it that the eye doctor, who has seen the person, is less important than the desk bureaucrats in Brussels?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e190	There is an important question for the representative, Hoksrud, to come here. I believe that we all have a wish and a goal that everyone who has a case in the bureaucracy should experience it, that their case should be seen, and that is my wish. Then we have promises and rules. Now the representative Hoksrud said that it is natural for him to ask questions to the Minister for Transport, but it is actually such that some of the issues that the representative Hoksrud addressed could go to the Minister for Health. For example, vision is very important if you are able to drive a car. We were in this room yesterday and discussed, for example, the health certificate for people over 80 years of age, and that kind of question discusses us because we are concerned with traffic safety. I think we should be very aware that when we drive a car, we have a responsibility over and above ourselves. We are responsible for others, and I am pleased that we have good rules, but I am concerned that the rules should be perceived as objective and fair, and that no individual should get a wrong assessment. But if there are health reasons why a car cannot drive and be safe, I am concerned that then it is better to get the feedback that a car cannot run, precisely in terms of road safety. Norway is the country in the world that is cutting the highest; we are world champions in traffic safety. Nevertheless, there is a poor comfort for the 95 people and their relatives who lost their lives in 2020 traffic. So I'm concerned that we're going to follow the rules. It shall be objective, it shall not be unfair, but yes, strict rules in this area are necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e199	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I would like to see him go into it, that you actually think that an eye doctor can have good competence on that kind of question, so I hope the Council of State will look a little further on it. I want to ask the Council of State what he and the government were thinking about when they opened up to the municipalities to introduce zero-emission zones where they want to be in the municipalities, which means that the Council of State and the government have now made sure that the political majority in Oslo is in full swing with a home-alone party. The Greens are in the process of blocking the entire city by refusing petrol and diesel cars, preferably throughout the municipality. This is going to have huge consequences for a lot of people, who will no longer be able to drive into town unless you can afford to drive an electric car, and many families with children do not have that opportunity. I think this is especially for a party like the Christian People's Party, which claims that they are busy with families with children, and that understands how challenging it is for many to go up every day, with the raising and delivery of children, etc. Does the Council of State think that this is in the interests of the citizens, or does he perhaps start to regret when he sees how the Greens and the City Council are about to hit Oslo as a citizen, where some types of cars are refused to drive in?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e208	The President should perhaps point out that, according to the Rules of Procedure, follow-up questions should follow up on the main issue. The President does not see any direct line between these two, but leaves the word to the Council of State to consider how he will answer the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e213	That's a good question, so I'd like to take the challenge and answer. It's true that the government says that we want to sort out zero emission zones inside the cities. It's a tool that we know the big cities want to do. It has, among other things, In the city we are now in, action has been taken – measures that are also welcome by the inhabitants. We have a major climate crisis. We see that more and more people buy zero-run trucks, and I thought it was natural that the municipalities were allowed to look at the possibilities. So that's why we're doing this right now. But we have also provided clear guidance for it. For example, a city like Drammen can't enter a zero-drop zone above E18 and stop traffic there. We've said that we can't have that kind of leadership. But within the bounded, smaller areas, we look at the possibilities for that. And when local authorities want to look at those kinds of possibilities, it would be very strange if we were to stop what could be a good climate action. So that's the possibility we want to look at.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e222	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e228	My question goes to the Minister of State. Government planning guidelines and their follow-up are currently giving strong guidance on how local communities will evolve around the country. It has been shown to have some obvious problems, including: in the case of soil protection. With the consolidation policy that the state requires around collective nodes, more and more areas with cultivated land are at risk of being built. The guidelines do not mention soil protection once in a while, but repeatedly stress the importance of congestion policy. The second problem is that the State guidelines clearly contribute to strong centralisation within municipalities. In Akershus we see this clearly. The guidelines lead to the revised 80/20 rule, which means that municipalities are only allowed to expand one location. The government says it wants to concentrate people around the collective hub, so that they can get good collective services and reduce transport and greenhouse gas emissions. The consequences have become absurd, as is often the case when a person sits in the city and has to arrange solutions for communities around the districts. For example, the municipality of Nesodden is not allowed to expand the area on Fagerstrand because the county says there is too much car use. Another example is Aurskog-Høland. There must be 80 pst. of the growth come in the bear's hose. The municipality is larger than the rest of Lower Romerike combined, yet Aurskog-Høland is to be treated in the same way as Skedsmo and Lørenskog. In Enebakk, you're not allowed to develop the church district as a dense place, even though it's the administrative center in the municipality. It is obvious that state planning guidelines today are a coercive street for many municipalities. It threatens soil protection, hinders local development and weakens the possibility of popular governance in local communities. Does the Council of State have concrete plans to strengthen the position of soil protection in social planning, and will it ensure that local democracy in municipalities such as Nesodden, Aurskog-Høland and Enebak is much more able to govern its own land policy and have a real opportunity to safeguard soil protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e243	The government is very busy caring for food soils, and the re-disposal of food soils under the Law on Planning and Building has been greatly reduced in recent years. The majority adopted an ambitious target in 2015 on what this redispatch would be every year and by 2020, and that target seems to have been achieved. That's good. One of the reasons why it was achieved is that we have government planning guidelines, which I perceive the representative is against. I think it's positive that you're building up in the vicinity of a collective node, just for the sake of soil protection. The alternative to building closer around the collective nodes and getting more back on the investment of the large-scale community in large-scale collective projects is to build widely, so that the investment of the large-scale society in collective services can be minimised. I mean, for example. it is positive that the municipality of Bærum chooses to build more in Sandvika, where much has been invested in the double-track railway westwards from Oslo. Similarly, the E18 project could contribute to more housing around railway stations in that region. The fornebu development, which is concentrated, provides a basis for the Fornebuban, to which the State and private landowners also contribute. There are many good examples of a fastening around nodes that are in a positive social development. It's important to say that these plan guidelines don't apply in the same way everywhere. There is much greater flexibility in spread-built strokes than there are in strokes where there is greater pressure.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e254	I thank you for your answer. On 8 January, a joint letter was issued by the Councils of State of Bollestad and Astrup on soil protection and the UN's sustainability goal. It says: ‘Maintenance of cultivated land is a national interest. In order to achieve enhanced preparedness and food security, we need to maintain agricultural production resources throughout the country. We trust that municipalities will follow up the soil protection strategy and contribute to the reduction of the re-disposal of cultivated land.’ I could not agree more, but the problem is that the municipalities are being tested by state authorities when they try to follow this up. Historically, cities and agglomerations where the largest farms were located were the best food soil. Collective nodes grew from these sites. Municipalities trying to protect the food soil by laying housing fields outside the collective node are being turned in their heads with demands for densification and bans on scattered housing construction. We get a strong centralization within the municipality. Does not the Council of State see that this leads to the depopulation of many fringes, the overrun of local democracy, and the sacrifice of the food earth?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e270	No, I don't see it. On the contrary, I believe that the description provided by the representative does not match the reality. It's not that it's a ban on scattered housing, but it's that we have government planning guidelines to take care of the areas where there's pressure, in particular, to ensure that we get a more concentrated development around the node. This helps to make us less dependent on cars, which is good for the climate, and to make more efficient use of the infrastructure in society. It's positive. But there is absolutely no ban on scattered housing. In areas where there is no pressure, it would be natural to weigh these considerations in a slightly different way than in press areas. In particular, soil protection considerations. The letter that the Council of State, Bollestad and I sent out together, just underlines that we are concerned that we should care for good food, even when it stands up to the location of new dwellings.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e277	It opens for follow-up questions – first Sigbjørn Gülsvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e282	The problem is that you don't have government planning guidelines – that's good. The problem is that one has government planning guidelines that have become a breakbone for powerful centralisation, where there is pressure for the reduction of cultivated land – as in my own municipality of origin, Lillestrøm, where there is strong pressure on cultivated land around the largest collective nodes. At the same time, the depopulation of settlements and agglomerations is given to other sites, which do not provide sufficient room for development. Aurskog-Høland has already been mentioned. In Aurskog-Høland, which is almost a quarter of the entire Akershuset in area, there is defined one node – The bear snake. In other places in the municipality – Setskog, Rømskog, Lierfoss, Momoen, Hemnes – there is a clear limitation on the development of those dense places, with the risk of having schools and kindergartens laid down, because one should have massive pressure around a few nodes. Does the Council of State agree that there is a reasonable development, or is it willing to change the planning guidelines?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e287	There is reason to recall that it is not the State that has pointed out which node should be in the relevant municipalities that the representative mentions. It's the municipalities themselves that have done it. So the question is, is the representative of or against local self-government? I believe that the municipalities themselves must have great power and influence in terms of the development of their own municipalities, even in terms of defining what should be a hub in their own area. In fact, I do not believe it is my job to have opinions on how to deal with exactly these questions in individual municipalities. The representative and I have discussed this also in the case of built-in strips. Until it's worth mentioning that in a city like Oslo, the alternative to having node development would really be to get rid of functioning small-town areas between the nodes. I think that would be unfortunate for this city's identity. We have to make sure that we also adapt these state plan guidelines to the local reality that we're in the middle of, and it will vary a little, depending on whether you're in urban cities or in scattered areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e294	Sigbjørn Gülsvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e299	It is precisely the massive centralisation that the planning guidelines build up around it, which is a challenge for both the small building around the nodes and, in addition, soil protection. It sees one clearly in both Lørenskog, Lillestrøm and other central places in Rome. One says that it is clear for the municipalities to define the nodes they want – no, which in Aurskog-Høland should define a single node where development is to be, instead of being able to develop the whole municipality and get a balanced development. Does the Council not see that the guidelines, as they are designed, are a driving force for further centralisation? It is possible that the Council of State has a positive attitude to it, but it will contribute to the depletion of many communities, both in Akershus and elsewhere in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e304	Take, for example: Lillestrøm municipality. I believe it is only positive that we have had a ten-minute train connection between Oslo S and Lillestrøm, which has given strong growth around the railway station at Lillestrøm. It has made it easier to get here from Lillestrøm than it is from many places in this city, and vice versa. It helps us to link housing and labour markets together, and to make better use of the large billions of investment we make in the budget of the Hareides Council. This does not mean that Lillestrøm municipality can also develop other parts of its municipality, but a good city and a good town develop from within and out and not the opposite. We also see that more and more, not least young people, are seeking urban qualities in the districts as well. Then it is important that we contribute to building under it through good government planning guidelines. There is no ban in scattered strata on building just scattered, but we have government planning guidelines that are specifically to take care of the press areas, and I think that is positive. I think we're in disagreement here.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e309	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e315	I have a question for Bent Höie. We have a health crisis in psychiatry. At the NRK yesterday, we heard from adults working in the Cross on their necks that more children are thinking about taking their own lives because of the pandemic and the measures. Many are lonely and mentally ill. There has been a large increase in eating disorders. At a hospital in Oslo, they had 67 patients in outpatient clinic in 2018. Now the number has increased by 40 pst. In Westfold, the increase has become almost 50 pst. out of this year. In Haukeland, the clinic director Liv Kleve said, "We've never been so busy. Patients are sicker than usual, and sometimes younger.’ The government has a crisis package of $10 billion, but they have proposed $22 million. for mental health. These resources are a joke and show that the government has not taken seriously. The occupational environment and the sick have shown the seriousness of the situation. SV has requested a crisis package for mental health. Can we finally expect a crisis package for mental health protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e326	Firstly, I must say that I really share the representative's concern about the developments we have seen in particular in the last six months of 2020, and it is quite right, as the representative says, that we have seen here an increased referral of young people, which is more seriously ill than what has been seen in the past. It worries us very much, and it may well have to do with the consequences of some of the measures that have been aimed at the pandemic that especially affect young people in an important part of their lives. For most of us, it's hard to live the way we've lived now for almost a year, but for some it gets so serious that it triggers serious illness. Then it's very important that you get help. I'm also very happy to see that many of those referred are getting help. There is an increase in the number of people receiving help, and fortunately we have also seen that, although the waiting time has generally increased in 2020, the waiting time for mental health and drug use has continued to decline. I'm very happy about that, because that means there's a lot of work going on. The government has spent significantly more than the 22 million to which the representative refers to strengthening mental health. Among other things, we have increased the allocation to the hospitals for 2021 by over 6.5 billion. kr, and there are clear leads to the prioritisation of mental health. We have also increased the appropriations for mental health in municipalities, among others. 170 million. D to the children’s and young people’s mental health escalation plan, which should be very clear for these purposes. On 29 January I presented a package of measures for children, young people and students of 2.2 billion. kr. But even if you donate a lot of money, the main challenge will be to give a clear enough offer with all the professionals present. Fortunately, mental health services have been greatly improved before the pandemic hit our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e335	We need to talk about the waiting times that the Council of State is using. In the report of the National Centre for the Experience of Mental Health, 92 pp. by the informants that the treatment had been completed before completion of the treatment. It is not so strange that the Minister of Health may say that the waiting times have not been so much longer, that the waiting times are no longer, when many are actually rejected or the treatment ends prematurely. The SINTEF annual report shows that there are no more annual works per capita for mental health protection for adults – zero. Under this government, we have lost 500 places in the day-to-day treatment for the mentally ill. In this exceptional situation, will the Council of State ensure that no spaces are cut?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e340	I want to make it clear that one of the things that makes us better rusted in mental health, before the pandemic hit, among other things. is that the government’s clear priority of mental health and drug work aimed at children and young people has contributed to the development of 2600 more annual work in municipal mental health and drug treatment, and they have only come in the years 2016–2020. There has been a sharp increase, among other things. in the case of psychologists in the municipalities, simply because, contrary to parts of the opposition's votes, the government introduced a legal requirement that municipalities should have psychological competence. We have also seen a sharp increase in school health services and health centres, and we have had a clear prioritisation of mental health in specialist health services, among others. helped to reduce the waiting time for children and adolescents by 10 days during this period. Then we can always have a discussion about what is the right offer to give – daily places or follow-up offers where children live.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e347	It opens for follow-up questions – first Freddy André Upper Courtyard.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e352	The Health Directorate’s report ‘Activity Development 2020 by October’ shows that more children and young people have been diagnosed by their supervisor. In the Bufdir status report of September last year, it was reported that: that more children and young people have a longer stay in an emergency unit a possible increase in eating problems among young girls a possible increase in the number of references to social distress; The report also points to increasing solitude among students. Then the health care provider at the school is very important. But despite the fact that the government made a national recommendation that health care providers in schools, for example, should not be used for other tasks, we see that many municipalities are now doing just that. I have several examples of that from my own home country. My question to the Minister of Health is: Will he intervene, so that children and young people have a health care provider to go to in all municipalities, when only recommendations do not work?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e371	I very much agree with the concern raised by the representative. There has also been a recurring issue in the meetings I have had during the pandemic, both with the state administrators and when I have talked to the municipalities and KS directly – a concern that one person will redispatch health care providers to other work in the municipalities in this situation. The clear message from both the government and the Health Directorate to the municipalities has been that they should not, and that it is important that they are present, not least in schools and kindergartens, so that the children have a place to go when they feel that things are difficult. I can unfortunately not exclude that some municipalities either make wrong assessments in our opinion, or in an extreme crisis situation where there is really all the man to the pumps for a short period of time, have to do other priorities. However, the main rule is that health care providers should be present for children and young people in this situation. I am very happy that there are significantly more of these out in the municipalities now than when we took responsibility for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e378	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e383	The situation now is quite serious. There is no crisis package for mental health, and there are cuts in the offer in many places. In my locality, the Glaum Valley, I read about a young cancer patient who needs the help of the BUP, child and youth psychiatric outpatient clinic, and who is recommended to use the psychopharmaceutical. And now there's four months waiting time in the BUP for young people who need help. In Finland, there are also places for young people who are struggling with mental health. It's going to be less. You're centralizing, you're putting down spaces, and you're going to make out-of-office teams. Those who work on this say at least that they have to use almost the entire working day for driving a car and not for direct patient contact. Young people in the districts are extremely hard hit by this. At a time when the pandemic is running, this kind of reorganization and closure of places is very serious. Does the Council of State feel that it is right to place young people in need of mental health care now?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e392	No, I am very concerned that a person should strengthen the offer of mental health care for children and young people both in municipalities and in specialist health services. But the discussion to which Andersen's representative invites us is a discussion of whether the best help to give to children and young people is daily places, or whether there are more people who could have better benefit from getting the help where they live, at home, at school, and in leisure. There is enough evidence that some places should help more children where they live. For children and young people, being admitted to an institution over a longer period of time is a major additional burden. For some it's true, because they're so seriously ill that it's the right help to give, but for others it would be more correct that they got the good, specialized help where they live. That's why it's going to be all the way to balance whether we're going to use our good professionals to work in daily places or to work out in teams, along with the good professionals in the municipalities and as a team around the individual patient.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e397	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e403	My question was now, in the midst of a crisis, when serious problems with young people related to mental health were reported. In three years, 15 bed places in the BUP daily division in the Inland have disappeared. What we're talking about then is, for example, It's Lillehammer's chanter. I do not disagree with the Council of State when he says that there may be such a balance, but the problem is that the help is getting smaller. And when you centralize this, people are going to sit on Hamar and drive up to Valdres and the Fernes and spend their whole working day sitting in a car, instead of being able to locate this near the youth. Take, for example: what is happening in the South, where young people who have suffered from cancer and who are struggling with it in the middle of a pandemic get no of the BUP and are referred back to the primary doctor, with the recommendation to use the psychopharmaceutical: Does the Council of State think that there is a proper act now, in the middle of a pandemic?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e410	The last is a concrete patient history, which I cannot, of course, decide on, but the professional guidelines for the treatment of young people are that the psychopharmaca should not be the first choice. One shall test other methods first. If one of these has not acted in line with that, it is a matter that needs to be assessed in concrete terms. To the second question, the question is whether there should be changes in the offer because we are in a crisis. Then I think we should not let necessary changes and improvements in offers stop because we are in a crisis. The example of the representative, the Circuit Sedan at Lillehammer, is a 24-hour offer. Some of the places on average have not been used. Then it is quite natural that an assessment of whether more people can get better help by having a few more teams working abroad, not least with all the new annual work that has taken place in the municipalities, in the field of mental health, so that the specialist health service and the community health service work more together around the individual who needs help. It doesn't always make sense that the patient is going to health care. Sometimes it also makes sense for healthcare to get where the patient is.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e417	Tellef Inge Mørland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e422	Everything's going to be fine, it's outside of many kindergartens. That's what babysitting will be allowed to believe. But we at Stortinget and the Minister of Health must not believe for a moment that everything is going well, because something actually breaks and cannot be repaired. A person who takes his life because one no longer endures the solitude of the corona measures is as much a coronary death as one who dies of the virus itself. But what can actually be prevented and repaired, we need a plan for. We need a power plan for mental health in and after the corona. Because even if it is now necessary, something goes wrong when you are told not to go on a visit or have a visit. A new study from Opinion shows that one in three is now mentally struggling under the pandemic. Höie says that the supply of mental health has improved considerably before the pandemic. Hoie has also been mad at her own lack of follow-up to the golden rule of mental health. And it's a paradox that you're now making offers like this. Circuit tuner. Does the government at all have a clear strategy to prevent and repair the damage the pandemic is now giving to people's mental health, and what does it look like then?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e429	The answer to that is yes. This is why we have made considerable efforts to strengthen the supply of mental health at all levels: at the prevention level, not least through voluntary and non-profit organisations, through the appropriations we have given them to work prevention – early interventions, helplines. We have provided significant funds to the municipalities to further strengthen the offer in this situation, and significant funds to the hospitals. So it's quite right that the representative says, that when the pandemic is over, and most of us go back to the normal everyday life that we're all now longing for and so much to appreciate, there will be people who are left with mental health challenges that won't solve themselves just because everyday life gets back to normal, and who will need more help. That's why it's important that we continue our efforts and give them help. So I want to say that it's help to get, that's hope, because we know that many people who get mental health challenges get very good help that has very good effect. We don't have to create the impression that if you get a mental challenge, you have a chronic disease that you can't get help for. On the contrary, a lot of people get good help to help.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e436	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e441	I have a question for the Minister for Transport: Norway, with its long coast and many fjords, is a ferry country. People and businesses depend on good ferry connections every day, but the ferries have become very expensive, ferry prices have increased dramatically in recent years. Let me give you one example, that's the ferry on E6 over Tysfjorden. Tysfjorden actually shares Norway in two, so the link Bognes-Skarberget is a very important ferry link. In 2013, it cost 95 kroner to pass the ferry connection with the car and drive, while last year it cost 190 kroner, i.e. a double in the years this government has managed. For those who depend on the ferry every day, this becomes a lot of money. The working party will now take a force to halve the holiday prices. So this government is doing the opposite; in many places the ferry prices have doubled. The connection I mentioned, over Tysfjorden, is a national road ferry service, and it is entirely the responsibility of the State and the Minister for Transport – both the link and the prices. My question is simply: why does this government increase ferry prices so much?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e452	There's no doubt that we're totally dependent on the ferries, and for many, it's not an alternative to travel another place, one is completely dependent on them. There are several reasons why we've had a prism. One of the reasons is that we've got a better offer, I think people think it's good that the ferries go more often. Today, when it comes to the national road ferries, we use over six billion. kr on them. We pay 40 pst. of the ticket price, and we know that if we go back 7-8 years in time, the part we spent on the national road ferries from Stortinget's side was 700-800 million. kr. Now this is double, so it's 1.6 billion. kr. One of the reasons is, among other things, that we have chosen to get zero emission ferries. I think that's very good, it's in line with the climate challenge we have, and that's important. What we know is that there is then a large investment cost at the start, and then often the operating costs of the type of ferry are lower. We've also used 1.6 billion from the government's side. kr to Innovation Norway, to the Research Council, to Enova to help and develop that technology. On the highways, we've come very far in just those areas. So we've introduced AutoPASS. This means that it has become more expensive for the car, but it is free to be passengers on the ferries, among other things. on the national road ferries that have AutoPASS, we have obtained it. We have now also started a work to look at the discount scheme. The representative, Sverre Myrli, took part in that debate. I think it's also important that we look at how we can do it. But I share the concern that the ferry prices have increased too much. Let's see what we can do with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e467	I thank you for the answer, but I don't think exactly the Minister of Transport is willing to do anything about ferry prices. It's kind of a strange argument that because a guy uses new technology, the price is going to increase. If we build new railways and use new technologies, we don't increase the ticket price on the train, and if buses with new technologies and new fuel worms are used, the price of the bus ticket will not increase for that reason. So that's a little bit of a strange reasoning. It's possible to find solutions if you want. Solutions have been found, for example: in order to finance the collective offer, which is actually a municipal responsibility, but where the county municipalities and the state have found good solutions in cooperation. The same is true of erasing tolls, which have been important to this government. A solution has been found both for highways and for county roads. So if it's political will, it's possible to do something about the ferry tariffs, both on national road ferries and on county road ferries. Isn't that the government's will?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e474	So, as I said, we've increased the number of highways from 700 to 800 million. DKK to SEK 1.6 billion. kr. It's a double in these years, and it's been very important. So I think the Norwegian population is very concerned that we're going to make our vacations more climate-friendly and environmentally friendly, and we know that it's an investment that we'll benefit from later. Take, for example, Anda-Lote, which now has zero emission journeys. There we know that the operating costs of running the ferry today are the same price for a coffee cup and a swallow – a much lower operating cost. So now we have a pretty big investment cost because of what we're doing. We've also added 100 million. NOK 2021, and we have SEK 150 million. kr for increased border charges for the county, just to do something about the holiday prices in the last two years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e481	There will be follow-up questions – first Fredric Holen Bjørdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e487	People along the coast now pay almost three billion. kr in the year to travel with ferries, and prices are increasing year by year. This is a tax on people's use of the road network in the districts, and it's a tax that needs to be reduced. My county, Møre and Romsdal, are already squabbling under the combination of environmental requirements, more expensive supply and government's weak county economy, and it is quite unmistakable that ferry companies should be able to significantly reduce ferry prices on their own. The state is forced to set up, as the Labour Party is now proposing, with halved ferry prices, which so far have received a rather lukewarm response from the government. My question becomes simple: Do not the state councils of the ferries in More and Romesdal believe that cheaper ferries will strengthen the competitiveness of industry along the coast, strengthen the bus and labour market regions and make it more attractive to want to bus and live in the districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e492	Well, I have such absolute faith in those who feel that the ferry prices have increased too much. The vacationers have paid tolls long before we have discussed tolls in this room, for this has been on the ferries. The vacationers have accepted that they pay for the ferries – I have grown up with ferries myself – and I think it is important that that price is not too high, so we have the legitimacy of it. But we can't make it as simple as that. We've said that we should look at the distribution we have for the county. The county from which the representative comes is a state with significant surpluses over the last few years. Nevertheless, the ferry prices have increased significantly in the county, and I think that the county should have the opportunity to control the prices, regulation and supply of the county holidays. So on national roads, we've increased the permissions considerably to make sure that prices don't increase too much.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e497	Kirsti Leirtrö – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e502	Our coast wears. That's where our big export industries are. Recruitment and closed borders make the situation extra precarious. People have to afford to live there. The working party takes this seriously. One challenge is the huge advance they have to put in to get 50 pst. Discount on ferry trips. It makes the differences between people increase. Those who can afford the best get half the price. The working party promoted during the harvest a proposal to reduce the differences. The size decided to ask the government to assess lower advance amounts for AutoPASS for ferry and that this is assessed for all tariff groups. What will the Council of State do with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e509	We'd like to ask the State Road Service to take a look at the discount system. Today one has to pay 3,900 kroner for each passenger car in order to be able to take part in the discount. It's a pretty high sum. For heavy transport he is considerably higher. Many people who have bad advice can't afford to take part in the discount, which is quite big for the vacations. That is why we have asked the State Road Service for a review of it. They will implement it in order to achieve a better distribution. So it won't solve everything, it's clear. Today, those who travel most with the ferries and have the ability to use the discount schemes are those who also participate in the biggest discounts. If you do that, you get more people to participate in the discounts, it's actually a zero-sum game. But we think it's important, as the representative of Leirtrø points out here, to look at this system and make it fairer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e514	Cecilie Myrseth – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e519	My follow-up question goes to the Minister of State. The economy of the counties is very important in the matter of ferries and has been referred to over time as both strut and what is worse for word use, for good reason. For the Nordic part, for example, the conversion of the income system meant losses of more than 480 million. kr. In addition, we know that the aftermath on the county roads is increasing by 2.5 billion. kr per year. That means you have a lot to strangle with because of this government. Let me do an example, also from Northern Ireland, that would add green. When they got 3 out of 24 ferry connections on electricity, it cost 163 million. kr just to put the charging infrastructure in place. You got 50 million. kr in support from Enova. That means that the extra cost was $113 million. kr. My question is, why does this government not be able to see the injustice that is happening, and will do something about the increased transfers?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e528	Under this government, the money that the county has on the book doubled from 5 billion. NOK 10 to SEK 10 billion. kr. It's an expression that the counties have actually evenly overrun with profits. To a very large extent, Northernland, which has had solid operating profits throughout this period, with low debt and almost 1 billion. kr on book. So the description that Nordland has come out particularly badly under this government is not a description that I share. On the contrary, I would say that Northland is among the states that have just a good and solid economy, which have had solid profits, and which have the opportunity to make priorities within the economic framework that they have at their disposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e533	Helge André Njåstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e538	I'm used to waiting for the ferry, so wait for the trip to ask questions. I was also going to ask the follow-up question to the municipal minister. I think it's a little ironic that the Labour Party in 2010 shifted responsibility away from the Minister of Transport, and ten years later he's been asking them about a matter they've given to their own state politicians, and they've failed to totally reduce the ferry prices. I was also going to ask the municipality minister, who is now responsible for putting the county councils in place, about the situation in Norwegian county municipalities. Now he answered in part the question to the Labour Party that he is very good – it is 5 billion. kr more on the book in Norwegian county municipalities today than it was when the responsibility was transferred to county municipalities. The county councils have ample room for action to make their own priorities. My question is, when the Labour Party, the largest opposition party here in the Chamber, shows such a distrust of the state level, is it then that one re-assess having a county municipality at all, when one does not trust that they have room for action? And is there at least room to consider taking more ferries back to the state when those who were the architects behind moving them, thought it was a bad idea ten years later?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e549	I don't think we're going to draw such a far-reaching conclusion from this particular question that we're going to abolish the state level. The representative knows the Right's primary view on this matter, but I believe that once we have county municipalities, they have meaningful tasks to do as community developers. So it makes sense that they have both transferred together the road administration and that they are also responsible for the county roads and can see these priorities in the context. There's some logic in that. So, of course, it's up to the states to give priority to the tasks they think are the most important in their region, within the money they have at their disposal. It is the task of the state to ensure that the states have the framework they need to be able to carry out their tasks in a good way. The responsibility of this government has been taken, and we will continue to assume that responsibility in the future, including in the case of ferries. We've done a lot to strengthen the holiday economy in recent years. We have to keep doing that and make sure that they have a good enough economy to provide a good ferry service in all regions where it's up to date.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e557	Helge André Njåstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e562	It's quite right that the Council of State says we've done a lot. It is the cooperation between the government party and the Progress Party that strengthened the economy of the ferries, and one that has strengthened the general municipal economy, so that both municipalities and county municipalities have more on book, have a larger surplus and have a larger room for action. So it's very ironic that the Workers' Party's nest leader, the cross, sits in the county and votes against using the space he's been given by this mass destruction, at the same time giving the impression in the programming process that they can solve it nationally. I'll give the council another chance to reflect a little bit around the action space in Norwegian county municipalities. He named the economy of the Nordic countries. I know that More and Romsdal have also had surplus. My home country of Vestland has had a surplus. However, there is a higher price for distribution. What's the truth about the county councils is that they're run by the red-green parties. Same as now, prices are the responsibility of the state, they have had the opportunity to put them down. They have chosen not to do so. Can the Council of State say anything about the space for action in other counties to reduce ferry prices if they give it local priority?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e569	Until 2010, we had a national regulation for ferries, which were followed everywhere, of course. This meant a slight increase in holiday prices each year. After transferring some ferries to the counties, we have seen a gradual increase in ferry prices in addition to what is stated in the state regulation in this area. In the Nordic countries, some sections have chosen to go far beyond what has been the state’s norm for this. It was, for example: suggested, if I do not remember completely incorrectly, 68 pst. increase of tariffs on a connection – above what is stated in the State Regulation. I mean, as I said in my answer, that, for example, Nordland has had solid profits. They have low debt, they've built up 1 billion. kr on the book, and they have the opportunity to reduce the ferry rates on their country holidays if they so wish. It is a matter of political will.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e574	Bård Hoksrud – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e579	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport if possible. I also find it quite fascinating to listen to the Workers' Party, which says that they will reduce the price of ferries etc., but in the alternative to the state budget there was not a single penny. The Council of State says that he is very pleased with many of the measures he takes in relation to climate, elves, technology changes, etc., but that makes costs rise quite sharply. It's a challenge that the Progress Party sees, and we now experience that there are a lot of people who think that costs are getting very big. I also want to challenge the Council of State a little bit about preparedness and security. Now it is such that each county council orders each of its boats and adapts them to each place. That means it'll be more difficult to move these boats over at different events and different things. It could be interesting if the Council of State could respond to how he views security and preparedness, if he is also concerned that when you do not choose solutions that you can use in several places, it has a security impact.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e588	That's a good question. We had another and clearer flexibility on the ferries when everyone went on diesel – I think we should be so honest and say. We are now building ferries with charging infrastructure. This is Norwegian technology. It is Norwegian business that has driven this work, and therefore it is going very quickly. There are some states that have advanced. The Western states have real stakes, and now we see that the other states are coming. When we get it in place, we actually get the same flexibility, but we probably have to have several ferries in place to ensure it in a transitional phase. We know how dependent we are on them, and there are some areas that are totally dependent on having the ferries, just to ensure a good preparedness. We need a greater readiness in the shift that's on the way, but we should probably keep changing it because it's the right development.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e593	Bengt Fasterøne – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e598	This morning I received a message from a reasonable, ground-near islander. He says as follows: When I drive on a ferry after paying the ferry ticket, I think about: What about the toll we pay? Does it stop at the faucet? – I guess that actually describes a little bit of what we talked about here today. In this long country, there are many people who are not land-based. They're never going to get a bridge, they're never going to get a tunnel. For these inhabitants, there is no alternative but a ferry and a speedboat. For these, it is very unfair when the prices are shooting in the weather, and that you may find that the truck ticket in Oslo goes down, and you are paid to lift your bikes in the winter. The Central Party believes that island communities and non-resident municipalities should have a free ferry service. For those who live in these places, ferry and speedboat are the only option to get there. Will the Council of State take the initiative to find out?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e605	No, I don't want to make it easy for us to have a free ride. As one who has grown up with a ferry, I think the coastal people are happy to pay for the ferry, but they're concerned that the price doesn't have to be too high. It must be within reasonable limits. I think that's our common challenge, because it has been an increase that worries me too. So we should be clear that part of the increase is due to the fact that we put the whole payment on the car because we have AutoPASS. If you drive a car with three or four passengers, you get a lot better today than you did before. But running one alone in the car, it's more expensive than before. I am concerned that we do not need to increase further, and that is why I am busy contributing and helping in the climate effort that we are forced to do. We've spent 1.6 billion. kr to it, and we've also increased for the national road ferries.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e610	Without any hint of queue or waiting time, we move on to the next main question, from the representative Helge André Njåstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e615	My question goes to Nikolai Astrup, as Minister of State and also Minister of Housing. The progress party is occupied by housing policy. We follow the image carefully and discuss it with both local politicians and others. We see that we are now in a situation in Norway where we have a development that shows that both migration to the country through immigration, birth surpluses and population growth shows a different development than housing. The graphs intersected each other in 2009, and after that we have seen a development in which there have been fewer dwellings built than the population growth would have been expected. And we're also looking at the prices, especially in the big cities. Perhaps especially in the capital, which is the home municipality of the minister, one sees that there is a great distance between what is being built and what is the need for the number of dwellings. In addition, we have some vicarious processes. There are long planning processes, it's expensive to build, and it helps to path housing prices. It is becoming increasingly difficult for young people and for people most to get into the housing market. We also see it very clearly on the health care index, which shows what one can afford to buy from a home with a regular nursing pay. We see that there are fewer and fewer dwellings to choose from, especially in the big cities. This is a matter that has such a classic distinction where local politicians, of course, point to national policy and say that there is the problem. We often have the same focus and say that local politicians are planning, regulating, building and seeing too little. I would like to use the opportunity to challenge the Minister of State as Minister of Housing what he wants to do to counteract the situation we see, that housing is too expensive, and that it is being built and planned for few dwellings at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e629	Thank you for the question. This is an important topic, but as the representative himself is involved, this is not a problem the state can solve alone, even if I should not point out just others. We have to work together to contribute to speeding up housing, especially in the press areas. There is not one housing market in Norway; there are many different housing markets with completely different challenges. In some of the largest cities there is a significant pressure, there is a significant weakness on the supply side. In parts of the districts, there's a completely different kind of challenge: that at the moment you've built a dwelling, you don't get the money back if you try to sell it. I perceive that the question is about pressure in the housing market. What we can contribute to by the state is that we need to have simpler rules. We need more digitisation of both planning and construction shaft processes. We must continue to work to exempt simple measures from application obligations so that we release the capacity of the municipalities to deal with the larger and more complex issues that give rise to greater volumes. We already have exceptions, for example: garages for application purposes. Now we also need to exclude terraces and detached outdoors that are not used for housing – within certain frameworks, of course. Let's keep doing that. We also continue to develop the toolkit for digitisation of construction materials and digitisation of planks. I recently agreed to send out the first lucky announcement of the plan, which was valid for the E6 in Trøndelag. It is clear that many alerts are sent out in plan items, four pieces through the process in each case, and there are many plan items in total, so this is of great importance. We have to keep working on it, but we can't help but see that the time to get control plans has to go down in the big cities, and the time it takes to process construction applications has to go down.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e640	Thanks for the answer. It is good that the state can contribute something, even if outdoors that one cannot live in, do not help in the housing situation, nor do the garages. What we have to do is, like the Council of State, to bring down the planning processes. The progress batch is ready to form multiples to reduce the planning time and reduce the planning process. We are also ready to reduce the property tax further for those who have a dwelling and have expensive costs of living. We have to put a roof on the building tax fee, so it won't be even more expensive to apply for a start. And we should have a review of the protective properties, which are often used as a basis for stopping projects. I would like to challenge the Council of State whether he is willing to go further in that direction in order to get planning up and reduce the planning time in cooperation with the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e645	Thank you for the question. Of course, I fully agree that the purpose of exempting garages from the application obligation is not to live in them, but it will also release the capacity of the planning and building seats, which can then be used to process just housing applications. I think that's important. Here we could read in E24 that in Oslo it now takes an average of 161 days to get a case handler, while the law's deadline for dealing with construction matters is 12 weeks, which means that at the moment you get a case handler, you have already missed the deadline. Then it will be relatively cheap for the builder, as the construction fee will then be abolished. At the same time, this gives the municipality an incentive to find faults in the procedure, which allows it to restart the treatment period. We have to see if this is an appropriate way to do it, to say it like that. It is important to be able to deal with the construction matters much faster than today. Of course, if the legislation stands in the way of that, we should contribute our own on the part of the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e654	There will be follow-up questions – first Helge André Njåstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e659	That's absolutely right – we have to cut down on the time it takes to get a building application approved, and we have to get the planning and construction rates to be yes-people, to help people instead of looking for a reason to get the fee and use the time they want. I could well imagine that we went in that direction that if the municipality has not reacted within the deadline, it is only to start and build, as it was before, when a pressure was put on the municipality. Now, pressure is put on you to get the fee, but as the state council says, then you only look for a reason and a small comma error to get permission to use the time you want. It would be very good if you put a pressure on the municipalities: if they haven't responded within time, the developer can start building. Then the municipalities will speed up and ensure that the proceedings are even faster. And then the municipalities have to raise the threshold of what they're getting away with. There is too much fine light in the municipalities, and there are too few municipalities that are really yes-communists looking for reasons to say yes instead of saying no. So we want to get even more simplifications. I know that the Council of State had out on hearing simplifications on the exemption, and I expect that he will soon come to Stortinget with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e666	I think it's very important that those who sit around the municipalities aren't the system's defenders out to the people, but they help to make popular judgement work in the system. It also applies to the highest degree to building applications. I believe that some of the fines to which the representative is aiming is about avoiding conflicts in retrospect, among other things. between neighbours, and I think it can be time-saving for everyone to clarify a few questions in advance. Having said that, however, we need to help municipalities do an even better job of helping applicants to identify errors as early as possible in the process, so that they can receive complete applications and be treated much faster than they are today. Today it takes too much time in many cases to discover that there are deficiencies in the application. This means that the process is restated and that everything takes a considerable longer. With the Joint Services BYGG platform, it is also a bit of the intention that the automatic control of the building application before it is sent to the municipality should be offered, and this could therefore be made more effective.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e675	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e680	In large parts of the country, the market value of residential buildings is much lower than the cost value of new buildings. In Gamvik, Finnmark, the market value might be 50 pst. of the cost of new construction. According to the Ministry of Finance's loan regulations, applicable from 1 January 2021, Section 7, Lending Rate, states that amortisation loans may not exceed 85 pst. of a carefully assessed market value. For Gamvik in Finnmark, this means that a young family must have an equity of at least 2 million. kr if a house of 4 million is built. kr. The Minister of Local Affairs is responsible for the House Bank. My question is: will the Council of State take the initiative to give the House Bank new legislation, so that they can top finance these dwellings through loans covering the difference between, for example, 50 pst. and 85 pst of the construction cost?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e687	It is my understanding that the House Bank can grant loans to people who are initially not within the traditional target group to the House Bank, but who are just in the problem that the representative mentions, that you cannot obtain loans on commercial terms in a bank, simply because the house is worth less when it is finished than it costs to build it. So this is probably being used a little too little today, but we've asked the District Center and the House Bank to look at this problem, about how to contribute to getting a more balanced housing market, also in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e694	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e699	It's nice to get that answer, because what the Council of State is now saying is that what is today an opportunity, but which is a very tight opportunity, is something that the Council of State will look at more closely. My question is quite in principle, because there are a number of places in Norway where the market value of a new house is much lower than what it costs to build the house. As a result, young families do not dare to build in those areas, and as a result, businesses do not have the labour force they want. So here's a system problem. So what the Council of State says, to repeat my question, is that one here will go in and look at a legislative change, which is essentially, to all those where there is a big difference between what is market value and 85 percent, which is used in the purchase of housing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e707	My starting point is that the legislation opens up this today, but then there is reason to look at the practice of the legislation. But if there is a need to look at the legislation itself, we will, of course, also do so, in the light of the assessments that we gradually get from the House Bank and the District Centre. I fully agree with the representative that this is a problem, and not least there is a problem in many districts where demographic developments are such that there is an increasing number of older and fewer people in working age. Many of the elderly live in dwellings that are not necessarily suitable for old age, but to build new and sell and move into e.g. a smaller apartment near the centre of the village is not billable. And that's a challenge, because it cements the housing pattern and also makes young people who want to move to the village have no houses available because they are then occupied by people who in practice can't sell the houses they're sitting in today. 'Occuperes' was the wrong word!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e714	We understood what you meant.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e719	Right? I hope everyone understood what I meant.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e724	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e729	My question also goes to the Minister of State. For the sake of order, I think that when the Right-men talk about house occupation, we all realize that there is nothing scary about it. [[Laughter]] The breed in Gerdrum has shaken us all, and yesterday another two were found dead, after a long search. I think we're all impressed by the efforts of people in the community, volunteers in the search and rescue services, the health services, the NVE and the municipality. Now it's important that we set up Gjerdrum even when the media don't report from the raid site. In the past, the Minister of Local Affairs has been very much in attendance at the Questionnaire as to whether the State should set up. He has said that the state will help to cover the acute costs here and now and the longer-term costs, such as rebuilding infrastructure. He has also said that he knows that there is an application for treatment now and that it should be dealt with quickly. But as in all other municipalities, people in Gjerdrum are uncertain about what it actually means to set up. Will the State pay for the extra costs of getting older in a nursing home in the neighbouring municipality even when the insurance period expires? Are they getting more money for health care? There are many who struggle with evil thoughts after the crash. Should the State set up to dispose of waste throughout the racial area and increase technical services’ capacity to help the municipality’s citizens? The municipality has not received a letter with clear promises about what the state is actually going to pay. My question is: can the municipality expect a clear response from the Council of State to what the State is actually going to do for the municipality of Gjerdrum?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e740	Thank you for the question. Let me first say that I fully agree with Huitfeldt's representative that a formidable work has been done on the part of the municipality in Gjerdrum. I have also communicated that to the rapporteur. Here the community has really handled an incredibly demanding situation in an exemplary way at all. I would also like to say that the neighbouring municipalities have stood up and have been truly invaluable in the situation they have faced. That's very good. My impression is that it continues. The representative referred to an application from the municipality of Gjerdrum for the spraying of cosmetics. We actually dealt with it the day after we got it, so that money was paid out. It was a 20-million gunner. kr. There's nothing in this context, but it's important for us to also show that it shouldn't be on us when it comes to funds. In addition to a small proportion of goods per capita — this is a standard approach to natural disasters — the government covers expenditure linked to, for example, damage to municipal infrastructure. There's a lot of it in Gjerdrum. But the government also covers other expenses, which are indirectly related to the event, i.e. the costs they have incurred of people staying in hotels, what is not covered by insurance companies, etc. Just where the limit goes for what is to be covered also depends on what kind of expenditure is now appearing. We don't have that overview as of today, but the state is going to set up for Gjerdrum, there's absolutely no doubt about it. So it'll take some time before both the municipality and we have a full overview of this. The State administrator is closely connected. We have good and steady contact with the state administrator. I have also spoken to the rapporteur himself on some occasions, and I have the impression that, in the circumstances, they deal with this very well. I have also underlined that the threshold must be low to contact us if they need anything.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e749	What makes the municipality insecure is when they see that there is a need for increased health care: should we just pay money for it, and will the state say that there are other kinds of costs in retrospect? So I think it is important that that dialogue also takes the initiative of the Council of State itself. Because they have to help their inhabitants with technical services and a lot of other things. It's not always easy to negotiate with the state, so I think it should be a political responsibility that the Council of State itself has to take. If not, it is very difficult for such a small municipality as Gjerdrum to be able to do everything they need to do, and what people expect. I know that the NVE is not the constitutional responsibility of the Council of State, but very many in Rome, and in the rest of the country, including the Gjerdrum, are very concerned about cooperating with a very professional profession, as NVE is. Will the Council of State contribute to the discussion that they can help municipalities to a greater extent than now? I think that's important for all the municipalities in the country that have mercury problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e756	I would like to take the initiative of a meeting with the municipality of Gjerdrum to clarify in more detail what kind of expenditure is covered by the state in connection with natural damage to this extent. This we have procedures for, unfortunately it's not the first time it's happened. We would like to make clear to Gjerdrum what kind of expenses it is about, although I believe that the State Manager has communicated some of this. We need to make sure that the message comes forward. The NVE has an important role as a professional authority, and the representative is quite right that it is not my constitutional responsibility, but we can generally say that it is important that the expertise that the NVE has also comes into play, especially when planning new developments on their own grounds.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e763	The oral question procedure is now over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e777	There are no changes to the configured question list.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e785	‘The Children’s Ombudsman is ‘surprisingly surprised that the government has chosen to open home school where it is not justified for infectious diseases’. The government’s regulatory changes are too poorly framed, and the impact on children and young people is too poorly assessed. The Minister of Knowledge must make more visible how she has weighed the need for increased access to home training against the negative consequences. Can the Council of State explain the underlying reasons for the amendment to the regulation at ‘yellow level’ which opens up more home school?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e792	Let me first stress that the general rule is that the students are going to be at school. The change in regulation allows school owners to decide for a limited period to provide smaller parts of the training at home to pupils in upper secondary and secondary school. The availability of some of the home training courses only applies in schools with a high level of absence related to covid-19 over time, and the condition is that this is necessary for the overall training of the students. Furthermore, the Regulation provides that training can only be provided at home if it is pedagogically sound and that the best interests of the students are to be a fundamental consideration in assessing whether part of the training is to be given as home training. So this is a snowy opening to use some home training if it's necessary for students. At the same time as this regulation, I have introduced requirements for all home training to ensure that students receive good follow-up through school day even if the training has to be done at home. I also have an obligation for school owners to report to the State Manager when deciding on home training. Throughout the pandemic, I have had regular meetings with representatives of school owners, schools, teachers and students. Their experience is that during periods of absence among students and teachers over time, it is demanding to provide quality training. In some cases, infectious diseases control measures lead to the need to have combined arrangements, where some of the students are at school and some are at home, where there are changes from day to day, the use of unqualified teachers and a lot of independent work. In such cases, access to some home training may increase predictability, better planned teaching arrangements and the use of qualified teachers to whom students have a safe and personal relationship. Thus, the change in regulation is a safety valve that should be used to provide home training when it is not possible to provide good education at school. A hearing was held in advance of the amendment, and I have had meetings and dialogue with key actors on several occasions. I am committed to facilitating that students' needs are met as much as possible, so I have listened to those who know the best situation in the schools. I know that there are different opinions about the change. I have taken that seriously, and I have made more restrictions compared to what was at the hearing. I believe that the regulations on home training have now been well implemented through both strict conditions, home training requirements and a reporting obligation to the State Manager. I want to add that it gives us a good opportunity to also monitor the way this is used.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e803	Being away from school has negative consequences for students’ learning and how children and young people are doing it. There may be negative consequences for the mental health of students and fewer children being caught by the support service. I feel that the Minister of Knowledge is trying to minimize the changes that have been made, saying that home school should be used little. But when we look at the recordings she herself refers to in the consultation round, the reactions are alarming, not only from the FHI, but also from the Children's Ombudsman, who is set to take care of children's rights. They use strong words in their warnings. The lack of training that students receive and have received can have major consequences both in the short and long term, and the Children’s Ombudsman is particularly concerned about the professional and psychosocial consequences. Does it really not impress the Minister when there are so strong warnings from those who are set to manage the infectious disease regime and from those who are set to manage children's rights?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e808	The hearings we got were very important to us, and it also made us make a number of changes to the regulation, which made it more clearly limited. We introduced a reporting obligation, which I think contributes to that being a pretty high threshold. This is not something a single teacher can just think of doing tomorrow because it's a bit demanding. This is something that the school owners have to adopt and for which they have to document the reasons. I think the threshold for using this is pretty high. I think we should not just listen to the trade unions. We also need to listen to those who work with these children every day, to those who in practice ensure that children's rights are taken care of. It's very much those who work in schools and kindergartens. They've been very clear that they need this opening. That is what makes it possible for them to provide the best possible quality of training. Then I think we should listen to them too.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e815	Despite these changes to which the minister refers, Redd Barna and the Children's Ombudsman tell us in the opposition that we should stop this amendment. The advice is still clear. Then I understand very well the concern of the teachers and how the teacher organisations have dealt with this matter. It's hard to work in school under this pandemic, but it's not about, as Melby has tried to turn it into the media, that SV doesn't trust school leaders and teachers. This is simply about a regulation that is too poorly framed. It is too poorly investigated what consequences this will have for children and young people. Consideration must be given to the protection of infection and to the importance of life and health to be balanced against the right of students to education. Therefore, the use of home training should follow the local level of infection protection and be closely related to the protection of infection. Can the Minister of Knowledge say whether the consequences of home school for children and young people have been identified?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e824	I think we just have to admit that in a pandemic we are implementing measures that are not carefully investigated. The fact that we closed the schools on 12 March last year, for example, wasn't very thoroughly investigated, but it's quite obvious that it had very significant consequences for tens of thousands of Norwegian children and young people. I believe there is a big difference in whether a class might have a language elective for a few hours a week digital and full home school and full closure. There are two very different things we're talking about. The representative says this isn't about lack of trust, but I find it hard to understand in any other way. We give teachers, school leaders and school owners the task of assessing what is the best educational option for the children. It's not that being physically present always, in any situation, is the best option. If the option is that the special pedagogue that would be sitting with the two kids who have extra needs should rather be in the German class rather than that the teacher who is in the home quarantine can provide the German class with the instruction that he is best fit for, I think the last thing between you might be a better choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e836	«In a separate letter to the Education and Research Committee, Mr Barna pointed out that there should be very serious grounds for opening up more home school. ‘In these intrusive issues, a child’s best judgment must be taken where children and young people themselves must be involved,’ they write. Has a ‘best rating’ of the regulation on more home school at yellow level been carried out, to what extent have children and young people been heard in the process, and does the Council of State consider that more home school is for the benefit of children?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e843	Let me begin by stressing that the purpose of the rules on home training at a yellow level is to facilitate the care of students’ needs – and thus children’s needs – as much as possible. So the whole point is the child's best interest. Although it might have been tactical of me to say that we're doing it for the teachers, it's for the students, for the children, we're doing this. The clear starting point is that it is clearly best for students to receive school training with peers and by qualified teachers. Unfortunately, this is not always possible in the situation we are in. In some cases, the measures to prevent infection, as I said in my previous post, lead to combined arrangements, where some of the students are at school and some are at home, where there is the use of unqualified teachers and a lot of independent work, and where there are changes from day to day because some are in quarantine, some have sick leave, etc. In such cases, it is not quite obvious what is best for students. The question then is who we are to allow that assessment. In some cases, I think it would be better for the students to get some home training in order to achieve more predictability, better planned arrangements and use of qualified teachers to whom the students have a safe and personal relationship. This change in regulation is a safety valve that should be used to provide home training when good school education cannot be offered, which we all need to recognise is a situation that arises between today's situation. In such cases, I think it might be best for students to receive some home training, and that the school owners are closest to assessing how training should be organised in order to meet the needs of students as much as possible. The Regulation also provides that the best interests of the pupils are to be a fundamental consideration in the school owner’s assessment of whether part of the training is to be given as home training. Through the consultation and subsequent meetings, I have received input from several actors who care for the interests of children and young people. I have also through the pandemic, and in this particular case, have had good dialogue with the Student Organisation. In addition, I have received input from municipalities, schools and teachers who are responsible for the training of students and who have good conditions to assess the impact on students of different types of organisation. The best of students, and thus the best of children, have thus been thoroughly illuminated and assessed in advance of the change in the regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e858	There are certain requirements for both the best assessments of the child and the involvement of children and young people. Paragraph 104 of the Constitution and Article 12 of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child gives children the right to be heard on questions relating to them. How can you really assess what is best for children, without even hearing about children and young people in a good and sufficient way? Fear the Children, the Children’s Ombudsman and not least the Norwegian Human Rights Institute all point to weaknesses in the process regarding the participation of children in this matter. The Children’s Ombudsman also reiterates his criticism after the revision of the regulation. Does it impress the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e865	As I said, the recordings we got from all the actors were very important to us. There was also a reason why we adjusted the regulation quite strongly after both the hearing and the recording meeting. I think, as I said instead, that we have to admit that it's not all the processes you get to spend the same amount of time on right now, when we're in a pandemic, as usual. We usually send out regulatory changes at hearings for several months. Here it was just a matter of days, because it would be pointless to carry out this kind of change in May. If we're going to do it, we're going to have to do it now. We've listened to both actors talking on behalf of children, and actors representing children, like the Student Organization, and I perceive that they have been positive to this change. What I'm experiencing is that we fully agree on what the goal is, that children should be as much as possible at school, and that children should receive the best possible training, but then we disagree on what means ensure it. I feel confident that this change will ensure that the best interests of the child are cared for.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e872	Thanks for the answer. Children also have rights relating to education under the Convention on the Rights of the Child Article 28 and the Constitution § 109. What the Children's Ombudsman says is that many of the requirements relating to the quality and quantity of teaching have been set aside in the rights and further in the Training Act under the pandemic. So they say something pretty important, that the opening for more home school puts it further aside. Therefore, I have to ask the Council of State whether she really believes that children's right to training should be further weakened even when there are no infectious health reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e879	Saying that there are no infectious reasons for that, I think it's a little misleading. We've now had schools, for example. in the Eastern region, which has had 10, 20 and 30 quarantine teachers because they live in a municipality with a major outbreak. It is precisely the rules for the protection of infection that prevent teachers from going to school. There are teachers who have to be at home on short notice because they have a slight cold, but who can very well contribute to the training by providing some digital education. And it's the rules of infection that make the teachers sit at home. There's no pedagogical considerations that make the teachers sit at home. So it's just in a situation of long-standing absence -- it's an important criterion, this isn't something you can just use everywhere -- among both teachers and students, it's possible to give some of the teaching digitally. I think that's a very clear hit. It is just about the protection of infection — that the rules on the protection of infection are so restrictive about what we can achieve from training for children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e889	‘I refer to the Council’s answer to written question No. 821 [[2020-2021]] Can I ask the Council of State again for answers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e896	I must begin by saying that although I am a minister of faith and life, I am not constitutionally responsible for church asylum. It's under the Attorney General's office. I have great respect for the Church as a sacred place, and for the Church taking its deaconal task seriously. I can also reassure the representative Knag Fylkesnes that he does not have to worry about the future of church asylum in Norway as long as the Christian People's Party is in government. This is an important safety valve and an institution for which we as a society are to protect. At the same time, as the representative of Knag Fylkesnes is well aware, the Stortinget has decided that the responsible State Council cannot intervene in individual cases. This does not mean that the issue of Finnsnes does not affect me, on the contrary – sitting in church asylum is not a good way to live. Choosing away freedom and now sitting in the sixth year is not a simple choice for anyone. The possibility of seeking asylum is a fundamental human right, and families and others with a real need for protection should be allowed to stay in Norway. The majority of the Grand Duchy has adopted the legislation after which these cases are dealt with. Here my party and the representative Knag Fylkesnes’ party often have more in common than we have with the big parties. The majority want to tighten up Norwegian immigration policy. This was clearly just before Christmas, where there was a vote in this Chamber on significant sanctions that were given by a majority from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Advance Party. I cannot go into detail on this matter, nor can I comment on it. However, on a general basis, I would like to say that if there is any new information, you have the opportunity to ask that the case be reviewed and ask for a revision of the UN decision. As I understand it, the family and the support players believe that there is new information in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e909	What's so tragic about this case is that here we have a family that, first of all, has our huge lengths in church asylum in Norway. I don't think there's anyone who's been in church asylum for so long in Norway ever, and only that in itself should call for attention from the party that's occupied by both the Church Institute and having a human input into asylum and refugee policy. Only that in itself should require a political commitment, including from the party of the government. That this is a matter which, in the beginning, belongs to the Minister of Justice, is quite correct. At the same time, the church and the commitment to the church are part of this council's commitment, so here's a shared commitment. Has the Council of State, on a principle basis, raised this specific issue in the talks with the Minister of Justice?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e916	First, I want to say that this is a matter that has aroused a great political commitment to my party. Local representatives have been very committed and share the concerns raised here, but national politicians have also raised and discussed this issue. I've discussed it myself with the Minister of Justice. I often deal with various questions with the Minister of Justice, without sharing with the Storting everything we discuss. But, as I said in my reply, Stortinget has also decided that the Minister of Justice will not intervene in individual cases, precisely because it is the legislation that underlies, one will deal with matters after. There I think that I and the representative Knag Fylkesnes have more in common. We are working to do something about the legislation on these matters, because I believe there are examples in between that show that, for example. The best of the children is not given enough weight, and I also believe that in some of the cases immigration regulatory considerations are given too much weight.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e921	The second dimension that makes the situation so special for this family of Finnsnes is that the situation in Sri Lanka is only getting worse and worse. This has also been recognised by the U.D. following reports from the United Nations, which show that the prosecution and violations of human rights carried out by the regime there are increasing to an extent. This family is here because they have actively participated in the opposition in the country. The council said that it must be up to this family to point out that there is a new situation in the country, in order to have the matter reviewed. But is it not a responsibility for Norway, on a principle level, to ensure that no human being is subjected to human rights violations and to the power of Norway's decisions?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e926	Persons entitled to protection under the laws and regulations of Norway shall be allowed to stay in Norway. I cannot comment on these specific assessments because I am not the constitutionally responsible Council of State, so the representative may have to ask the Minister of Justice. But I'm familiar with that, among other things. has received a report from the UN High Commissioner describing the serious situation in Sri Lanka, and it may be one of the factors that could bring you to the conclusion that there is something new in the matter. I also know that there are concerns about the health situation etc. That's why I remind you that this is an opportunity. It has not been said that you can get the matter up again, but it may be an opportunity for that. Let there be no doubt. These are questions that are not necessarily on the Christian People's Party, or on SV for that matter, but we are working to do something about the legislation, the general basis, in order to focus on children's concerns, so that immigration-regulating considerations do not crowd out everything in matters where one also has to focus on other considerations, and it has to be done on a principle basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e936	‘One out of six children experienced some form of violence or abuse during the eight weeks of schooling was closed last spring, of which 20 pst. of these experienced mental or physical violence for the first time during the closure, figures from the National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress. At the same time, we saw that the number of child protection reports on abuse decreased, and many children lost their safe adults in their everyday life when the school closed down. Will the Council of State follow up with the necessary resources to the municipalities to care for children and young people when opening up more home school?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e943	First, I would like to thank you for a very important question from the representative Haltbrecken. I am concerned that there is an increased risk of children and young people being subjected to violence and abuse when schools and important services for children and young people reduce their supply. The government has therefore, throughout the pandemic, underlined the importance of municipalities protecting the services of children and young people as far as possible and infective professionally sound. At the same time, we have also promised to compensate for the corona expenditure of municipalities. We've done that since March 12th, and we're going to keep doing that. The transfers to the municipalities increased by nearly 19 billion last year. kr, justified inter alia with efforts for vulnerable groups. In the state budget for 2021, the free revenues of municipalities increased by about 9 billion. kr as a result of the pandemic. The Government justified this, inter alia: to maintain the provision of services to children, young people and vulnerable groups. The main measure for the provision of child protection services to children and young people in need of assistance from them is to keep the provision of services to children and young people open and accessible. For children and young people to meet open services, the government encourages municipalities, among other things. keeping health centres open and making health care professionals in schools available. In situations where home schooling is required, a daily physical offer shall continue to be made to children and young people with special needs. One in four child protection services reports that they are now receiving several concerns messages compared to the same time last year. This may be an indication that services and the local environment are now catching up with the negative impacts of the pandemic on vulnerable families. However, it is difficult to see a clear trend in this. At the same time, it is reported that the capacity of municipal child protection services is relatively stable, although some child protection services indicate a slightly higher workload. State administrators report on an ongoing basis any significant deviations in the services in their region. In January, only one child protection service with deviations was reported. The current infectiveness situation is inconclusive and the risk of spreading is high. That is why we are following developments closely. According to life and health, the priority shall continue to be given to services and services for children and young people. This is important to prevent and detect violence and abuse against children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e958	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The government has said several times that it should be opened for children in a particularly vulnerable situation to have an offer to come to school. However, experience shows that many do not make use of this offer, including: because it is perceived as stigmatizing. What does the government do to ensure a good and accessible offer to those in a particularly vulnerable situation, whether through a specific training offer or related to home conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e967	I would first like to stress that kindergartens and schools are not closed now, in which case there are very few municipalities or areas where it has to be done for a short time, but it is clear that the red level also does something about life. I see some reports show that when you have a red level – I kept saying that the Christian People's Party and the SV's teaching norm and the desire for more adults also shows it – vulnerable children in the smaller groups are taken care of in an even better way. There's also an interesting perspective for just a lot of these. In situations where one has to close kindergartens and schools, we have given very clear messages to the municipalities and follow up through the state administrators. We also have regular meetings with them and remind them that it should be an offer. So it's right, as the representative says, that some children know a good thing about because they have assistance from child protection or others, but it's not always good to know who it is that needs it. In order for people with social-critical functions to go to work, they should be able to have the kids there, but also others should be able to do it. I have also experienced this as a very great wish from schools and kindergartens to be able to facilitate it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e976	It is true that schools and kindergartens are not closed now, but it is made possible by the government for more use of home school. When both schools have been shut down and children and young people have not had the opportunity to pursue leisure activities, the arenas there are being reduced as an opportunity to discover that children and young people are being subjected to violence and abuse at home. As I said in my first question, one in six children and young people experienced some kind of violence or abuse during the first school dropout last spring. What we mean is that the government now has to do something to protect children and young people. The question is, how does the Council of State work to ensure that extremely vulnerable children are picked up, that they are discovered and given the help they need?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e985	The most important thing is to maintain services. It's to be able to have schools, kindergartens, health center, school health service, all these normal functions, up to go. Whenever possible, leisure activities for children and young people have been opened as quickly as possible, so fortunately there is also a situation where they are open. We've been constantly working throughout the pandemic to ensure that child protection has enough resources, that they're available, that they're available, for example. do not have to be in a home office; there is a need to have only a physical one, one cannot have them on screen – but also to ensure that, although difficult situations arise, the municipalities do not redispose health care professionals and other important personnel working against children and young people. We have given money to various non-governmental organisations, which do a great job, whether it's doing outreach work or having something in common within it's intellectually justified that you can have something. This is one of the issues we give the highest priority to, and we are doing the best we can to ensure that children and young people get good services.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e997	‘The housing market is hot, and especially in Oslo the price growth has been very high over the last year and in the first months of 2021. It is very difficult to enter the housing market in Oslo for a normal employee, and housing prices rose by 12 pst in Oslo. in 2020. The housing market reinforces differences in Norway. Households' debt growth, driven by the housing market, is also very worrying. How does the Council of State monitor the situation and will new measures be taken to control the housing market and debt growth?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1004	As the representative points out, there has been a high level of activity and strong growth in housing prices over the last year, especially in Oslo. In my view, there are two factors that explain this. The first is a lack of housing. There are too few dwellings in Oslo, and the municipality does not organize enough plots for housing. This is not a new issue, but a challenge that is reinforced by the second factor: record low lending rates, which allow more people to initially serve a higher debt. In addition, high savings in households and limited consumer opportunities as a result of the pandemic may have led to a higher willingness to pay and the ability to pay for housing. In recent years, the government has put in place a number of measures to contribute to a more sustainable development of the housing market, to mitigate the vulnerability of households and to make the financial system more robust to housing price falls. One of the measures is the lending regulation. It was introduced in 2015, tightened into 2017 and subsequently continued twice, at the latest applicable from 1 January 2021 and for four new years. Moreover, from 2017, there have been stricter rules in Oslo than in the rest of the country related to equity requirements for secondary housing and lower flexibility ratios than in the rest of the country. Loan regulation is a targeted measure to contribute to a more sustainable development of household debt. The regulation has worked well, but is not suitable forfinishing developments in the housing market. Analysis shows that the tightening up of the regulation in 2017 has led to fewer households raising very high loans in relation to income or the value of the dwelling, and helps to dampen the strong growth of housing we saw in 2016. Household debt growth has also decreased since 2017, but has recovered slightly in recent months. Compared to household income, debt is at a high level and represents a significant vulnerability in the Norwegian economy. Statistics and analyses suggest that both the number and age of first-time buyers have remained fairly stable over several years. At the same time, banks report that they use a large proportion of the flexibility in the lending regulation to provide loans to first-time buyers that do not meet all the normal regulatory requirements. In particular, these requirements apply to equity. At the same time, it is a reality that a high level of the housing price relative to income makes it difficult to enter the housing market. The special challenges we now see in Oslo are best solved by building more dwellings and several smaller apartments, as many first-time starters demand. The government will therefore continue to work to simplify the legislation on planning and construction processes, so that this legislation does not unnecessarily delay the construction of many enough dwellings.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1023	I thank you for your answer. I think it's important that in the debate on the high debt growth we're seeing, and the housing price growth that's very, very strong right now, we get a little out of the path we're always going back to; that we're going to build ourselves out of the situation. There has been the government's systematic response in recent years, and that is not enough. Especially when we have a year behind us with zero interest rates, where the mortgage regulation was suspended, and where people buy before they sell, the strong drivers of the situation we're in are. I'm afraid we have a ticking bomb under the Norwegian economy, with a debt growing to heaven, which grows relative to income, and where more people now take up loans that are very high relative to income. That is why I want to challenge the Minister of Finance to see if the government at all looks at some regulatory action now. Do you want to reset the countercyclical capital buffer? Should we regulate banks' loans in some way? Do you even see any more grips?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1032	It is true that the countercyclical capital buffer was put down at the beginning of the crisis we are now in. It was a completely necessary grip to avoid that everything would stop. Then we are waiting for advice from Norway's Bank to do something about it, which is then assessed by the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. Then it is the Ministry of Finance that makes the final decision. I think there are several things we can do. Firstly, we do not come from the fact that supply and demand have any meaning. When too few dwellings are built, when demand is very high, prices also rise. We can't regulate ourselves out of it either, but we can do other things. Among other things, I have the announcement that we will further strengthen the possibilities to facilitate rental-to-ownership. Among other things, we are now considering a change to the tax law that allows for the expansion of several rentals to be used for rentals in the major housing projects. It has, among other things, the builders of dwellings are requested.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1041	It is a very important measure. This is the broad political agreement in Norway, and we must implement it to the greatest extent possible. But unfortunately, I don't think it's a solution to the big distortion we see in the housing market today – neither the strong price growth nor the great financial vulnerability that lies below it, which I think is quite dramatic in a situation where we also have an economic crisis. The demand side of the housing market is drenched today, because of the low interest rate and because of the situation we are in. Then it's not enough in itself just to build itself out of it. I have to say I get a little worried when the Minister of Finance has no more concrete measures and assessments than rent-to-owners on what is a concern both in terms of our financial stability, and also when we have a housing market that reinforces the economic inequality in Norway, and where it is hardly enough to make the entrance to the housing market a little easier for more low-paid people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1050	Rent-to-owner is a powerful tool. It has been requested by many and could be particularly important for many young purchasers, but also others with a weak economy. We have also amended the start-up loan scheme to focus on those groups that have a weak economy over a long period of time. We have a lot of tools that can be used to help groups that have challenges in the housing market, but we don't come from being in an extraordinary situation with as low an interest rate as we have. As I have also experienced, the debt growth in households has decreased since 2017. We follow it very closely. Of course, the Bank of Norway does. When assessing the future trend in interest rates, one of the factors is considered.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1062	‘The government has said that it will give priority to lesbian, gay, biphilic and transhumance refugees, but has not been clear about family reunification. In Syria, there are three years' imprisonment for gender equality. ‘Sara’ from Syria will have a family reunion with ‘Mina’ residing in Syria. It is very difficult to document the relationship without running a high risk to your life and health. The documentary requirement is very difficult for these groups. Will the government give priority to family reunification between like-minded people?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1069	In my view, it is most important that the legislation in this field is not discriminatory or discriminates against like-minded couples. The question concerns family reunification between like-minded couples, where the resident is a refugee. The scope of such applications is very limited. Therefore, giving a description of the practice based on these few cases is very difficult. If the parties come from countries that do not recognise same-sex marriages, nor can they marry in the neighbouring country, the UDI will look into this. Such circumstances have become important in some of the cases assessed by the UDI. Thus, the rules allow similar couples to have family reunification in Norway, under the same conditions as different sexes – i.e. without any maintenance requirements and four-year requirements. There is thus room for a non-discriminatory practice under today’s legislation. The purpose of the family reunification conditions is partly to ensure that the family relationship has a reputation and partly to ensure that the relationship between the parties is strong enough to provide a basis for residence in Norway. When the parties have either been married, lived together for two years or lived together with a common child, the legislator has defined the family relationship as sufficiently strong. For like-minded couples who can neither marry nor refer to two years of cohabitation, the foreign authorities must make a concrete assessment in each case. The detailed assessment of whether the relationship must be regarded as established or equivalent to a marriage in these matters must be made by the non-resident administration. There is a concrete assessment that is not suitable for regulation in law or regulation. Furthermore, I would like to inform you that, on the recommendation of the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman, the UDI has implemented measures to raise awareness of these issues. Among other things, enhanced training of staff has been started and it has also been decided that these applications should be examined by several case handlers before a decision is taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1084	The rules we have now are a little bit discriminatory, because similar couples in many parts of the world can't fix the papers. They can't marry, and it can be very dangerous. I've been talking about ‘Sara’, it's a tyre name. The application for an engagement visa has now been discovered, and she has suffered death threats from the family. She is in contact with friends, waiting for the complaint to be dealt with. Will the government do anything to make it easier for like-minded couples to get answers from the Norwegian authorities, as they cannot get the papers in order?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1089	Without a doubt, these couples have it very much more difficult than very many other couples, simply because in the country they live, they are subjected to persecution, and because it is much more difficult to achieve the requirements we have set and that seem to be similar, for example. related to documentation. But that's exactly why it's so very important that you consider every single case concretely, that you don't apply standard requirements in all cases, but you go in and see why a couple can't document, why you don't have the papers in order, and why the situation is like that. Then we want to separate, I'd almost said, the real pairs from those who aren't. We know that there are pro forma couples trying to get family reunion, so we're trying to separate this. But there I think it is very good that the UDI has started training employees handling these applications, that more case handlers are used on the same matter to get a second opinion, and that we get experience in this, so that we can do the job even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1096	It was nice to hear the Council of State say we should look at each case. I didn't hear if it was for all the cases, or is there more focus on these groups, i.e. lesbian, gay, biphilist and transhumance? It's the same document requirement, but it's a lot harder for these groups. So when the council said we're going to look at each case, does she think they're taking more time to look at these groups?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1101	Yes, I meant to say to those we have exceptions, where there are strong human considerations, where there are particular reasons. It is difficult for the legislator to specify what to look at in concrete terms, for each case is necessarily different, and each situation is different. But in these matters that the representative now asks about, UDI does its own job both in order to be more good at handling and in order to ensure that. It is not common to have two case handlers on one issue, but this is something you have in these cases, to make sure that you make a thorough enough assessment. So the issues of how strong human considerations, special reasons, exist, you have to deal with differently than, I would almost say, the ordinary issues, where you can follow standardized forms in a completely different way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1109	‘The ongoing reorganisation processes in the Trom police district show very poor involvement of municipalities. The Chief of Police of Troms has initiated a process involving the centralisation of law enforcement, civil justice and service office functions. Luckily, the police chief disregarded the proposal to reduce the number of geographical holdings from five to two. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the police officer in Troms also stops all the other ongoing reorganization processes?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1116	I don't think it's right or wise of me as the Council of State to intervene in ongoing processes and override what the individual police officer can do within his powers. The Chief of Police has its own responsibility for the results and for the police service in its district and consequently also an obligation to dispose of resources in the best possible way. The number of service units and locations is fixed in the Trom police district. Within these frameworks, in line with the guidelines for involvement and the main agreement, the Chief of Police is also responsible for the appropriate organisation of the tasks. The Chief of Police himself chose to stop the process of changes in the geographic structure. However, I would like to remind you that it was not relevant – or suggested – to shut down service units or service stations in the Trom police district. I record that the issue of local organisation of administrative tasks was further investigated in the police district without it being relevant to reducing the number of places of employment. I have also been informed that the Chief of Police's recommendation to establish a joint investigation for Troms has been at the hearing of the municipalities and is now under decision in the Police Directorate. The recent survey shows that Troms is among the police districts with the highest proportion of people with very high or very high trust in the police, 83pst, and the Troms police district has clearly the largest increase in the proportion of people with confidence in the police, an increase of around 5pst. I trust that the police chief will manage and allocate his allocated budget in a cost-effective and targeted way. I also assume that the local service offer will be developed in consultation with the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1133	The police report, to be addressed in just over a week's time, says about the near-police reform: ‘The government will conduct a final evaluation as agreed in the agreement. The final evaluation shall be carried out in 2022 and will also include evaluation of the police site structure.’;» Nevertheless, it is now that centralisation has been carried out, among others. registrar, office and civil justice in a number of police districts. Also in Troms, as mentioned, the police chief insists on his proposal to centralize these tasks. Will the Council of State stop these processes so that the near-police reform can be evaluated? And how can an evaluation be carried out if police districts continue their changes, mergers and centralisations in 2021?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1145	We just got an area review of the police. It was delivered to me a few days ago, and I met with the organisations yesterday. What's going on is that the police have too much detail management and too little trust management, and I just have to say that it's not going to be easy to be a police officer and head of a new government. The evaluation shall be carried out. The number of service locations is maintained. So they don't change, but how the GDEs are set up, the geographical holdings, and how the common units are set up, we've left to the police officers. It hasn't been overrun by the Storting. There has not been any question mark on the Storting. That's why you have, for example. in Finnmark one geographical unit, while in Troms one has five. In the interior, you have three. The size can decide to make a decision on this too, refuse leaders to be leaders and set up all districts in exactly the same way – I think it would be very unfortunate. But the police reform needs to be evaluated, in line with what has been said in the communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1152	I notice that the Council of State will not answer if she wants to stop the centralization processes that the police chief in Troms has announced. But over to another question, for the helicopter preparedness of the police has also been severely weakened in Troms during this government. The two Bell helicopters on Bardufoss, which were on standby for the police, were replaced by one civilian helicopter in Tromsø from May 2020. In October 2019, the government announced the creation of a rescue helicopter base in Troms from 2022. It's strange that there's going to be two years to put one helicopter on this base. The undersigned asked the Council of State about a written question as to whether the tender had been sent. The council replied that the tender had not been sent out. One was still only in a dialogue phase. How has the Council of State intended to ensure that a new rescue helicopter base in Tromsø is in place in 2022, and can the Council of State guarantee that the rescue helicopter base in Tromsø is in place in 2022?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1161	In general, I would like to say that preparedness in this country has never been better, and fortunately we have been a government that has invested in it from day one. If there's something we've renewed, it's our helicopters, and if there's something we've bought, there's new helicopters. So we've also decided to build a base in Troms. It shall be operated from 2022. It's absolutely solid, and news is right around the corner.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1169	‘The Agder newspaper has had several reports on the challenges a family faces when they have a mentally ill relative who opposes help. They experience falling between all chairs, despite regulations and laws imposing interaction, information and coordination. What experience does the government have so far with the changes in the mandatory provisions of the Law on Mental Health Protection, including in the case of experience of relatives?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1176	The general rule is that all types of health care should be based on volunteering. The legislative provision on non-consenting requirements in the context of coercive care in the field of mental health protection was adopted as an important step in complying with the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, CRPD. The health directorate’s status report on coercion in mental health protection from 2020 shows that there are slight changes in the extent of the use of coercive measures from the amendment to 2018. According to the directorate, the law change may have led to a slight increase in the number of coercive decisions, without more real coercion. This may be due to the fact that before the amendment of the law, it was not always compulsory for patients without consent who did not oppose the insertion. The report indicates that there had been a somewhat less long stay under compulsion. The number of renovations had not increased until 2018 but has subsequently shown a slight increase. An evaluation by the University of Oslo Medical Ethics Centre in 2019 shows that the amendment of the law has probably led to increased attention to patient autonomy in mental health protection and to increased legal certainty and improved opportunities for user involvement. I believe that the experiences and experiences of the relatives are central to the assessment of how the law has worked, and it is up to the relatives themselves to express their opinion on this matter first and foremost. I have noticed what the National Association of Psychiatric Health said about the amendment of the law in the response to the proposal for a law on the restriction of coercion: ‘It is serious to deprive a person of self-determination, but it is equally serious to recognise decision-making powers if this is wrong, which could result in him refusing treatment and not receiving the health care to which he is entitled.’ The Association clearly expresses concern for family members who have experienced serious side effects after they have stopped taking medicines on their own initiative. Therefore, LPP promotes several constructive proposals, including: on improving the quality assurance of decision-making decisions, on the legislative establishment of the decommissioning plan, on stricter controls in the use of antipsychotic medicines and on the follow-up of adverse reactions. We have important challenges with regard to the design of legislation and the development of good professional practice in order to succeed with the intention of the law. Before the summer we are going to send out a consultation note asking for input on what is needed to succeed in the legislative changes such as: have been proposed by the sample which has looked at the enforcement legislation. The note will show how we in the ministry evaluate these key legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1194	That was a comprehensive answer. So the reality is that several armed missions from the police are directed towards mental health protection, and we have several missions that the police are involved in general. We see that the government's lack of policy of ensuring that mental health protection is given a greater share of the resources, that is, the golden rule, may have led to the sickening of ordinary people and their relatives, and that poses significant challenges, as this article in the Agder newspaper shows. It's the municipalities that are left with the bill. The Labour Party has strengthened the budgets, that is concrete action. I have registered that the Council of State regrets that he has not succeeded, but that he will take action and ensure that the lack of resources comes into place for mental health protection. What concrete action will the Council of State take?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1201	Firstly, I am absolutely sure that the Golden Rule has worked, because there is a priority rule that has contributed to a higher priority of mental health protection than what would have been the option if the Workers' Party had been allowed to govern, where this priority rule was abolished and actually left it up to health companies themselves to decide whether they would give priority to mental health protection or not. I believe that was a wrong policy, and that is why we changed that policy when we came into government. In addition, we have had significant promises in the field of mental health protection, not least we have ensured that people receive faster and former mental health care by now 2,600 more annual work in municipal mental health and drug treatment only between 2016 and 2020. We have introduced a legal requirement that all municipalities should have psychological competence, which the Workers' Party voted against. It is of great value to give people with mental health challenges early help, good help and not least help where they live.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1208	That the government had introduced it and that we took it away, could have the connection that it worked when it was used by us, and that therefore it was not necessary to have it. But having introduced it has not worked, it has not been fulfilled, and it has also been expressed by the Council of State. Flekkefjord is one example. There was a visit from the government parties in the municipality of Vennesla, which showed another example. So people with drug problems and mental health problems do not get the services they need. Under this policy, the sick and their relatives pay the highest price. It is tragic when relatives and patients have to get so sick that they either have to be placed under compulsion or the police have to assist the psychiatry to provide them with treatment. I believe that there is too much policy in terms of cooperation between municipalities and hospitals. Part of the bottom line is that the government is unable to provide sufficient funds to neither municipalities nor mental health protection to meet the requirements that the government says users will be satisfied. What concrete steps will the Council of State take to strengthen cooperation between municipalities and hospitals and to involve user organisations so that more people are free to become so ill that it becomes necessary to use coercion?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1217	First of all, if I had been satisfied with the state of things in mental health, I wouldn't have had this as a main priority to improve. I have had that for all the years I have been Minister of Health, and I believe that we also need to go further. I don't think the situation is good enough, on the contrary. That's a reason why the government, for example, have put in place a stepping-up plan for children and young people’s mental health, which we have followed up with considerable funds now in the 2021 budget, precisely because we believe that there is a need for improvement. But the situation in the field of mental health protection is in a completely different constitution now than when the Workers' Party was held responsible, there can be no doubt about it. Then I fully agree that an important part of the solution for the patient group that the representative addressed in his original question is that the community health service and the specialist health service work together in teams around the individual. Therefore, the government prioritises the establishment of FACT and ACT teams, which are the very type of way to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1227	‘Before Christmas, the Party Working Party on Health and Social Affairs of the Labour Inspectorate was informed that the work on the prevention of violence and threats is stopped because the Labour Inspectorate must give priority to follow-up of corona actions. Violence and threats are the main work environment challenge for large parts of the health and social sector. What is the background for prioritizing this area?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1234	The background is the coronary apathy, which is one of the biggest crises in Norway in modern times. Getting the infection down is a high priority everywhere – it should be. That is why we asked the Labour Inspectorate in November 2020 to oversee the protection of infectious diseases by employers. We also asked them to increase control within sectors and occupational groups where infection is a particular risk factor. I think that is right in the situation we are now in – that the work is prioritised and built up, so that we can quickly contribute to a reduced infection situation. This also means that the Labour Inspectorate has had to re-prioritize resources for a period of time, for the supervision of infectious diseases. It also means that infectious diseases are now the subject of all supervision. They also monitor specifically that the employer complies with the quarantine requirements for which the employer makes quarantine facilities available. This is a re-priority I understand also has negative sides, but I think it is absolutely correct and absolutely necessary. Then I am glad that the representative did not say that something is being put away, because that is quite correct. The fact that something needs to be prioritised down a period doesn't mean that it's being put away. Firstly, the Labour Inspectorate shall continue to give priority to the supervision of serious accidents and occupational criminality, as well as other inspections they consider critical, including: as a result of tips. But of course they're going to continue with their priority projects, for example. related to violence, which is a major problem. It is a huge work problem for many employees, not least in the health and care sector and in parts of the Nav system, for which I am responsible. But that means that some of the other work environment challenges need to be addressed again and again. That doesn't mean they're not important, but in the light of the corona, it's true that surveillance of infectious diseases is now a priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1243	I think everyone understands that we have to think differently. There's a lot of people who have to do it in the situation we're in right now. At the same time, there is clear feedback when the working group is informed that the supervision of the prevention of violence and threats has been stopped indefinitely. That is the message they have received in the working group. At the same time, we know that in recent years, supervision has shown that nearly six out of ten of the controlled establishments have not identified and risk-assessed the potential hazardous situations. Half of the enterprises have not assessed the risk of working alone, nor have they developed plans to protect workers from violence and threats. It must then be possible to do several things at once. To say that you put it on ice for an indefinite period of time, I'm afraid I'll have a big impact on the working life you're going back to after the coronary crisis. Why has the government not allocated more resources to the Labour Inspectorate?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1248	To take the last one first, and this is probably a repetition of the representative, which certainly follows very closely in the budgets: over the period 2014-2020, the Labour Inspectorate’s allocation has been increased by 120 million. kr. There is therefore no budgetary growth and impact adjustment – there are new, fresh, fixed funds in it. In addition, the Labour Inspectorate received a grant of 42 million in 2021. This is not consistent and, as well as a strengthening of fraud, is an important contribution to a serious and secure working life. It's a real, solid, permanent reinforcement. In comparison, the impact of the ABE reform has been 26.6 million over the period. kr. So to the first part of the question, I'm absolutely sure, or at least I'm going to assume, that what the Labour Inspectorate thinks is until the coronary apathy is over. Unfortunately, that means it's an indefinite time. But I will make sure that it is checked as well, because I cannot understand anything other than that the Labour Inspectorate wants to take up this important work as soon as they can after the coronary epidemic, or the tasks they have in connection with it, are completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1257	It's okay that something's strengthened, but at the same time we obviously can't have enough resources to have two thoughts in our head at once in the situation we're in. Although the situation is new and demanding, we've been in this situation for a year, so we're not allowed to be surprised anymore. We have strengthened the regulatory framework in this area in recent years. In 2017, new rules on violence and threats came into force through a new regulation. More stringent rules were laid down for employers to have to tighten up this work. This work has been mapped out in the Fabos report for 2019. What they found was that there are major shortcomings in the systematic effort to reduce the scope of violence and threats, so we know what the scope is, and we know that the rules that are there today are not being followed up well enough to prevent. I wonder if there has been a risk analysis of putting this work on ice?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1264	Firstly, I fully agree with the full description of how big this problem is. I also agree with the description that this legislation is not being followed up systematically. That also means that we don't know enough about the amount of it. What we know is that this is one of the greatest threats to the working environment for many employees in, among other things. The health and care sector, but also, we know, in the Nav system. For example: Sosionomers are a big problem. I do not think the Labour Inspectorate has made a separate risk analysis of putting this away. The reason for this is simply that when we gave the mission in November to prioritize the infection protection system, it was because we saw that a mutated virus was circulating, and that the infection was a problem. How to behave in the workplace and in the quarantine facilities where the employees are had something to say. I understand that it is difficult that some matters have to be prioritised, but I still believe that it is right – quite correctly. This means that some of the projects and key areas that the Labour Inspectorate has will be able to get a little less attention over a period of time, but it is necessary, because right now everything for everyone — or at least too many — is about shutting down the infection, and then the Labour Inspectorate is an important part of controlling it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1277	«We are totally dependent on the defence and cooperation with our allies also working in a crisis time and under a pandemic. Why did the Council of State not contribute to the adaptation of joint Viking exercise plans in order to ensure that the exercise could be carried out in an orderly manner and in line with the professional advice of the health authorities?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1284	Training Joint Viking is a national joint operational exercise with broad participation from allied countries. Both on the basis of a safety policy and operational assessment, this is a very important exercise. It has therefore been very desirable to carry out the exercise despite the pandemic. In the planning of the exercise, the defence has had a great deal of attention to the need to ensure the protection of the infection during the actual conduct of the exercise. Both the scope of the exercise and the operation of the forces have been subject to thorough assessments. In addition, a comprehensive approach was established to ensure testing and quarantine, and, if necessary, isolation, by alliert personnel coming to Norway, including those in prison. to participate in Joint Viking. Over the winter, the government has consistently balanced infectious diseases professional considerations against the safety and operational need to carry out the exercise. When it became clear that the overall infection situation in Norway had become more severe, among others. As a result of the detection of several cases of the mutated British virus, it was decided to cancel the Joint Viking and Rein 1 exercises in Inner Troms. The security policy situation in our neighbourhoods is the same as before the pandemic started, and the importance of maintaining allied activity in Norway is as important as in the past. Allied personnel operating in Norway, such as drug users, will therefore continue to operate in Norway. the American Air Force in the Middle East, because of the maritime exercises we're going to have on the outside. But all activity must be seen in the light of the fact that we are in a pandemic, and we are seeking to consider both the protection of infection, the national situation and the need for defence to be operational in the pandemic.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1295	I think we all agree that the defence should be operational under the pandemic. We're not shutting down the defense. It's more important than ever that it can also operate in such a situation we're now in. That's why it was very bad that this exercise had to be cancelled. What's interesting about the Minister of Defense's answer is that he says that there was no relationship at the practice that caused it to be canceled. There was an outbreak of mutated virus in South Norway that caused it – despite the fact that both the FHI and the Health Directorate warned very strongly about the use of the quarantine systems used by the Defence. Health Minister Höie also says that the defence required more assistance than provided. Was it not related to the execution of the exercise by the Defender that caused him to be cancelled?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1300	That's a good question, and it's important that we now nuance the image of this. There's a lot of consideration to take. Defence had close contact with local health authorities, regional health authorities, local policy authorities in planning and building the exercise. The preparatory activities are that it comes allies to Norway, runs winter training, learns to freeze on hands and feet, and then later enters a rather complex exercise like the Joint Viking. This would result in much greater cooperation and interaction between the forces, between nations and between allies, and greater activity between civil Norway and military Norway. Then, among other things, the outbreak. Nordre Follo came, making the national situation more inconspicuous, and the complex of carrying out a major exercise would have resulted in greater protection against infection. It's all the reasons that make us go to the step of canceling Joint Viking.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1305	This is a little bit unclear. So it's the situation in North Follo that caused the practice to be canceled, and not the situation related to the defense's implementation of the exercise. That's how I now understand the Council of States, and that's an interesting new information. So this is also the case with cohorts when you carry out the quarantine, that you should have less cohorts than the defense used. The Minister of Defence says he will evaluate what has happened, and whether personal cohorts were implemented in accordance with his advice. Then I wonder, what is the result so far of this evaluation? Did the defense follow up what the defence minister said?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1312	Briefly to the first question from the representative: it should not be surprising that a fast-growing outbreak in North Follo also affects the situation in the rest of Norway. It has to be crystal clear with the experiences we've had after that. So to the recommendations of the Public Health Institute and the Health Directorate, they were taken in when we designed the regulation of the FDA, and the defence is related to the regulation. It's a regulation that's also been adjusted along the way, as the infection situation is degenerate and we had to take new considerations into account in order to carry out both quarantine, isolation and the infection protection part in connection with these exercises. It's a complex situation. We've been doing a lot of planning, and we've also received allies since before Christmas, and we've been adjusting along the way. The evaluation shows, in general, that the infectious disease regime we imposed has worked. For the time being, we have not seen contamination of civil society, not seen infection between nations or to Norwegian forces, and the number of quarantines has fallen considerably.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1324	‘Import infection has contributed to both the first and second waves of coronary infection in Norway. In March 2020, the defence winter exercise was canceled due to a risk of infection. About 3,000 foreign soldiers were to participate in this year’s winter exercise. Very many had already arrived in North Norway when the exercise was decided to cancel. About 100 foreign soldiers have detected covid-19, several of them with the mutated virus. How has the government secured the local population and protected them from the infection pressure that occurred during the planned winter exercise?’ I'm obliged to draw attention to the fact that the number 100 is from last week.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1333	I must initially praise the Workers' Party in order to collect two good questions, because the question highlights the matter from both sides, both operationally and from how we interact with the population. We have a code of infection for the entry of allies who took into account that we were in a pandemic, and there we also put great emphasis on protecting the local population. One thing we put in extra effort was contact with local policy authorities, local health authorities and regional health authorities, so that we could describe as much as possible the situation we are going to address. Then we've kept that contact close throughout the structure of the exercise, and the regulation has in many ways provided more stringent leadership for the defense than the practices we've had in society. Then it is true that 100 allied personnel have been diagnosed with coviditis since they arrived in the country. It's beyond what we thought would be the number, all the time they were tested before they came, and would be non-infectious. Now the number of infections is considerably lower. There's five, and a much lower number is in quarantine too, so the infectious disease regime has worked. Nor have we seen any transmission of infection from the forces to the civilian population yet – we hope to let it go – nor have we seen any infection between nations or over to Norwegian forces, so in general I believe that the reasons we took have worked. I have recorded that questions have been raised along the way from rapporteurs and from municipal doctors whether they could have been more closely seated in planning, whether or not they could have been sitting tighter along the way. We take with us all the advice, just because accepting forces that come to help us, including in a pandemic, has been a good exercise element. That's how you train, and then you fail. Then you have also learned something, if you have recorded what caused you to fail when you trained – so we have gathered a lot of knowledge on the military side over the last few months.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1344	According to information in Filter News, the government was warned before Christmas that it is not acceptable to carry out quarantine in groups of 40, that British soldiers should not be exempted from the entry quarantine legislation, and that it should also be tightened up for soldiers from other countries. So this was information that the government got before Christmas. The Council of State points out in its reply that close dialogue has been established with local authorities, local politicians, etc. At the same time, local authorities in the municipalities concerned say that they have not been involved in planning, and that they only came in when the first cases of infection became known. So I wonder if the government can explain when the local authorities were informed about these warnings that the government received before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1351	The advice that came before Christmas is that we produce the regulation to regulate the reception of allies — entry, quarantine and protection of allies. We ask for advice from many universities when we developed something like that, including from health, and we also took into account the advice from the Public Health Institute and the Health Directorate. We said there should be a maximum of 40 in the quarantine groups, but as small groups as possible. When the mutated virus appeared, British soldiers were put into quarantine groups at a maximum of five. As regards contact with local health authorities and regional health authorities, it has been close. The municipal councillor in Målselv and Bardu said that he would have liked to have been acquainted with the advice of the Public Health Institute and the Health Directorate. It's probably a learning point, but it's probably more about how knowledge goes on the health side, because the defense didn't get that advice either. They had to deal with a regulation, and they were dealing with that regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1358	Then I think I'm really just asking the question again. The government received these warnings before Christmas. Local doctors point out that they should have been involved before. They say that they were actually first connected when the infection was a fact. So the question is, regarding the information that the government received before Christmas, when were the municipalities and municipal doctors connected to? When, specifically, were the municipalities connected? The Council of State says that the dialogue with local authorities has been close and good.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1363	Yes, and I maintain that the dialogue with local authorities has been close and good. Those advices are knowledge from the Institute of Public Health which is fortunately published gradually, so that we can take the debate in Norway on what was said, and what lies behind the decisions we make in government. I think that's a very good model we've chosen in Norway, because it allows us to include all the knowledge in the public debate in a completely different way. The municipal supervisor, the infectious agent, Bardu and Målself have probably received the information when it became public from the Public Health Institute, but it is not that everyone participates in the decisions when a regulation is drawn up. It's the government that does it. You pick up advice, you make a prescription, and then you adopt it. The defence has been in line with the regulations. The infectious disease supervisor has dealt with the authorities and the tasks he has as an infectious agent in Bardu and Målself, and I believe that the result shows that this has been done very well by the infectious disease supervisor. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1370	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1378	‘Infective measures have hit children and young people hard. Health caregivers are removed from their tasks with children and young people, teachers are worn out and are too few to reach all the tasks, leisure services are suspended. A survey carried out by the Norwegian Barometer shows that 6 out of 10 municipalities believe that the coronary apathy has a negative impact on the economy, and that there is a bad impact on schools. More cuts now will hit children and young people even more. That must be prevented. Will the Council of State support the Socialist Left Party's proposal for more money to the municipalities now to prevent such cuts?'
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1385	The government has clearly shown that the local government sector is to be compensated for additional and minor revenue arising from the coronary apathy. It is difficult to estimate the exact impact of the outbreak on municipalities. The government has therefore, together with the KS, set up a working group to identify the economic consequences of the coronary crisis. The Working Party delivered its first interim report on 16 October 2020. The report shows that for 2020 there is a good correlation between the economic impact on the municipal sector and the government’s compensatory measures. The working group will issue a new report by 1 April following the availability of 2020 financial statements. Then we'll get an even better picture of the overall economic impact on the municipal sector so far. So far, the size has granted a total of 11.7 billion. kr in the corona measures for the municipality sector for 2021. One and a half billion. the funds have been allocated as discretionary means to the municipalities. The funds can thus be targeted at municipalities with the main challenges. Since this has been allocated as free resources, each municipality and county may allocate funds to the establishments where the needs are greatest. The government has proposed a further 3.3 billion. kr i Prop. 79 S for 2020-2021 for the municipal sector in 2021. Then the government will return to the revised budget 2021 with the follow-up of the working group report. We will then both assess whether the compensation granted for 2020 is sufficient and re-assess the need for funds for the municipal sector for 2021. I also get worried when I hear about school managers who don't get to cover school expenses as a result of the pandemic. In the autumn we could even read in the Evening Post that the schools in Trondheim had been informed by the municipality that the additional expenses due to the Korona had to be covered by the ordinary budget. Let me therefore be clear about the following: The government has to set up for the municipalities, so that the municipalities can set up for the schools. But it assumes that the municipalities prioritize the schools in their budgets. We've compensated for extra costs and less revenue up to now, and we're also going to do it in the future. There is therefore no need to cut off the provision of services to children and young people, even at school, because of corona. Let me add that in the last few days I have had digital meetings with almost all of the municipalities of the country, the state administrators, the different regions and the county rapporteurs – just as it is still Northernland. Continuously, the feedback is that we met quite well with the compensation we have set up for 2020. There will, of course, be some variations at a single municipality level, but the continuous feedback is that we met well for 2020. I'm glad. So that doesn't mean we're going to hit well for 2021, we still have to follow the situation closely in the future. So as part of that, we have a meeting with all the municipalities in the country to get their direct feedback.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1400	It seems that the Council of State does not fully take into account what is stated in this survey from the Norwegian Barometer, namely that one in three municipalities says they will report a deficit in 2021. Then they have to cut something down. I have had contact with Trysil, for example, who says they need 7 billion. kr – no, 7 million. NOK in compensation, and Øyer, who says they have 5 million missing. kr in compensation. There is a lot of money for small municipalities. The problem here is that the corona and what happens now with children and young people and the offers to them have shown that more people are needed, so there are enough people to do all the problems in a pandemic. Does the Council of State see the need for increased staff in kindergartens and schools — and also care for that part — to carry out all the tasks that local authorities have now been given?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1407	I assume that the municipalities are following up their different service areas and deploying the resources needed to deal with the situation they are currently facing. And then I'm very happy that there were millions, not billions, in Trysil and Øyer. Of course, I'm going to have a dialogue with the two municipalities. This is why I also made it clear to the representative that we have not set the finish line for 2020, we have to look at the accounting figures as well. We're a button month into 2021, and now making up the status of how 2021 is going to be at the end of the year, I think it's a little too early, because we don't know yet how this year is going to evolve. When we come to review, we'll know a little bit more about how we've hit so far for the first half of 2021. Maybe we have a better idea of what the second half of 2021 looks like. Our aim is to meet as best as possible both for the individual municipality and for the sector as a whole in our compensation schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1414	It would have been wise to ensure that the municipalities now had such a good economy that they could use their entire capacity to follow up the effects of the corona and not find anyone to cancel. A very specific other question about municipal economics in this respect is that while private cinemas, swimming pools, sports facilities, for example. receive state corona aid, do not receive municipal swimming pools. Hamar is one example of that. There the rapporteur says that the government is concerned with measures aimed at children and young people. The cinema, for example, which does not receive grants, and the Anchor Forest, which is the swimming pool, is exactly that. And while the animal park in Kristiansand gets $12 million. NOK in aid and pays dividends of SEK 10 million. So, kr, the municipalities that own these facilities don't have anything covered, while private ones get it. Does the Council of State not see that this affects the economy of these municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1421	The rapporteur in Hamar, Busterud, also brought this up with me when I spoke with the municipalities last week. We are absolutely committed to looking at how we can include municipal sport and culture in the monitoring we do of the economic impact on the municipal sector. This is a task that the working group we have with KS has received. They're going to look at it in their further work, so we're just going to take into account the problem that the representative is raising. So to the representative's more overarching input to this: shouldn't we just give the municipalities a lot of money now and see how it goes? This has been addressed by the representative since March, really, but so far the overview shows that we have met quite well with what the state has put up with. I think the model we've chosen has been pretty good. KS is closely connected, and individual municipalities are also connected in the process.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1431	‘A report from the Nordic Institute for Innovation, Research and Education Studies dealing with the Norwegian higher education admission system has recently been consulted. The report deals, among other things, with the character requirements in mathematics for elementary school teacher education 1–7. steps. The consultation shows that the character requirement has very little support among teachers. One of the institutions states that there is little evidence that grade 4 makes a student more suitable for the teaching profession than grade 3. What professional evidence can the Council of State refer to, in support of maintaining the character requirement?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1438	I thank the representative for the question. The background to the introduction of the qualification requirement in mathematics was the goal of getting even better qualified applicants and applicants who had even better prerequisites for completing the education. The representative Arnstad refers to the NIFU report ‘Enrolment to higher education: a study of the consequences of the quota and the calculation of points focusing on psychology, medicine, law and primary school teacher education’, which came in March last year. In the report, NIFU writes about primary school teacher training for steps 1 to 7: «Regression analyses show that the characteristics of upper secondary education have a positive link with the implementation of higher education credits and grades.» Furthermore, they write: ‘A study of the relationship between change in character requirement 4 in mathematics in 2016 and goal of implementation shows that students carry out the study to a greater extent after the change, measured by active status and study score.’ On behalf of the country's students I have to say that this is very good news. And we'll see that again in the numbers that we have. Among the students who started primary school education in 2012, they had 20.6 pst. fell off after one year. Of the coal that started in 2018, 15.8 pst. fell off after one year. And the positive development continues. Fresh figures from the Norwegian Research Center show that 13.5 pst. of those starting in 2019, fell after the first year of study. So it's going down systematically. It is also worth bearing in mind that all students in elementary school teacher education from stages 1 to 7 have mathematics as a subject of education. So they're qualified to teach mathematics. In addition, it's worth mentioning that mathematics is the subject where the parents' educational background has the most to say about the character you get in the subject when you leave primary school. Here the teachers can really make an important difference. Then I think it's the wrong solution to lower the requirements in mathematics. As the representative notes, there are several people who are sceptical about the requirement of 4 in mathematics. However, it is worth noting that one of the largest teacher training institutions in Norway, NTNU, supports this requirement. They write that mathematics, along with Norwegian, is a subject of very general interest, and that it is therefore important for students with a good knowledge base in the subject. NTNU also believes that the conduct of the study by several students suggests that the requirement should be maintained. All of this, I believe, is good professional reasons for maintaining today's character requirements for the primary school teacher training for stages 1-7.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1467	Yeah, NTNU was probably the only one in the round of consultations that suggested that one should still have four requirements in mathematics. All the other colleges and universities have expressed themselves very critically. For example, the University of Eastfold writes:«There is little evidence that grade 4 makes a student more suitable for the teaching profession than grade 3.» The University of the West writes: ‘It is through education that students should qualify for the teaching profession, and for this reason there is no need for a grade 4 requirement in mathematics.’ The University of Agder writes that ‘there is reason to ask questions about today’s rating requirement for recording works after the intention or whether it can be re-assessed’. OsloMet writes that ‘it is not a good professional evidence to claim that the introduction of the grade 4 requirement in mathematics has had a positive outcome’. The head of the institute there is also very clear that she believes that there are unfortunate aspects to the standing of study places and that one can have fewer teachers trained. Last year, the search for primary school teacher education went down by a total of 9 pst. Doesn't this make any impression on the Council of States at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1482	Well, it's clear that there's always a professional disagreement in a sector as large as the university and higher education sectors are, even about this kind of thing. Now I do not think the representative should discuss the importance of NTNU in both his own region and Norway. It's a great and important teacher who gives his advice. What the representative asked me about was the professional coating to have the character requirement 4. Many institutions may express themselves critically against it, but the professional coating is therefore the fact that the implementation of teacher training is increasing. One thing is how many people come in, another thing is how many people get out of school and become good, great teachers for our children. The second is that we see that the applicant figures are among those who are qualified to participate in teacher training, and to which NIFU also refers in its report: the link between the grades from higher education and the completion and production of higher education credits is obvious. So I believe that the professional arguments are many and good, although it is absolutely right that there is disagreement in the sector as to whether it is right to do so or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1491	I understand that it is difficult to make an impression on the Council of State and the Right on this issue. It seems that it has evolved almost into some sort of ideological question about four-dimensional requirements in mathematics. In an article of this survey, the Council of State states: ‘Mathematics is the subject where it has the most to say whether your parents have higher education or not. Schools are unable to compensate for social differences at home. Increasing the level of qualification for teacher training is one of many things that should contribute to it.’ It seems quite contradictory to me that it's going to help, because it makes it even more difficult for those who don't have the ballast to get into the teacher's education. Now, as far as I understand, the Right Programme Committee has proposed that one should also make a four-claim in Norwegian and English. Is it true that the right hand controls that all those who attend the teacher's training must have the 4th grade on average?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1503	So first of all, what's my real point is that the background of parents has a lot to say about how to do it in mathematics at school, is that it's an argument for having teachers who are good at math. My point is that we need teachers who can compensate for it in such a way that even those who have parents who are struggling to help them with mathematics at home get high grades in math and themselves can become e.g. teachers. It is also quite right – and this is not a new point of view; we also opted for this in 2013 – that the long-term objective of the Right is also to introduce skills requirements and recording requirements in Norwegian and English. It's because we think it's important to make sure you also have basic skills in these subjects. The goal, of course, must be that the number of applicants is so high in teacher training that it becomes a very high average in order to get in. Then, of course, this discussion will be less necessary, but so far we have introduced five-year master's education, we have made career paths in the classroom, we have increased admission requirements, and in that way we are also increasing the status of the teaching profession.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1513	I have the following questions for the Minister for Culture and Gender Equality: ‘A number of the country’s cultural houses and cinemas have been required by the Council of Culture to repay previously granted compensation for lost income related to the officially imposed disease protection measures. In good faith, the actors have sought the requirements and guidelines presented by the Culture Council and have been granted the support. Now they have to pay back. What action will the Council of State take to help the cinemas and cultural houses affected by an unreasonable recovery claim and which have neither applied for nor been able to seek other arrangements for loss of income?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1522	The Culture Council has assessed that the cinemas and cultural houses which have received conversion decisions and repayment requirements do not meet the conditions laid down in the Regulation on compensation for the cultural sector. These cinemas and cultural houses are part of the municipality and the compensation scheme for the cultural sector has not included public enterprises. The losses and additional expenditure incurred by the municipalities as a result of the pandemic are to be offset mainly by funds provided by the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and the Ministry of Modernisation. This also applies to income losses related to municipal cultural activities. It goes without saying that municipalities should not be compensated for the same losses or additional costs from several schemes. That would give overcompensation. The municipal cinemas and cultural houses that have received repayments from the Council of Culture are legally part of the municipality. It is a central condition of the scheme regulation that the organiser ‘promotely communicates or makes art and culture available to the public’. The municipalities don't. For example, demarcation against municipalities has: background to the Grand Duchy's request decision No. 407 of 19 March 2020. A unanimous increase, including the votes of all the parties in the Centre, decided that ‘public establishments’ should not be included in the scheme. The municipal sector received more than 20 billion in 2020. kr in additional appropriations and financial measures. Of this, 18.7 billion was. appropriations justified in the coronary apathy. This includes compensation for cultural losses and expenses. For the first half of 2021, Stortinget has granted 8.6 billion. kr to the local government sector to compensate for additional expenditure and loss of income resulting from the pandemic. The funds are not earmarked, and it is up to the municipalities to assess how these funds are to be used. The level of covid-19 compensation for municipalities over the KMD budget is based on estimates from a working group set up by the government. The working group consists of representatives from the departments concerned, the municipal sector and the KS. The mandate of the working group is to identify expenditure and revenue affected by the pandemic in the municipal sector. In cooperation with the municipal sector in the autumn, KS carried out a survey on the basis of which compensation was calculated for the first half of 2021. The KS reporting has been obtained from the municipalities, seems to be deficient in the fields of culture, volunteering and sport. Both the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Culture are concerned that this working group pays particular attention to ensuring the quality of the data base for compensation in the fields of culture, sport and volunteering in future studies. The government has also announced that it will come back with new assessments in the context of the revised national budget. Municipal cinemas and cultural houses are covered by the cultural sector incentive scheme, both the scheme in force in 2020 and the recently adopted scheme in force for the first half of 2021. This is because the incentive scheme should not compensate for losses but stimulate cultural activity throughout the country. The Culture Council has informed that approx. 60 municipal cinemas and cultural houses by the end of 2020 had received in total more than 23 million. kr from this incentive scheme. This working group is working on new estimates for 2020 and the report will be available by 1 April 2021. There is a lot of uncertainty, and some municipalities have had higher expenditures than others. In the future, the working group will therefore need to focus its efforts on the main challenges facing municipalities. The Ministry of Culture is involved in the work of the working group on the revised national budget and will, of course, also help to maximise the data base in the field of culture. So I believe that the right thing is that municipal cinemas and cultural houses that are part of the municipality are compensated for the consequences of the pandemic through the general funds that the local government sector receives over KMD's budget. However, I understand that the actors concerned feel that it is demanding that decisions be converted and that there will be a demand for reimbursement of aid. Then, for the sake of order, I would just like to point out that 4 out of 34 actors have complained about the Culture Council's decision, and the complaints are now under consideration in the subject of complaints.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1560	The President will believe that the Council of State here has been able to set the world record in terms of words per minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1565	I don't know if I got all of the answer to the council, but what's a little important here is that regardless of what the council has decided, it's even now that these municipal cultural houses and the cinemas aren't double-compensated, because they haven't applied for any other scheme in the same period. They have been good in the class and in good faith have dealt with the advice they received from the Council of Culture. When the municipalities were to report what they had of expenses in the first half of the Corona Year last year, they did not take that kind of expenses. Then, suddenly, we are in a situation where just these municipal cinemas and cultural houses do not get any compensation for the losses they have actually suffered. Then it is with pleasure that I believe that you should come back in the revised budget and see if you can perhaps drop the refund claim in connection with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1572	We're going to come back to this in the revised budget. It is important to answer the question as carefully as possible, so we have a complementary answer. And even if it went a little fast, this is written down, and I've also delivered the script, so that you can read it in peace and at ease. You have to remember that from the government's side we've set up almost 8.7 billion. kr extra on the cultural budget. Among other things, municipal cinemas and cultural houses will be able to apply for the incentive scheme, as I was concerned with. It has done about 60 pieces, as I was in the house, and they got 23 million before Christmas. kr. Then it is important to say that, as far as municipalities are concerned, they are not primarily managed through the Ministry of Culture's budget, but through the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and the Ministry of Modernisation's budget. I guess that's the amount up there in approx. 28 B.C.E. kr, if you sum up the various, to take care of the local government sector, precisely because they have lost some revenue as a result of the coronary apathy. So that's what you're doing from the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernization.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1581	Thank you for your answer. In this pandemic, I feel that we are totally dependent on the confidence of the population to end up with the infectious diseases. And one of the reasons why you do that is that you've been promised that the authorities will be prepared for those affected financially. Then it becomes a little difficult when in some municipalities you don't get the offer on the cultural and cinema front because they have to repay an amount, while in the neighbouring municipality you would like to get a lot of support because they have a different form of organisation. That's what makes people start to wonder, are we really going to end up with this? Does the Council of State see that it is a challenge every time it is biased? I know that the Council of State has said that we should try to close again, but I still miss working a little more actively to reconstruct arrangements, for example. the absence of support for community houses and town halls – they fall through – or the absence of participation of the smallest localities in media support, as they fall through. How does the minister now think he's going to attack all the holes that we actually know are in his area?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1586	First, I have to say that we have to admit that there are a lot of people who find it incredibly difficult in this pandemic, and no matter how many resources the government takes initiative in, and possibly the Stortinge plus on, no financial social welfare schemes, compensation schemes and incentive schemes will be able to compensate for a normal situation, a normal situation where you don't have a pandemic, and where society goes on the rails. Norway is one of the most successful economies in the world. It can't compensate a state because we have a coronary apathy. But we still manage to compensate in such a way that I can stand here on this platform and say that we are among those countries in the world – perhaps that country in the world – that are most liberal in the field of culture, for those who come under the budget framework of the Ministry of Culture. Even then I know that not everyone is taken in a proper way. We've constantly extended, adjusted and increased the arrangements, adapted them, and we're going to do that as well. I know that the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation is now working to look at this, and we have announced that we will come back to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1594	‘Most people who buy a new car assess electric car or hybrid, but if there is to be a real choice for everyone, a strong expansion of the charging infrastructure is needed. Norwegian Electric Car Association believes the need is 9,600 high-speed chargers by 2025, while today we have 3,300. The government has signaled that Finnmark will receive additional support, but reach and capacity are challenging in other parts of the country as well. People living in town have little opportunity to charge. Why has the government not developed a comprehensive charging strategy to make it easier to make good choices?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1601	A few weeks ago, the government presented our 2030 climate plan, which includes: shows how we will halve emissions in the transport sector by 2030 compared to 2005. Charge infrastructure is an essential part of that plan. In order to achieve the objectives set by the government for zero-emission vehicles, there is a requirement that charging infrastructure is available throughout the country. For passenger cars and light vans, there are today good capacity for charging, and new charging stations are being built throughout the country. Here, Enova has played an important role and provided financial support to the necessary charging infrastructure to provide a basis for commercial operations. Since 2015, Enova has supported the development of charging infrastructure for electric cars with a total of approximately 150 million. kr. In 2020, aid of 64.5 million was granted. SEK to 25 new charging stations in Troms and Finnmark. The government suggests that development should be mainly market driven, but that Enova supports expansions where there is still a lack of necessary charging infrastructure, for example. because it does not pay for commercial operators to establish themselves. In the future, the need for charging infrastructure will be affected by the number of running gear and the need for charging. The battery and range of new electric cars are getting better and better, and gradually several charge the car home. In order to make it even easier to let home, the law on barges has now been amended, so that unitholders of the barges are given the right to set up charging points for an electric car and a chargeable hybrid car, with the corresponding clarifications in the Owners' Section Act. In order to obtain a number of zero-emission vehicles, the government will be required by the building technical regulation that new constructions and constructions will be refurbished as loaders. This means that electric vehicle charging infrastructure leadways have been prepared and adequate space is provided for installations necessary for the installation of the electrical charging system. The planning and development of road and charging infrastructure should also be seen in a context. The Ministry of Transport has, for example, asked the Directorate of Road to draw up a strategy for rest areas, which includes a basis for facilitating charging stations in main and daily rest areas, for example. by assessing the feasibility of running sufficient power, set-aside, etc. The Ministry of Transport has asked for the strategy to describe the possibilities for new models of private and public cooperation on major slots as market players turn to new businesses, among others. hooked up to charge for electric car. Market participants should meet clear, non-discriminatory and prudent conditions in the dialogue they have with the State Road Service about it. An important consideration is that users of different electric cars can charge in rest areas where charging points are established. We will come back to this in the context of the National Transport Plan. Charging queues are a signal to actors that it will pay to establish more charging infrastructure. As a result, charging infrastructure is also increasingly established. That's good, and there's every reason to believe that that development will continue on commercial terms, with the support of the state where there's no basis for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1622	Thanks for the answer. There is no doubt that there is a lot of good going on both in the development of new electric and hybrid vehicles and in the development of infrastructure. But for a lot of people, investing in a car is quite expensive, and they want to have a security for the value they invest in, and they want a car that works. We still know that there are challenges related to the rental of power in the network, especially in the districts, that there are high plant contributions, there is often a long process time, and it is also difficult to find suitable land. But my follow-up question is, when do we get new NVE net tariffs that enable us to meet that challenge in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1631	Just that question I think I would rather be addressed to the oil and energy minister, who is responsible for it, but I know that it is going to be working well and that it has a model of hearing, and that the matter is being dealt with. The question of a network tariff father is a demanding question, because there are a lot of people who really want to change how they should change, but not all of them agree. So what can make it more profitable to establish one very desired purpose can make it miserable to establish something else that the Storting is also very interested in happening. But I think I have to leave it to my colleague, Tina Bru, to reply to more details about it. Otherwise, I would say that when it comes to construction contributions, it is important that one gives some signals to the market as to where it is most profitable to build infrastructure, and that we do not build anything that is too expensive, or spend too much public money on structures that are not predictable. Fortunately, there are plenty of very sensible and reasonable structures, and they happen on an ongoing basis. I hope there'll be many more in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1640	It's quite right that there are complex issues. The Council of State is Minister for Climate Change. Meeting the new challenges with the climate, not least in the transport sector, is challenging, but good solutions need to be found. It is perhaps the biggest challenge in cities to find good charging facilities, because not all of them have a dwelling where they have the possibility of garages or to charge their homes. They live in blocks and park in zone parking, so the next and last follow-up questions are: how are we going to solve this challenge so it really becomes available? Although they can use a lot of public transport in cities, there is still a great need to have their own car and not necessarily just to have systems of car rental and other schemes. So that's the big challenge in the end -- in addition to the housing laws.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1647	Thank you for a good question, and that's an interesting question. In the public debate, sometimes the impression may be that there are more scattered areas and in the districts that it is very little preferable to have an electric car, while the reality is that in many of those places, among others. where I come from, has almost every possibility of getting home. There is something that is often missing in the city core. We've done a lot with it, for example. to grant to those who live in barricades and to share a right to ask for the provision of charging infrastructure. There's a new grip that has a lot of meaning, and many places it'll be useful. It is clear that there are also some places in cities where there is simply not enough room for parking in the whole place where people live. We can probably discuss that from an electric car perspective, but I also think I would stress that it's a point that when a bus gets into a dense city center with a lot of people, it'll sometimes be a little impractical to have a car – regardless of whether it's going on power or on fossil fuel. As I see the political leadership in our cities, for example. in both Bergen and Oslo, there is no desire for much more cars into the city center.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1654	Then the ordinary question mark is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-10.ana.ud232e1668	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? – Nobody does, and the meeting has been cancelled.
