ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e113	For the sake of infection prevention, the President proposes that the public gallery be closed during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e120	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today and tomorrow – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Svein Harberg. Other proposals are not available, and Svein Harberg is unanimously elected president of today's and tomorrow's meetings. The representative, Frida Melvær, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e129	On behalf of the representatives of Lene Vågslid, Peter Frölich, Jenny Klinge, Per-Willy Amundsen, Solveig Schytz, Geir Tuskedal and myself, I would like to make a proposal to extend temporary rules on measures to address the negative consequences of covid-19 during criminal proceedings. At the same time, I ask that the proposal be dealt with in accordance with Rule 39(c) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e136	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e156	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e163	This proposal proposes amendments to the Law on Higher Education, the Law on Vocational Qualifications and the Law on Education and Training. Furthermore, a technical amendment to the Student Cooperation Act is proposed in order to correct a paragraph which, in the event of an error, has fallen out of a provision of a previous legislative amendment. In this overall proposal, the government proposes several legislative changes as a follow-up to several of the proposals made by the Aune Committee in its investigation of the law, as well as a number of other proposals. A provision is proposed on the objectives and tasks of universities and higher education institutions. The sustainability perspective is included in the objective. It is also proposed to clarify the provisions on the recognition or credit of foreign higher education in Norway between Norwegian institutions. The requirement that the choice of student bodies be liquidated with urn selection is removed, so that student democracies can decide for themselves how to make choices. It is also proposed to legislate for institutions to document the extent of the organisation they do for student democracy. The proposals contained in the proposal are a strengthening of students' rights. It provides clarification of the learning environment concept and the legal setting of requirements for two sensors. The prohibition of retaliation and the duty of the Board to prevent sexual harassment are maintained. It is also proposed to make education available to more people by removing the age limit of 25 in order to obtain exemptions from general study competence. The proposal proposes to clarify rules on expulsion in the event of disruptive behaviour and to require institutions to report the use of false testimonies to the police. It is proposed that the law explicitly states that institutions should be able to obtain police attestations both when entering and en route to current education. It is proposed to abolish the admission of institutions to the Executive Director on an annual basis when the institutions have chosen the Vice-Chairman to appoint the Director on a permanent basis. The rules governing the weighting of votes in the selection of the Vice-Chancellor of the institutions which have chosen the Vice-Chancellor are proposed to be amended so that the votes of the employees are counted equally, irrespective of whether they are professional or administrative. The proposal also underlines that the free principle of higher education should be established. The proposal proposes changes to ensure the processing of personal data and to extend the use of the Witness Target Portal. The proposal proposes further amendments to the Law on Vocational Education in order to clarify requirements for the knowledge base of vocational education and to clarify the specific nature of the training and its link with the labour market. It is also proposed to remove the requirement for the minimum length of vocational education and to change the rules on admission to vocational education and training. The proposal proposes amendments to the Professional Qualifications Act in order to make it easier for persons with training and professional practices from third countries to obtain their qualifications in order to pursue regulated professions in Norway. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in the work on the matter and stress that the Left supports the Government's proposals, which are set out in the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e180	What the government is proposing here is an audit. The Labour Party had expected, on the basis of the Aune Committee's investigation, a more comprehensive legislative proposal. That being said, it is almost as important for us as what is not proposed. It is good that some of the recommendations of the Aune Committee are parked, such as: the new management model, the three-step character scale and the removal of gender points. The system of additional points based on gender has a measurable and smoothing effect that the Working Party will continue. Then the Labour Party promotes some proposals relating to working conditions. The temporary nature of the academy weakens the recruitment process. Younger researchers and women are the most hit. We want staff working conditions to be included in the long-term plan for higher education and research and propose an investigation of the working conditions and career opportunities of researchers. An action plan is also needed to reduce the temporaryity of the sector, and we are grateful for the good input from the Swedish Research Association and the NTL. The postdoctor was meant to be a position of qualification, but practised in a way that undermines his intention. Professionals are referred to years of uncertainty and loose association. Therefore, we suggest that there should be no access to employment for more than one period as a postdoctor, identical to what the Aune Committee proposes. As far as student democracy is concerned, we propose to maintain the requirement of urination for student bodies. We believe that freedom of choice here can lead to centralisation of the power of the institutions, and in a future characterised by multi-campus and more decentralised education, we believe it is important that all students are guaranteed equal opportunities to vote wherever they study. This also supports NSO, and I am a little surprised that the government does not listen to the students' speakers in this case. Furthermore, we believe that the law should have a separate learning environment chapter for the students. Clear minimum requirements for the learning environment are important and NSO input should be followed up in both regulation and later new law. We want to highlight, in particular, the need for universal design for all parts of the learning environment, including the digital one. Then we see that there are some unexplained relationships related to the general rule of public lectures, and it's been updated by the pandemic. It can't be like that, we believe, that the level of publicity is left to the local discretion. Developments are moving towards more digitised education and lifelong learning. For equal rights to education, we ask the government to clarify how to interpret and practice today's § 3-8 for digital lectures. With that, I take up the proposals that the Workers' Party is involved in promoting in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e195	The representative Nina Sandberg has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e200	Today’s debate and future decisions are the biggest review and revision of the Higher Education Act since 2005. It may be a good thing to be involved, too much has happened in the sector since then, and today's adjustments are therefore good government intervention, so that further development can be met in an even better way. How further academic freedom can be strengthened and maintained becomes an important task for the group of experts proposed, but the principle of institutional autonomy and academic freedom remains enshrined in the law. When we have the law of treatment, I think it is important to emphasise just this. In a world society where we see that the free mind is being challenged more often, research and professional environments need to be free and professionally strong in the societal debate, so that we are challenged, formed and developed as a society – then this becomes increasingly important. The urge to control individual matters must be protected by the law, and we should rather get the assignment to the boards in a good way. The future is unknown, but we can meet it well prepared. Our educational institutions are in this context one of the most important things we have in the toolbox. Today’s debate must therefore also be seen in the context of the recently addressed impact assessments on occupational relevance and management of the sector. The big picture is that we have a very good starting point, and we have a sector that is significantly better rusted than eight years ago. Today, when we decide to strengthen students' rights and both influence the choices and organisation of student bodies, we build on our efforts over the last few years – everything from including student representation in the boards, as the red-greens have removed, to raising student support to a historical level. The requirement for two sensors of both a higher and a lower degree is also an approach that helps to strengthen students’ rights and contributes to a good assessment situation. Extension of the Witness Target Portal and necessary legal adjustments related to digital tools, such as withdrawing the vocational schools, are other steps that make it easier, better and more transparent for the students and those who have completed, with access to what is of diploma. I would also like to highlight the removal of the minimum level of vocational education, which is fully in line with the needs of industry and society, and which supports the provision of vocational schools with what they are best at: short, targeted, relevant and sought-after education. These are important for the individual and the transformation of society and build up under the goal of learning throughout life. There is a lot more, but briefly this is a lot of work that helps to raise and encapsulate the UH sector and the vocational schools in a good way, making it easier to deliver on the important societal mission for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e215	The main thrust of the proposed amendments is that of the Progress Party. We would like, among other things: positively propose to clarify rules on expulsion and to require institutions to report on the use of false testimonies by the police. The Party welcomes the removal of the minimum length of vocational education, which is currently at least six months’ duration, and the fact that recognition of foreign education is to be streamlined and simplified. The progress is also positive for there to be two, not just one, sensors for all types of exams at the bachelor and master levels. This will strengthen the legal certainty of the students. I support most of the hearing bodies, but I think it is a concern that the sector is assigned additional tasks without accompanying funding. The Progress Party will point out that the Ministry of Justice and Defence in its call for consultations writes that the sample takes little account of the threat posed to education and research institutions in Western democracies. This is something the Progress Party also addressed in the Mobility Communication, and which we believe should have been dealt with more thoroughly. The threat assessments of the PST and the Intelligence Service warn of the impact operations of in particular Russian, Chinese and Iranian intelligence. In this context, the Progress Party is very critical that the government is actively working to increase the cooperation of research communities with countries and environments defined by Norway as a major safety risk. The Progress Party considers that the strategic interests and willingness of China and Russia to use secret intelligence and espionage to achieve targets that could compromise Norway’s security should not be underestimated. Therefore, we are pleased that this time an overall committee considers it important to have regular and formalised contacts between the PST and Norwegian higher education and research institutions, and that the annual threat assessments of the PST must be made available at all levels of higher education and research. This was the only case of the Progress Party in earlier this year. We made a concrete proposal on the exact wording I was reading right now. Then we stayed all alone. Now there is an overall committee that agrees. I'm glad. The Party also notes that the proposition provides for the continuation of gender equality, which implies a direct gender discrimination. The progressing party believes that not getting into an education despite being the best qualified is very serious for the individual. The Progress Party is opposed to all forms of discrimination. We will therefore not allow gender points and promote a concrete proposal on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e228	The representative Roy Steffensen then addressed the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e233	The Government, in its joint proposal, proposes changes to the greater and lesser extent of several laws in the field of education. Earlier in May, the centre party expressed criticisms about the piecewise and split up treatment of the law on higher education. This is about the fact that state governance of higher education and research should be simple and comprehensive, secure the societal mission and make good use of society's investment. Universities and colleges shall provide institutions, employees and students with autonomy, trust, responsibilities and contribute to the achievement of key societal objectives. The Law of Universities and Higher Education is an overarching and predictable way of governing, in which autonomous universities and colleges fulfil the societal mission within national frameworks. Despite many issues this spring, the university and higher education sectors lack the comprehensively revised law, followed by the NOU 2020: 3, the Aune Committee. At the same time, it is good that the size of today’s treatment is set a point for some of the controversial suggestions made by the selection of management models, the introduction of a new character scale and the elimination of the possibility of gender scores for inclusion. The centre party believes that there is a need for a greater degree of division of labour between different institutions. Once the former higher education mission has been incorporated into a common law, this must mean that the sector collectively fulfils the objective of education, research and artistic development at a high international level — not necessarily the individual institution. The ability to do so will depend on the size, the economy and the division of labour of the sector. The Central Party considers that the broad mandate of the institutions should be clarified in the purpose paragraph, including the regional mission and cooperation with the labour and business sectors. And we are proposing this today. This is fundamental, in the same way as academic freedom. The admission of students by institutions is also a prerequisite for activity. The learning environment must be good. Furthermore, student democracy must be strong and living. The centre party is surprised that today's student politicians are not being listened to when it comes to recruiting future students. In the setting we also address the concerns related to the digitisation of the study and the threat picture, not to forget the vocational school offer and requirements for them. School students should know that the education they take is good and is overdue. Pandemics and closed campers must continue to provide learning. Finally, I would like to address the proposal from the centre party and the proposal from the centre party and SV together are behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e252	The representative Marit Knutsdatter Strand then brought up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e257	The university and higher education sectors need a comprehensive, well-worked law. Instead, the government selects some changes that are needed in the short term. Academic freedom is a fundamental principle of all scientific work, and the principle should therefore be enshrined in the Law of Higher Education at all times. It is essential that research and development be carried out by independent research communities and based on academic freedom and scientific criteria. I would like to stress that students have an important role in the governance of universities and colleges, and that it is important to strengthen student democracy. The law must ensure the widest possible democratic basis for student representation. That is why we are critical of the proposal that the student bodies themselves should choose the form of elections. We fear that this will go beyond the democratic basis of student representation and lead to the centralisation of student democratic power in the institutions. Elections to the top student-democratic bodies should continue to be made through urination in order to ensure that all students have the opportunity to vote independently of where they are studying at the educational institution. SV will improve the working conditions of students and employees, reduce temporaryity and promote broad recruitment, equality and diversity at universities and colleges. It is necessary to tighten the legislation for the use of temporary posts. The aim must be to reduce the duration of the academy to a level of other employment. This has not been followed well enough by the government. It is unacceptable that universities and colleges are characterised by high temporaryity. It makes the institutions less attractive employers. It's going to be hard to recruit, develop and maintain skilled researchers at universities. Younger researchers and women are particularly affected. Safety at work is as important in universities and colleges as elsewhere, and regular employment shall be normal in working life. We in SV have supported the introduction of requirements for two sensors, because we want to strengthen the legal certainty of students through independent assessment of performance. Otherwise, I believe that the principle of free must be established.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e273	Universities and higher education institutions are central social institutions. The sector has been under development — major developments — since the adoption of the Law on Higher Education in 2005. We are satisfied with the objectives of governance for the sector the government proposes, and I refer otherwise to the good review of the whole of the matter by the case rapporteur. An important principle of the proposition is that institutions should have a high degree of autonomy and academic freedom. Academic freedom has become a concept that most in this room agree is important. But often when a term is used a lot, a forgettable aspect of it can. Then it's important that we apply some important principles for understanding the content of the term. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that academic freedom is not just a legal principle in academic businesses. Academic freedom has a special institutional connection with the research community, disciplines, academies and universities. Most fundamentally, it is about acquiring knowledge by postponing theories and hypotheses for systematic testing and confrontation with already available scientific knowledge and peer review. It's about a right to believe, believe and make public statements and to seek and manage knowledge. These rights are closely related to each other, but they are different. Academic freedom is thus composed of both freedom of belief and expression. But it also has something more. It also has an important ethical and societal side. Therefore, it is important that, while we are fenced on academic freedom, we also look to the space of expression. We must not allow the space of expression in the academy to be snuck in by an ever tougher public climate. The public debate is to build society, and freedom of expression and academic freedom are important building blocks in our democracy. However, academic and organisational freedom is not only about individual freedom, but also about institutional freedom, as the Law of Higher Education also states here: ‘Universities and higher education institutions have the right to design their own professional and value-added basis within the framework laid down by law or by law.’ It is an important principle that universities and higher education institutions should have arm's length distance from the state power. This is important precisely to prevent uniformity and steered research. It is an important principle that it should be possible to form alternative academic institutions for those established by the State. Fortunately, this is common in almost all democratic countries. These universities and higher education institutions also exercise the right to evade their own professional and value-added foundations. These are important rights to safeguard. We are therefore pleased that the government is now putting down a sample to go further on the concept of ‘design of academic freedom’.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e287	Professional schools, colleges and universities are large and important social institutions that depend on high trust in society. That's why the way we run the sector is important. A good law provides a better basis for research at the top of the world, education that leads to more students thrive and complete education, critical societal debate and the development of a liberal and democratic society. I would like to thank the Committee for its thorough consideration of what became a very large pool of proposals with proposals for a number of changes. Today’s Law on Higher Education was adopted in 2005 and has been amended several times after that. Overall, the regulatory framework has been fragmented and unbridled. For the government, it has been important that we have a law that is both effective and ensures the legal certainty of students and employees in a good way. This is why the government is following up several of the proposals proposed by the Aune Committee in its investigation of the entire legal system, as well as a number of other proposals. The government strengthens students' rights by clarifying the concept of learning environment, by legislating the requirement for two sensors during exams, by prohibiting retaliation and by keeping the board's duty to prevent sexual harassment. The government proposes to make the education available to more people by removing the age limit of 25 in order to obtain exemptions from general study competence. This applies to applicants who have, for example: dyslexia – a diagnosis that nobody grows by the time they are 25 years old. In order to make it easier for persons with training and professional practices from third countries to obtain their qualifications for the exercise of regulated professions in Norway, the Government proposes that some of the principles of the Professional Qualifications Act also apply to persons from third countries. The emphasis shall be on the overall qualifications and the changes shall facilitate and speed up the recognition process. We also propose to extend the use of the Witness Target Portal, so that in the future you and I can find our diplomas from both higher education, college, university and higher education. This means that everything gathers in one place, and it makes it easier to pick up and keep track of your own education and further education. The trade schools have really got a boost during this government. Now we propose a change that I hope will make it even easier to respond to society's needs and not least make education even more accessible to people through the possibility of offering shorter courses. Work on better lawmaking does not stop with this proposition. We are working on several proposals to further strengthen students' rights around, for example: leave and organisation. We are continuing to follow up the proposal that the law should have its own learning environment chapter, and we are continuing to work on the provisions of the law on NOKUT. I look forward to discussing the proposition in Stortinget today and the continuation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e306	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e311	The right-wing government ignores the Aune Committee's proposal to reduce the duration of the academy and does not come up with its own proposals in the proposition. Instead, the government is launching a strategy that is not subject to political treatment. Therefore, I would like to ask the Council of State: what concrete measures are there in the strategy for research recruitment and career development that will solve the serious problem that there are far too many highly qualified postdocs that are forced to compete year after year for low pay and for a few permanent posts?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e316	It is also the case that the Aune Committee in its position points out that it is not primarily the law that is the problem of temporaryity, but that it is a cultural problem. That's why we just made this strategy, which is now being consulted, to recruit and create career paths in higher education. That's why I'm waiting for those answers to be heard, to see what we can possibly do with new measures to ensure that we get the temporary. So it's important to point out that the temporaryity actually goes down. It's going in the right direction. This is something we deal with the sector at regular intervals. When it comes to this strategy, we have a number of measures that are just about making that culture better, but it's not the legal work that the Aune Committee points to, and that's not what we've pointed out in this context either. I have great respect for the opposition calling for action in the law now, but I will therefore await the hearing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e325	I thank the Council of State for the answer. My impression of the strategy is that the solutions are largely lacking. A comprehensive use of temporary employment, due to cultural, economic and organisational conditions, cannot be resolved with more career guidance or a better culture of human resources management. In the Workers' Party, we are committed to strengthening the rights of employees and students through the law. The learning environment is the student's working environment, as the Vice-Chairman of the NSO has pointed out quite correctly. The Aune Committee proposed to promise it in the new law, but the government does not follow it up. So why does the Council of State think that there is no need for a minimum level of learning environment or a separate learning environment chapter in the law?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e332	In the proposal we have now submitted to the Stortinget, we do not propose it, but, as I also said in my post, we are continuing to work on the need for a separate learning environment chapter in the law. This is going to come in a little bit more rounds. The reason for this is actually a bit of the coronary apathy – simply that the government has had a lot to do, which means that we wanted to get to the Storting first to clarify some important issues that several of the representatives have referred to. But there will be another round of cleaning up, as well as that we are working on sending new proposals to the students' rights at the hearing before the summer. We have announced that we want to set up a sample to work with academic freedom, which is a debate that will become important in the years to come. So I understand that you want everything clear from the government now. But I think it's also right to do this in several steps, because that also means that we get input from a lot of important actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e337	I thank you again for the answer from the Council of State. My last question is about democracy at the universities. Whether it's due to the pandemic or not, I don't know, but employees and students' democracy is a neglected theme in the governance message and partly in the legislative proposition. Democracy is not always the most pleasant, but it is what is needed to ensure representativeness. That, I believe, is weakened by the amendment of the law that the government is now going through. Why does the Council of State think that he knows better what student democracies need than what the NSO and the students themselves do?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e344	It would be brave to say that I know better than the students, but it is possible to disagree with NSO in how to organize this. I think what the representative refers to is, first of all, the discussion about urination, which several of the representatives have also addressed in their speeches. I simply believe that it is a contribution to strengthening democracy – because it gives students the freedom of choice and student politicians the opportunity to organise these elections themselves – that I should not say that there must be urination. There is also a technological development here in the world, which makes it possible for more people to participate in student democracy. One of the things that worries me, and that makes me think it's necessary to think new, is that the turnout among the students in many of these choices is very low. It also means that we should be able to give student democracies the freedom to organise elections as they seem most appropriate. I fully understand that NSO disagrees, but I think maybe some of the student democracies out in the institutions see that it's good that they get the opportunity to organize a little bit freer themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e351	At the end of the day: I feel that this is exactly what the Council of State says – that he knows better than the students who are just taking the lead in student democracy and elections is putting aside the recordings that they nationally make. But I'm not going to take that discussion further. I thought I would ask about this with the social mission and regional presence, which has historically been part of the foundation for the development of higher education in Norway. Then I simply wonder whether the Council of State is denying the position of the colleges historically, or whether the government parties support the Senter party in that this should be better anchored in the law, as we propose today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e358	I just have to be allowed to add a comment to this with that we know better. In that case, the bulk of the population believes that we also know better than the principals of two sensors. It is assumed that the political environment disagrees with a sector on some issues. That's a little bit of the way the discussion is. So to the issue of regional anchoring, because it's a very important part of the mission of the institutions. It is quite clear that it is part of our governance dialogue, and it is part of the development agreements. The question is, does it need to be very clear in the law itself? I believe to be absolutely honest that the representative's party has been very often occupied, has been – at least in some places – study structure, campuses, etc. It has been stated in management messages that it is up to the institutions to organise it that way. So I just mean that we're not now going to make a law that establishes a lot of things that are a fact, and that we follow up in the governance dialogue, but that doesn't necessarily have to be in the law, which we're trying to clean up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e366	Yes, the management dialogue is interesting. If you had a clear piece of legislation, you might be able to save too much of what you go in and control the details. The government itself is out in the University newspaper and declares that he is at the head of less detail management and refers to the management message. But in that very message we see that there is a broad cross-political consensus that one should rule more generally. Today, there is an unquestionable consensus on the autonomy of the sector. The predecessor of Asheim launched a drum with climate and environmental objectives with reporting requirements. Even he launches a new superdirectorate, although his own department has the overall responsibility. Does the Council acknowledge that the government, with its staggering management, has been too busy with details and has taken the reporting to new heights?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e373	It's a trick to answer these questions, which are a little bit charged, you might say. But to take them: first, I think it's very important that we have overall management of the sector, and that we don't have too much detail control. That's why I've said that the climate barometers, there were probably 90 different things to report on, are something we're now going to lose because the sector has asked for it to happen – it's typical to rule in the small. Then we can also control things more clearly. The so-called super-directorate is a clean-up of the directorate structure, which the sector itself has called for. I am very aware that the sector is also concerned that the Directorates are getting too much power. We're going to make sure that it doesn't happen, but now they've had to deal with two different directorates with slightly similar problems, which have gone a little bit into each other's legs. So this has been responding to something the sector itself has asked for, namely a clearer cleanup. So there are two slightly different debates, but I understand the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e380	The SV believes that the free principle should and should be established and must cover all students studying in Norway. More internationalisation and diversity are good. It's good for the quality of higher education, and that's good for research. Nevertheless, the party of the Council of State wants to introduce school money for students from outside the EU and the EEA. This the Council of States must explain to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e385	Here's two roles. It is quite right that I am a representative of a party that has in its party programme that they want to introduce school fees for foreign students from outside the EEA. So I'm a member of a government that's determined that we're not going to do that. I am the Council of State for this government – at least it is because of what I am standing on this pulpit now – and we have no plans about it. It was also the same three parties that are now in government, as in the Bondevik II period legalized the free principle. Then, of course, there is a discussion about the free principle, which is very important, and which is statutory, and which I also feel that the representative's party is very concerned that we should take care of. If there is a conflict with school money for foreign students from third countries — which Norwegian students pay in very many of the same countries — is a political discussion that certainly comes up in the election campaign. But this government's policy and that reflected in the proposals we have made – but also in this law – are quite clear that the free principle is firm.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e392	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e399	First, I would like to thank the case rapporteur for his good work and for the fact that a joint committee wants the vocational schools to provide a solidly higher vocational education and an equivalent professional alternative to university and higher education. It's important, and it's well settled. It is essential to give vocational education an important role in lifelong learning and to ensure close cooperation between the vocational schools and the social partners. The Labour Party welcomes the proposed changes to the Law on Higher Vocational Training and believes that this will help to increase the quality and legitimacy of higher vocational education and to develop shorter courses tailored to the needs of the labour market. The Labour Party considers, however, that there is a need for clarification in the law regarding the provision of shorter education below 30 study points. The legislative proposal does not specify that the short courses must be within the same discipline as the longer courses. The working party is concerned that this needs to be clarified in order to ensure the quality of education and training environments in the various vocational schools. The Workers' Party would stress that specialised schools to offer such short courses must have at least one 60-point vocational education or more within the same subject area. This is an important clarification which will ensure that it will not be possible for a specialised school to offer shorter vocational school courses outside a subject area where they offer longer vocational school education and, furthermore, it will ensure that the shorter vocational school education will maintain the same quality as the longer vocational school education around it. Finally, I would like to stress that it is important to maintain high quality in all vocational education and that higher vocational education is given its rightful place in the education system. We must have a clear commitment to higher vocational education in the years ahead. This is necessary in order to ensure lifelong learning, to increase the competence of individual skilled workers and, in particular, to cover up the skills that the labour market needs in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e410	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e427	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e434	As the rapporteur, I will be allowed to start by thanking the Committee for a good cooperation on a position where there is a broad consensus on the intentions and also on many of the proposals. The proposals contained in the proposal relate mainly to two areas. The first is the regulation of the processing of personal data in kindergarten and primary education, and the second is the regulation of training as distance learning. With regard to the processing of personal data, the Committee agrees on the need for a clear legal basis for the processing of personal data in kindergarten and school, as was also the case with the Committee during the previous period of ageing, the Government asked to come back to it by means of two request decisions. Children are often less aware of their rights to the processing of personal data. Therefore, it is also important to provide specific protection to children’s personal data. In addition, the Centre Party, the Workers' Party and the SV believe that it is important that the children are informed and do not feel that confidential information about them is shared with others without being informed or able to comment on it. Distance learning offers opportunities, but it also presents some challenges. The willingness of the entire Committee to clarify the rules on distance learning is present. However, the majority believe that when proposals for new training laws are sent to the hearing later, it is unfortunate if distance learning issues are now to be decided on at a separate stage. That question naturally relates to the proposal for a new training law. A new and comprehensive set of rules must be able to last over time, and the rules should also be subject to a comprehensive treatment, where different rules are seen in the context. It's also natural all the time we're now in the middle of a pandemic, which is likely to give us some experience on the use of distance learning that is useful to include in a broader treatment. It is then too early to decide on this legislation now. To this end, a majority of the Committee proposes that the regulation of distance learning should be postponed to the overall revision of the Training Act. I refer to the comments in the setting with a detailed justification from the individual batches. With that, I would like to address the suggestions that the Central Party and several parties are behind in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e447	The representative Marit Arnstad then addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e452	I would first like to refer to the rapporteur's statement and say that during the committee reading we have a really quite broad view of most of the vote. But when I take the floor now, it's because I want to lift it with distance learning. It is a little strange to note that, on the one hand, it is to facilitate distance learning, but not to encroach on practices that already work in many areas of society today, in the school community. We have, through the work that has been done in connection with the new training law, been given a significant legal basis for new adjustments, and through the proposal from the government we have received a good legal framework that would enable us in Stortinget today to provide a better framework for the law of exactly what is promised by the case-rapporteur. Today it is very unclear. It's a long way off a little untidy, I'd say, since it's not hit in a good way, and I think it's unfortunate that you have to wait to secure an envelope that would obviously be a good one, and that could be finely adjusted, if that were necessary, when you got the training law for treatment. It's not that the proposal contained in the proposition is related to what we've experienced in the pandemic. Then we talk about the students sitting at home and receiving education in otherwise immature conditions, which are undoubtedly demanding, and which we have done all we can to counteract through extra efforts. What we're talking about here are students who are at school, but who for different reasons, for example. by being in a small school in the districts — which I thought the rapporteur’s party was particularly concerned about — can gain greater access to an education offer by using distance learning. We already know today that it is done in the Sami language, which is obviously necessary to gain access at all to the necessary point competence, whether it is lulesamic or southern Sami or others. This could well have been expanded to make it even easier for these students to get an offer at school. But it says, among other things. Center party no more. I think that's very surprising. It is completely opposite to the signals I received earlier from the party, and therefore I have only to note with disappointment that there is no majority in order to get this particular provision into the bill. The students, especially in the districts, will tap on it. I take up the suggestions on the right-hand side of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e463	The representative of Kent Gudmundsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e468	Under the Law of the People's Register, boarding schools carrying out tasks on behalf of the public have the right to obtain non-tariff information from the public register. Free schools, on the other hand, do not have access to information on confidentiality-related matters. The Law on Free Schooling does not provide the necessary permission for colleges to obtain information on who are the parents of the school's students and on the fact that in line with public schools, schools are required to keep in touch with parents. The Progress Party is concerned that the colleges should have the necessary tools to ensure the essential cooperation between school and home, and considers that it is necessary to investigate how schools should be able to obtain information from the public register in line with public schools. The Party notes that the Ministry intends to submit an overall proposal for a new training law at the hearing later this year, but that they wish to seek treatment of distance learning at a separate stage, so that new provisions of the Training Act and the Law on Free Schooling may apply from the autumn of 2021. The current training law currently regulates only a few cases where training can be carried out as distance learning, while the proposal now leaves the assessment to municipal discretion, which will significantly extend access to distance learning. We are now in the middle of a pandemic, and the home schooling that students have and have had can provide good experience, including in distance learning. It's too early to make these changes now. The Progress Party therefore considers that a comprehensive assessment of the treatment of new training laws would be better. The Progress Party will demonstrate that both the Federation of Education and the Children’s Ombudsman believe that the proposal for a law on distance learning contains too many unanswered issues and several unintended consequences that need to be highlighted more fully before any legislative change. The Progress Party will therefore not support the Government's proposal for extended rights for distance learning in this context. We think it's natural to treat this in a context, especially since we're in the middle of a pandemic. However, the party will stress that we as a party are strongly involved in non-discrimination between public schools and in health schools. The Progress Party therefore submits an alternative legislative proposal, which establishes equal treatment of distance education for public schools and health schools. Thus, the principle of non-discrimination is locked before new training laws come, and this provides schools with safe and predictable framework conditions. On the other hand, any extension of the legislation on distance learning will come back when we get a new training law. With that, I would like to raise the proposal of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e483	The representative Roy Steffensen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e488	We in the SV are concerned that the changes in the rules on distance learning do not take into account the context in which the provision is to be included, which may lead to a weakening of students’ rights. Today’s Training Act only regulates a few cases where training can be carried out as distance learning, while the bill leaves to the municipality’s discretion to choose distance learning. This means, therefore, a significant extension of access to distance learning in comparison with current legislation and entails extensive powers for municipalities and county councils to make use of it. The risk of greater emphasis being placed on economic considerations than on pedagogical considerations is evident. Among other things, it is argued that distance learning is an important solution to meet the challenge of lack of qualified teachers. This could give incentives to municipalities and county councils not to do their utmost to employ qualified teachers or to allocate financial resources to qualify those who have not accepted teaching skills. The experience from home schooling during the coronary apathy is very mixed, among other things. as regards the ability of teachers to follow-up students, the impact on the learning environment and the care of particularly vulnerable students. Home schooling for the vast majority of pupils is less effective than training in a social community between teachers and pupils. At least I'm not in doubt about that. The parental committee for initial training was commissioned to carry out a study at the beginning of the coronary apathy, which showed that distance learning posed significant challenges in the contact between the parents of the students and the schools. The Educational Association, in its consultation response to the Committee, states that the experience of distance learning in the pandemic is that more time is required for individual follow-up than in normal training to achieve good results. That is why SV believes it is important not to rush into introducing new rules on distance learning. There are a number of issues that need to be addressed, and there is a need to go thoroughly through the knowledge that has been developed and that will come from the experience that we are now making under the pandemic.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e501	I only have a brief comment on the representative Gudmundsen, who had difficulty understanding why the government parties are in a minority on matters of distance learning. After all, the case rapporteur presented the reasons well, but in order to clarify the position of the Workers' Party on this issue, it is that we believe that distance learning should be dealt with together with the whole of the Training Act, also because the pandemic has just given us important knowledge of the negative consequences of distance learning over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e506	We are dealing with proposals for amendments to the Kindergarten Act, the Training Act and the Law on Free Schooling. It is about the regulation and processing of personal data in kindergartens and in primary education, and it is about the implementation of primary and secondary education as distance learning. It is important that the personal information of the child is well protected. Therefore, the proposals that lie here are very important, and it is important that we get a good framework for the use of distance learning. We therefore think it is unfortunate that a majority today wants to postpone this. The Government proposes a general opening for distance learning under certain conditions. The legislative proposal regulates to what extent, under what conditions and in what normal situation – and I stress the ‘normal situation’ – it will be possible to use distance education in public primary schools, in secondary schools and in schools approved under the Law on Secondary Education. It is important that clear requirements are made for the use of distance learning. There must be good reasons, it must be safe and pedagogical and it must be a condition for teachers and students to communicate effectively. The left is behind the government's proposal and regrets that this is now being postponed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e516	In the school sector, personal data of many children, young people and adults are processed over a long period of time, as a result of a large amount of personal data being stored in school. This may present data protection challenges, and we need to be more aware of which data to store, how to use them, and not least who should have access to them. The public school sector is organised to a large extent to generate personal data. At startup, the school can retrieve information about the child from the population register, and this is the starting point for the information stored about the student. This will be everything from work and efforts done by the student at school to professional assessments and feedback to and from the student. The availability of correct information at the student's entrance to school is important, because when the student is first at school, long-term cooperation between school and home begins. In order to do this properly, we need to ensure that post-secondary schools also have access to information as far as is necessary in order to carry out the tasks under the law. We need to ensure a level playing field between public schools and fresh schools in this area. Under the Law of the People's Register, free schools carry out tasks on behalf of the public right to obtain non-tariff information from the public register. Free schools, on the other hand, do not have access to information on confidentiality-related matters. This has been a disadvantage to colleges in relation to public schools. The Law on Free Schooling does not provide the necessary permission for the schools to obtain information on who are the parents of school students, even if in line with public schools, schools are required to maintain good contact with parents. The Christian People's Party is concerned that colleges should have good working conditions, not because we want the most choice to be open school, but we are concerned about the children and the parents' freedom of choice relating to school choices. If this choice is to be real, we must ensure that colleges have the best possible opportunity to ensure the important cooperation between school and home. We are therefore very pleased that the majority today are gathering that it is now necessary to investigate how health schools should be able to obtain information from the public register in line with public schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e529	Today, the Storting deals with proposals for changes to the Education Act, the Law on Free Schools and the Kinderhagen Act. The proposals concern the processing of personal data and distance learning. Good regulation is important for the privacy rights of children and young people. It is a vulnerable group, which is why they must have an extra good protection. It requires greater clarity and an accessible regulatory framework. I have stressed in the proposals that children, young people and their parents have the right to know which personal data can be processed and for what purposes. I am pleased that the Data Protection Authority has expressed the view that the bill is an important step towards better privacy in kindergarten and school. The proposals also need to be seen in the context of the actions of the Digitalisation Action Plan in initial training, which was presented in December. The Government proposes a general rule that those who run kindergartens or schools may process personal data as far as is necessary to carry out tasks under these laws. We also propose regulating the sharing of personal data between kindergartens, between kindergartens and schools and between schools. The rules on the collection, processing and sharing of personal data by the Education Directorate from the sector for use in research, analysis and statistics are clarified. We also propose to regulate the National Certificate Database, which is a digital tool for admission to higher education and to easily find our diploma from higher education, in-schools and colleges, as well as other evidence of competence. These proposals were widely supported by the Hearing Officers and I am pleased that the Committee has given its overall support to them. I have also proposed new rules on distance learning, so that, in a normal situation, schools can use distance learning if there are good reasons for doing so, if it is safe and educationally sound and the teacher and students can communicate effectively. Today there are unclear rules on distance learning, and I believe the time has come to put in place a more up-to-date legislation. An opportunity to conduct some of the training such as distance learning may include: give students greater freedom of choice and better adapted training. I therefore believe that there should be some distance learning when it is for the benefit of students, but with clear frameworks, so that there is good and safe training. I would like to express my disappointment that we are not having an up-to-date regulation of distance learning now. It's a shame that the equipment and competence that schools now have will not benefit students even after the pandemic, as our proposal made it possible. Another important point of our proposal was to establish equal rules on distance education for schools and public schools. Free schools are currently subject to out-of-date legislation where it is almost a total ban on distance learning. I am therefore pleased that there is at least a majority in favour of a proposal which makes it the same as in public schools in the first instance. Finally, I propose a minor change to the Training Act to make it clear that those who took the opportunity to take up pre-school education in 2020-2021 and 2021-2022, in line with the temporary rules, are not considered to have exercised the right to training in the school year in question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e550	Just too quickly to clarify, as I did not say it in my post, but it says as a remark in the vote: the government parties are going to vote subsidiaryly for the proposals of the Progress Party. We hope it will be taken care of at the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e555	It is duly noted. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e574	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e581	We are now considering proposals from the Ministry of Justice and Defence to extend the duration of the infectious diseases Act § 4-3, second and third paragraphs. It is about where and how people entering Norway are going to carry out the quarantine in order to prevent the spread of covid-19, i.e. the provisions related to quarantine hotels. The provisional amendment expires on 1 July 2021. The Ministry proposes to extend it until 10 November 2021. The Committee has decided to extend it until 1 December 2021, in line with the other matters under consideration, concerning the extension of provisional provisions. The Committee has carried out written consultations on the matter and records that no input has been received. Entry quarantine is a central instrument against the spread of infection. Following a growing trend in infection in Norway in the autumn of 2020, stricter requirements were laid down as to where persons in the quarantine period are to be present. This was based on advice from health authorities. The Quarantine Hotel Scheme was introduced by Royal Resolution of 6 November 2020. There is a joint committee behind the vote. There is still considerable uncertainty about the development of the pandemic, both in Norway and beyond. Norway has consistently been among the most stringent entry rules in Europe, yet import infection has been a challenge. Since 12 March 2020, Norway has been entitled to entry quarantine, but, as the Corona Commission pointed out in its report, it has been in favour of trust-based. As of 9 November 2020, we have therefore been required to stay at quarantine hotels when entering Norway. The Government Parties at the time considered that it was a necessary step and also support the temporary continuation of this possibility. And then there's a point to figure out that that's just that: one possibility. The disease situation is changing rapidly, and it will also affect the need to use quarantine hotels. Norway is well in the process of vaccination, and a high number of vaccines will be introduced in the coming weeks. This is good news. Vaccination is our most important measure in the fight against the pandemic. But we must nevertheless be prepared for the situation to change. The pandemic has been very unpredictable since the beginning. It would therefore be wise to continue the possibility of the use of quarantine hotels on entry.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e594	Entry quarantine is a central instrument for the spread of infection. The centre party supports the continuation of temporary changes to the infectious disease law on the place of residence during the admission quarantine. Quarantine hotels have led to major discussions and are, of course, an intervention. It's controversial, and it's discussed. But the things that are being done for the Storting are not about it, but about the privacy to be able to introduce it. Professor Hans Petter Graver has said that this is changing the relationship between Stortinget and the government in a crisis situation, because the infectious disease law § 7-12 refers to the democratic safety valve in the emergency law § 3, third paragraph, which reads: ‘If the provisions have not been repealed within 30 days of their notification, they shall be submitted as legislative proposals as soon as possible.’ Therefore, the Centre Party together with SV will present the following suggestions in the setting: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote the covid-19 regulation on quarantine hotels as a legislative proposal, in order to enable the Stortinge to take a decision on these provisions in line with the requirements of the Code on Disease Protection and the Emergency Act.’ Otherwise the center party will support the proposal in the proposition. With this I have mentioned the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e615	The representative Kjersti Toppe then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e620	This law, which gives the government great powers in the case of quarantine hotels, has been exempted for a long time. The majority has not dealt with the law, the government has only been authorised to make regulations on quarantine hotels. The government has had time to promote the regulation as a bill for the Storting, but the government has not. That is a democratic problem. The Korona Commission presented its report with clear criticism of the democratic anchoring of disease protection measures and a recommendation to revise the IPD, inter alia. with a view to distinguishing between longer-term measures, such as quarantine hotels, and clear urgent measures. SV is for the government to have powers of emergency action. They have SV's support, but that is not an argument that they cannot send the case back to the Stortinget for treatment under the Constitution. Democracy must also exist in times of crisis. It states that measures which have not been repealed after 30 days are to be submitted as legislative proposals as soon as possible. This bill is not a law on this matter. It's a law to give the government even more power without the elected representatives being able to look at the matter of quarantine hotels. SV proposes – once again – that we follow the infectious diseases law as intended, and the Constitution, and that the provisions on quarantine hotels should be promoted as legislative proposals on the Stortinget. SV is to postpone the repeal of the law until December 1st, because the new Storting needs some time to deal with the law if we need quarantine hotels after the summer. SV must support this law, but hopes that the government will finally send the regulations as a bill to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e631	I am pleased that a joint committee proposes to extend the regulatory helmet in the infectious diseases Act § 4-3, second and third paragraphs. It allows the government to have rules on quarantine hotels and prior approval of accommodation offered by employers even after 1 July, if necessary. These are measures that are very important for limiting the import rate. The emergence of new infectious virus variants shows the importance of continuing with it. In quarantine at home, it is difficult to keep sufficient distance from other people in the same household, who can also pass the infection on to society. Quarantine hotels therefore protect both people in the same household and the general population from covid-19. The rules on prior approval of accommodation for workers and contractors help to ensure and verify that they have a place of stay that is suitable for the protection of infectious diseases. This, too, protects society from import infection. The Government is assessing this legislation on an ongoing basis. Therefore, we are now making changes to the obligation to stay at a quarantine hotel in relation to the infective situation in which the traveller has been present. Derogations are also made for those coming from low-pressure European regions. A minority in the committee believe that the government should promote the covid-19 regulation on quarantine hotels as a bill. I disagree with that, and I am pleased that the majority of the committee, like the majority of the majority of the majority in February, is considering it in the same way. Since their introduction in November 2020, the rules on quarantine hotels have been amended on several occasions in line with the experience gained and the development of the disease situation. Recently, we carried out activities such as: changes resulting from the situation in India and Pakistan, when it became necessary to immediately introduce more stringent quarantine rules for travellers from those areas. In my view, this shows that it has been important and correct that the detailed rules are laid down by the government in a regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e648	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e653	Now this is about an extension of a permit, and the Workers' Party is behind that recommendation. But since it's a case to come, I'm thinking of a line on quarantine hotels for full vaccinations, and if the Council of State has the opportunity to give a status in that respect. We have now seen several examples of health professionals who have been stuck in quarantine hotels, including a midwife, who did so according to a practice in Sweden. Many people feel that there is now an urgent need for clarification.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e658	I like the question. Many people are wondering about this, and I saw this at the latest today that the evening post said we had to get this in place. It is very easy to agree that full vaccinations are not going to a quarantine hotel. We all mean that. Our challenge is to find a verifiable solution, because we have to have solutions that won't let people fool themselves away. We had a lot of trust-based solutions last year. Unfortunately, we learned that didn't work out. Some are going to use what they have of energy to trick themselves away. Then we just have to have systems for that. We don't have that in place, but the Minister of Health and Health is working on, a QR code that allows us to connect your vaccine to you, and we're not going to have any doubts about it, and then drop out of a hotel. And then we have a debate going on about temporary solutions. This is very difficult, but I can promise that we're working on it. We don't want the vaccine to be in a hotel. It is simply about control systems.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e667	It's really nice that you're working on it, and there's a broad consensus that we just have to solve this. What would have been nice was if the Council could try to estimate something in time about how fast you can get a temporary solution in place. There's also a question of proportionality here. We have supported the government in tightening up the trust-based solutions, because this led to a lack of control, and we got more import infection than anyone wanted – we did not want that at all. But for those who are fully vaccinated, can you say something about the proportionality for them of sitting at a quarantine hotel against the risk of someone cheating? Because it must be a proportionality there to those who are placed at quarantine hotels, when everyone agrees that they should not.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e675	One is a question of law and the other of practicality. For legal purposes, it is not legally sustainable to keep the vaccine at the hotel after three weeks of protection. That's the full agreement. But to do this, we need a practical solution that makes people unable to cheat. It's a speculation of how eager people are to let go of hotels. To put it that way, if you're based on the mailbox, I guess, to both the Health Minister and me, people are very busy getting out of hotels. I understand that very well – I have no problem with it. But we can't have a situation where we allow solutions that are easy to cheat with. People go home, people bring with them infection. We have seen how it has evolved during the winter holidays, holidays and winter holidays. The infection comes from outside, and it is brought home. People live differently and interpret the rules differently. But we are discussing this now all the time – I can promise the representative every day – and we will come up with a solution as soon as we have it and can stress that it is good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e680	The coronary apathy has been difficult for everyone. It has been even more difficult for those who love each other and cannot meet each other — those who live in other countries. I'm so lucky my husband, Sebastian, moved to Norway a few years before the pandemic hit Norway. He lived in London, I lived here, at Kolbotn, and we traveled a lot – not so good for the climate, but we met. I have received many important e-mails and phone calls about grandparents and couples who have not met those they love. I thought that girlfriends and grandparents were in step two, but it has been exposed. Many of them long to meet those they love. When can lovers and grandparents come to the country to meet those they love?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e685	If anyone wonders about it, I have great sympathy and love for grandparents and loving couples – just so it's said. But we have a situation where we had to do a lot of hard work because of the wave of infection that came. We recommend no one to travel. That's our starting point. The exceptions we have made are those that we believe have been absolutely necessary, also legally necessary. So we said in step two we were going to evaluate further family relationship, sweetheart relationship. We've done that, we've been evaluated, and the health assessment is that we're not now, yet, opening up to it. I know that it was received as bad news for many yesterday. I understand. What we have promised is to make a new assessment now in step three, and then we hope that we can open up for this. Girls are difficult because it must be completely trust-based, and we are still facing the import dispute. But we're going to do this assessment in step three and hope we can open up then.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e692	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e711	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e718	The outbreak of covid-19 has led Norway to a crisis situation that the current legislation does not fully take into account. It has therefore been necessary to make adjustments and derogations from existing legislation as a result of the outbreak of covid-19. One of those adaptations concerns provisions on quarantine and isolation. This proposition is an extension of the treatment of Prop. 130 L for 2019-2020, where the Government submitted proposals for temporary changes to the IPD until 1 July 2021. These are the same changes that the government is now proposing to amend to 1 January 2022. The Committee has, for practical reasons, set the date of 1 December 2021 on the same date as the other covid matters which have been under consideration in the Committee. Quarantine and isolation have been important measures to prevent the spread of infection. The Committee supports the Ministry's assessment that these are some of the measures that will be needed over a longer period of time, even if society is normalised. There is also an overall committee behind the vote. The minority have their own proposals, which they will explain. The pandemic affects us all, and where the infection is high, the measures are strict. It has particularly affected my own city, which has now lived by strict measures over a long period of time. Now it's finally opened up carefully, and there's a lot of people who've enjoyed it, but even though it's now opening up, the situation is still very unpredictable. We also see that there is infection in places that over a long time have had low or no infection. It is therefore important to keep the pressure on infection tracking, quarantine and isolation. These are measures that we must accept to live with for a while, even when we go towards a more normal everyday life. Fortunately, more and more have been vaccinated and, in the future, it is being vaccinated at a high rate. That's good, because vaccine is, after all, the most important measure we have in the fight against the pandemic.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e729	Quarantine and isolation are and have been very important measures to prevent infection. Proposals are now being made to extend the regulatory secret of isolation and restrictions on freedom of movement. The centre party supports the continuation and termination of temporary homes on 1 December of this year. We would like to highlight what the Children's, Youth and Family Directorate has to say about the fact that children and young people who end up in infectious quarantine or isolation due to disease must be able to meet their needs for care, i.e. to be able to care for their children or other caregivers, even if it poses a risk of infection, and that municipalities are able to address families where there are concerns for children and young people who are in quarantine or isolation. I would also like to refer to the Association of Lawyers, which in my hearing indicates that the law is necessary, but that the legal text does not contain any limitation as to what the isolation and other measures may be or how long the measures may be. In the case of the Centre Party, there is a provision for support to the Proposition that the Home Party is practised in such a way that it becomes clear that the Action is no more intrusive than necessary and that it does not last longer than necessary. No such measure can be imposed without a medical evaluation leading to the action being an effective means of preventing the spread of disease, and it is important, as the Department also writes, that it is not appropriate to use coercive measures to carry out quarantine or isolation. The centre party makes proposals to ask the government to make destinations for isolation and quarantine as a bill for the Stortinget. It is because the destinations of quarantine and isolation are intrusive, and it is natural that this will be done as a matter for the Storting. The government has run out of time to do this, but has chosen to ask for its home directory to continue only. The centre party supports the powers of the government under the infectious diseases law, so that the government can act quickly as necessary in the event of a crisis, but there is no excuse that very interventional measures can be sent back to the Stortingen for normal treatment under the Constitution. With that, I'll take up the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e742	The representative Kjersti Toppe then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e747	It is in crisis situations that democracy stands to its test. Crisiss often require rapid decisions, while it is important, in the event of crises, that citizens of the country rely on democratic leadership and therefore follow the recommendations made. On the SV side, we have argued that the professional basis and recommendations that underpin the government’s decisions become known, not only in retrospect, but before decisions are taken. It is necessary for the government to have powers in situations such as the coronary apathy, precisely in order to be able to act quickly and to ensure public health when infectious diseases threaten, as the government has also done in several rounds during the pandemic, with great political outreach. SV supports this. However, there is no argument that very interventional measures cannot be sent afterwards to the Survey for normal treatment under the Constitution. Democracy must also exist in times of crisis. The government has given priority to creating a law to privatise healthcare in municipalities with the law on free choice of treatment. They have sent many other laws that are not about Korona to the Stortinget. So the government has had the resources to make and send bills to the Stortinge under the pandemic. Why not this law? From the point of view of the SV, it is not good that the government has chosen not to comply with the Basic Law and the Infectious Disease Protection Act as it is supposed to be dealt with on the Stortinget – not just a government authority. Together with the Centre Party, SV is promoting this proposal, as Toppe said. So SV supports this proposal, and we support that the government has wide powers, but believes for democracy that all these laws should be promoted on the Stortinget – not just regulations that the government now receives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e766	The government's objective is that the spread of infection should be under control at all times, so that the burden of the disease is low and the number of patients is manageable in the healthcare services. The flare-up of the infection must be shut down. The basic protection measures in our management of the pandemic are keeping your distance, washing your hands and staying at home when we're sick. In addition, we need to test and isolate the infected, track down from whom and to whom the infection has been transmitted, and put people who have been in close contact with an infected, quarantined, so-called infectious quarantine. This bill will continue to provide the provisional basis for the regulatory requirements for isolation and the quarantine of covid-19. These measures are currently regulated in the covid-19 regulation and have sometimes been adjusted in the light of new knowledge. The use of infectious quarantine is essential for the control of covid-19, especially because infected people without symptoms can infect others without knowing for themselves. It is therefore essential that the measures can be continued and that there is a clear legal basis. In addition, the legal framework provides the necessary flexibility to adapt the measures in line with the situation of infection and new knowledge. This is consistent with the system of the IPD, which provides powers for the necessary measures for the protection of infection. When using the powers and laying down the rules for the regulation, the essential requirements for infectious diseases protection measures set out in Sections 1 to 5 need to be assessed in concrete terms. There must be a medical justification, the measure must be necessary for the protection of the infection and must be appropriate after an overall assessment. This provision thus requires a proportionality assessment of measures, as provided for in order to be able to intervene under the Basic Law and human rights. The Covid-19 Regulation imposes an obligation to be in the quarantine and isolation when clear conditions are met. Administrative resources are therefore not used to adopt individual decisions. The population has concluded up on the measures in a good way. I therefore believe that we should also regulate isolation and infectious quarantine in this way in the future, but hope that we do not need these measures for a very long time. I would like to stress that there will be no access to coercion when implementing measures with respect to the provision. This provision continues to propose penalties in the same way as the rest of the infectious disease law, with the same level of penalties as under current regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e781	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e798	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e805	In this case, we are dealing with two representative proposals together. Both proposals have been promoted by the Central Party. One is about training and getting enough health professionals, and the other is about recruiting community psychologists. Minister of Health and Health Bent Höie has expressed his opinion on the proposals in letters to the Committee of 30 April and 5 May 2021 respectively. The Committee received four written submissions on the proposals. The Committee agrees that competent personnel form the groundwork of health and care services and are essential for municipalities to provide good and safe services to the population. According to the SSB projections, Norway will be able to lack about 18 000 health professionals’ annual work and 28 000 nurse’s annual work by 2035. The Labour Party, SV and the Centre Party make some allegations about the situation outside the municipalities, and the government parties respond with facts about action plans, measures, level of competence, up-to-date figures and budget. There are a number of minority proposals in the vote, while the majority of the committee recommends that the representatives' proposals be rejected. The individual parties themselves will explain their views. The Government and the Advance Party have chosen to continue Competence Lift 2020 in a new Skill Lift, Competence Lift 2025. It is positive that the proportion of health and social education in care services has increased in recent years. It was the government parties and the Progress Party that ensured the legalisation of competence requirements in the municipalities, and it was the red-green ones that removed it. When the Right and Advance Party took up government offices in 2013, much less than half of all municipalities had access to a municipal psychologist. Today, it is almost not possible to believe how badly the municipalities were set up to handle mental health. If we had continued red-green vision in this, we would have risked a number of municipalities with too many unskilled people instead of all municipalities now linked to doctors, nurses, physiotherapists, midwives, health nurses, ergot therapists and psychologists. However, it is gratifying that those batches which have completed their qualification requirements now appear to be concerned with competence. Since 2013, there has been strong growth in the number of annual work in municipal mental health work as well as in the number of psychologists in municipalities. In the years leading up to the entry into force of the law, a grant scheme was put in place which resulted in a growing number of municipalities acquiring psychological competence in good time before the requirement came into force. The funding has now been transferred to the framework transfer of municipalities. We have received a total of 485 new psychologist positions since 2013. The red-green parties believe that when the grant scheme was terminated, there were challenges in recruiting psychologists to the municipalities. I can assure the parties that a psychologist does not care whether the salary comes from the framework or from a grant scheme. The municipalities are now required to have psychological competence. They have been financed, and then the municipalities just have to fix it, no matter what they call the money. If the municipalities are too small to handle this job, which I record is that several parties point to, they should join forces, so that they can offer good services. There has been a lot of talk about involuntary part-time, temporary jobs and small job breaks. The Progress Party is concerned with local democracy and self-government and believes that it is the responsibility of each municipality to clean up this. I think most people have found that it is a win-win situation for all parties to offer whole, regular jobs. The Progress Party believes and does the same in the municipalities as in Stortinget and tries to distinguish between who is responsible for what. The Progress Party has done a lot with the government parties to increase the educational rate of health professionals. Professional letters at work were statutoryized as a new way to work and work letters in 2018. This is a popular offer that has been reinforced several times. We have strengthened the possibility of taking health education and training, including: through the system of professional letters at work. In addition, the scheme of the commitment to Men in Health has been strengthened. The promotion party believes that the most important thing to do in order to respond to the needs of the health sector is to ensure that we train the health professionals we need. In various representative proposals, we have proposed stricter language requirements in healthcare, to change the limitation of the level regulation on the ability of educational institutions to provide vocational education and training with a protected title and on a stepping-up plan for medical, healthcare and nursing places. We need a plan that contains concrete measures for the creation of study places, measures to ensure the practical place of students, and measures that make it attractive for health workers to be in the sector. Since we are familiar with the challenges of the lack of newly educated, permanent and part-time jobs, it is our duty and the duty of the municipalities to follow this up in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e841	We have a major crew crisis in healthcare, and we have used the word crisis on many different health care disciplines. The fixed crisis is probably the one we've talked about the most. On the fasting side, ‘crisis’ may not be a concept in which the population is necessarily familiar, because those who have carried this crisis on their shoulders are the fixed doctors themselves, who have worked more and more, but now this dam is in the process of breaking. We already have an extensive lack of nurses in the country, and it is estimated that by 2035 we will lack up to 45,000 nurses and health professionals. We're facing a very serious demographic change in our society, there'll be twice as many older people in the next 20 years, and what does this really mean in practice? Well, that means today we're four per-pensioners in our country, but in 20 years it's down to 2.9. Because not only do older people get older, there will also be a lower proportion in working age. In some places, there will actually be a one-to-one relationship between employed and retired people, and there are some areas in our country that are much more affected by it. Some places have a move that almost constitutes a younger wave, while others in the country are many, many more older. This applies to areas in the Inland, to the very extreme in Finnland and to some places in the West. This situation looks very different depending on where you are in the country. The demographic challenge means that we have a significant job in training, recruiting and maintaining health professionals. The education page was the topic of the questionnaire yesterday, and what we know is that the bottleneck on the nurse's side is practice places in the community health service. With the interaction reform, we have moved large tasks from hospitals to municipalities. Nevertheless, nurse students are not exposed to the job done in the municipalities, just as much through their practice as in the hospitals, so we have to solve that bottleneck. Many qualified nursing students don't get a place in the study, so we could actually have trained a lot more, and we all need them. In addition to training these skilled health professionals, we also need to recruit them into the service and make sure that they choose to use the training they have taken, in clinical practice or out in healthcare, and that we keep them once they have started. Because there's another health problem: those who work there can't stay there, maybe because the work pressure is too big, or because they don't get a firm, full job to live on. Full-time bets are very important, and this applies to all these disciplines that work in the health care of municipalities. I did a search on finn.no in my own state and looked at what we demand of people, versus what we offer them. Well, we demand that people have a master's degree in nutrition physiology, but we offer them a 50 pst. position. We require them to be nurses, but we offer them a 50 pst. position. We demand that they be health professionals, but offer them a 19.78 pst. position. There's no connection between what we're asking for and what we're offering. It is a political responsibility, both local and national, and it is also a cross-political responsibility. For these job calls, which none of us really want to acknowledge, appear in municipalities that are run by the entire party flora, so this is a responsibility that we have to take across politics. Many good proposals have been made in these representative proposals, which deal with health professionals in the community and with psychologists, with professionals, with men in health. That's a lot of good suggestions, and I'm taking them all together.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e856	The representative Tuva Moflag then mentioned the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e861	Health professionals are one of the main inputs in healthcare. In fact, people account for about two thirds of the total resource use in healthcare. Fortunately, in the years to come, we live longer. It also means that more people will need help from the municipal health and care services. It is therefore important that we ensure that we recruit more health professionals, but not least that we also take care of the skilled people who work in the sector today. That is why I agree with the rapporteurs that there are still problems we have to deal with, but I believe that many of the initiatives that the government has taken or has already announced are well taken care of. Let me give you some examples. By means of Competence Plan 2025, a cooperation forum has been set up to deal specifically with nurses and health professionals. The commitment to competence has several measures to ensure more full time, less temporary employment and retain and recruit employees in the service. Here you have, for example. Good mentoring, which can be useful, and we already see that there are several municipalities that receive support to implement it, through just Competence Lift 2025. Policies also need to be improved. Therefore, the government has established a practical pilot scheme through Diku, which includes cooperation with both small and large municipalities. We need more flexible training provision, and that is why it is also being put into it, but not least we need to ensure that more people have the opportunity to complete higher education, and that more people also have the opportunity to take a new letter, which we ensure through the Completion Reform. More and more people report having mental health challenges, and those in need of help are getting help when they need it. One of the most important things we can do is to tackle small problems before they grow big. For this reason, low-threshold municipal services are crucial. Several municipalities and townspeople now offer rapid mental health care, there are considerably more employees in the municipal services for mental health and drug use, and there is an obligation for municipalities to have psychologists — to mention something. It's some of the things that are important to tackle small problems before they grow big. Introducing competence requirements in municipalities has also been important to ensure that those who need an offer actually get it. If we look at the evolution in the number of annual works, there are grants from 2013 to 2019 to a total of 617 psychologist positions in 384 municipalities and urban areas. There is also an increase of 485 jobs since 2013, and almost all municipalities have psychological competence in place. At the same time, this increase must continue, and I expect the municipalities, of course, to comply with the legal requirements we have set in this Chamber. At the same time, it is clear that there are some recruitment challenges that need to be addressed. I also have to say that I share the description of the Center Party that a larger trade union environment can make it easier to recruit. I am also pleased that this recognition comes from the very centre party, which has often been said on this platform on the contrary that it will not be any easier to recruit if you have a larger trade union environment in a municipality, for example. I also think that the representative Moflag pointed out well the problem description in many municipalities that a one-to-one relationship between the number of employed and retired persons will gradually be established, which also makes it necessary to look at measures to ensure that that trend is reversed. There are also a number of recruitment challenges, such as: that municipalities also do not offer full, permanent jobs. When the representative Moflag points out what we are offering, and what we are demanding, it is tempting to ask questions about who is running these municipalities that offer these 50 pst. positions. I believe that the municipalities have to take a much greater responsibility to ensure that you actually get people who work full-time, which we make sure to take care of, among other things. with Competencelift 2025, and want to ensure that more jobs are full-time and also have permanent jobs. Then I hope that we can facilitate that the municipalities do this, rather than that we have decisions from Stortinget that greatly override what the municipalities themselves should do and take hold of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e876	Competence professionals form the basis for our healthcare services. Several tasks are now being solved in the municipalities, and increased health responsibilities must be met with the corresponding increase in the recruitment of health professionals with the right skills. In 2019, Nav estimated a shortage of 4,500 nurses, 1,100 specialist nurses and 2,600 health professionals in the health care services as a whole. According to the KS employer barometer, recruitment of nurses is now particularly required. It is also well known that the fixation system is under pressure with major recruitment difficulties. From 2015 to 2019 there has been an increase of 6.2 pst. in annual work for people without health and social education who work as nursing assistants, home help and the like. This increase takes place despite bets such as Competencelift 2020. In 2019, half of these unskilled workers work in job breaks under 50 pst. This shows that the part-time problem is related to the extent of unskilled people in the service. The centre party believes that building a strong health service for the future must first and foremost strengthen the core wall and the skilled worker's layer. According to the SSB, Norway will be able to lack about 18 000 health professionals’ annual work by 2035. For health professionals, adult workers have been an important source of recruitment for a long time. The average age of newcomers is 30 years. Following the conversion of the education system to Reform 94, many adults without formal qualifications experience obstacles related to the requirement for a minimum of five years of full-time employment and varied practices in order to be able to take a letter of formal notice. Many people have a part-time job and do not get enough work practices. In this case, the Centre proposes a national programme to increase basic staffing in the health and care services. We are calling for an extension plan for decentralised nurse training. We ask that there be certain places of practice in the municipal health service, and that municipalities be obliged to participate in the training of health professionals. We believe that new nurses should be provided with mentoring and practical support. We want to make the system Professionals in employment a national offer, and we want to extend the Men in Health scheme to both women and men in the target group who receive benefits from Nav. We also want to figure out how to introduce a Y path for health professionals. From 2020, all municipalities are required to have a psychologist attached to them. Since 2009, there has been a system for recruiting psychologists to the municipalities. In 2019, there were 615 psychologists in 380 of the country's municipalities, but there are large geographical differences in recruitment. Only 8 pst. are recruited to municipalities with fewer than 5000 inhabitants, and 75 pst. Of these, they are recruited in municipalities with more than 10,000 inhabitants. With the legalization of psychological competence in the municipalities, the decision was terminated. Now major challenges are being reported in municipalities in recruiting psychologists. Half of the municipalities report challenges, and the smallest municipalities report the biggest problems. But there are political solutions here. In the proposal for a representative, we refer to a project in North Hordland to strengthen the recruitment of psychologists to just the municipalities. Psychologists are offered five-year educational settings so that psychologists can carry out a specialisation course while they are added to the municipality. The aim of this is to create a common professional environment for psychologists in cooperation with municipalities and to create more stable services. The project is based on experience from the ALIS-West project. It was as well known the precursor of the ALIS system for tyrants, as the Stortinget has now said should be – and host – a national system. When the Minister of Health in his reply to the Committee warns against giving state resources to the corresponding project for psychologists, I think it is a little forward-looking. We have to take seriously the recruitment failure that we are now seeing in the psychologist services out in the municipalities. There is little point in believing that recruitment of psychologists to municipalities is solved by lawmaking such an obligation. Here we have to build up the services, and we have to look at the good arrangements to get this done. We need to make sure that this is not just an offer in the big cities, but that we need to look at schemes that, by cooperating with the professional community, also in the smallest municipalities, as it is solved in this project. For this reason, the Central Party proposes to provide state support for the recruitment project of municipal psychologists and educational settings for psychologists in the municipalities who can contribute to a strong professional environment. There is not a single project we think should be supported. We have an example in this proposal for a representative, but it may also be other projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e895	It is two wise initiatives of the Centre Party and the representative Toppe travels. We have a crew crisis in the health sector. We need more people in whole and regular positions. Health professionals provide the basis for health care services. Education, recruitment and a policy for people to stand in the job their whole lives are essential for the people to get good services. The SSB projections show that Norway will lack about 18 000 health professionals and 28 000 nurses in 2035. We also have major problems getting enough doctors. During this government we have had two crises in the health sector: the manning crisis and the mental health crisis. It is important that people can receive low-threshold mental health care in municipalities. We also need to strengthen the specialist health service, but the majority who need help need help in the municipality. Nav provided alarming figures a few days ago: while Norway has 200,000 jobseekers, Norwegian enterprises lack 46 000 employees. A total of 5,350 nurses are missing. We have never lacked as many nurses and health professionals as we do now. It's on Solberg's watch this has happened. The Nursing Association stresses that the Stortinget and the government must seize. SV is very much in agreement with the Nursing Association. We need to make a vital investment for nurses in order to avoid dramatic consequences for patients. To me, one of the points in the Nav report was very important: the activities failed to recruit. Among enterprises that have failed to recruit labour or have had to employ someone with different competences, thrones health and social services at the top. 25 pst. got no employee, and 10 pst. persons with different competence in 2020. Of course, this is about education and training, but it is far from sufficient. Health and care services are not attractive enough as jobs. There are two essential points for the health and care sector to become a more attractive job: it does not hold to give applause to employees in the sector. They also have to earn a living. The second is that businesses need to be adequately and competently staffed. Municipalities and health enterprises spend between 1.5 and 2 billion in total. kr for nurses in the year. People must be offered full and permanent jobs. Temporary use must be reduced to an absolute minimum. We can do that if we use these billions to remand the sector. Together with the Labour Party and the Centre Party, we are promoting eleven concrete and wise proposals, which I would recommend to the right parties to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e916	I understand the representatives' proposals for action, but I believe that these are well taken care of by the government's efforts already made. Competence level 2025 is the government’s plan for recruitment, competence and professional development in the municipal health and care services and in the county dentistry service and consists of a significant portfolio of measures to be further developed during the planning period. The Government has also set up a cooperation forum with several key social partners in the follow-up to the Competence Plan 2025. Before the summer, the government will present a strategy for decentralised and flexible education at specialised schools, colleges and universities. This will also benefit nurse training and the training of health professionals. The government has allocated 100 million. SEK for flexible training provision. Health education was a priority area in the allocation. In addition, the Government has continued to allocate 20 million. SEK to a decentralised study of care staff in 2021. In the Single European Act Education for migration, the Government proposes to strengthen the responsibility of municipalities for the practical training of health and social education students and to continue the practical piloting system in the Higher Education and Competence Directorate. In addition, the Directorate for Health has to investigate the establishment of a practical office. The use of mentors for newly-trained nurses has been tested in the municipality of Trondheim as part of Job Winners. The government has strengthened the possibility of taking the training of health professionals. The key action on the implementation reform will allow more adults to complete secondary education. Professional letters at work were legalized as a new way to obtain a certificate of formal qualifications. Forty-six million. In 2020, in order to stimulate county councils to offer more adult vocational letters, further progress has been made in 2021. The increased funding for Men in Health by 20 million. NOK 26 million. kr was also continued in the State budget for 2021. Since 2010, national ageing and health competence services have been in charge of providing training for unskilled persons up to professional letters and authorizations as health professionals or certificates of competence for parts of the training they have completed. In 2019, the government and social partners set up the tripartite competence development programme scheme, which defines the training needs of the social partners and determines the nature of their funding. Industry programme for the municipal health and care sector was among the first. Due to the requirements of the Professional Qualifications Directive, it is not possible to have a Y-direction for health professionals and therefore the three-term scheme was attempted. It meant an advance rate in summer time, special arrangements in the first year of study and, if appropriate, a new summer course after that. OsloMet did not recommend continuing the three-term programme because there was a high level of absenteeism and increased resource use. The Ministry of Knowledge has requested the final report from OsloMet. Following the pilot scheme, character requirements have also been introduced in Norwegian and maths for admission to education. Health professionals over 25 years of age can today apply for admission to nurse training through real-time competence assessment. The government has done a lot to strengthen the recruitment of psychologists to the municipalities. The legal obligation to have psychological competence in municipalities is an important tool to strengthen lowthreshold provision in municipalities. There has also been an increased funding scheme for the recruitment of psychologists. The government has arranged for all municipalities to have the opportunity to receive grants for the recruitment of psychologists, and the municipalities have had time to prepare for the legal obligation. I therefore believe that there is no basis for state support for recruitment projects for municipal psychologists now. We must build on what already exists, as networks under the auspices of the regional knowledge centres for children and young people and regional centres for children and young people's mental health East and South. The Centres carry out annual collections of psychologists in the municipalities as a meeting place for exchange of experience and professional updating.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e939	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e945	This pandemic has really shown us the importance of having permanent, entire positions in hospitals and hospitals, i.e. throughout the healthcare system. We know that for the sake of quality, infectiveness, etc. What I'm asking is what the government has done under this pandemic to strengthen its full-time investment. We have always known that this is a challenge for the quality of service, but not least for recruitment, which is really the theme here. Now we've got a floodlight on how big the problems really are in the service – how many people have to work part-time, and how many have to shop guards. Has the government used this opportunity to put in place immediate action and really raise the job rate for those who work in small fractions throughout the healthcare system?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e952	What we've done is we've been raising this as one of the main themes of Competencelift 2025, because it's probably an area that's not necessarily suitable for solving with immediate action, but with very thorough work over time. That means that we have raised it as a goal in the great work that Competence Lift 2025 is. It hasn't been before. Then we have also established cooperation with the parties, both the KS, the Nursing Association, the Trade Union and others, just to work together on this. In the specialist healthcare service, this is gradually a minor problem. The challenge is beyond the municipalities. The representative was also concerned that we do not get away from the fact that we need to put this on the political agenda of each municipality, and we see that the municipalities that work systematically with this also get results.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e959	Recruitment to the local health service is a very big matter. I think that both the government council and the government party are expressing that one does not fully understand the seriousness of the crisis that is, just as a kind of devalued and did not understand the seriousness of the crisis, and that the action plan that came came came came many years too late. I'm afraid the same thing is happening now for recruitment to e.g. The psychological services, and for health professionals and nurses, where it is extremely important to bring about a change. The Council of State refers in its contribution to what has been of bets, and what is the government's bets. But is the Council of State absolutely certain that what is being done is sufficient to meet the recruitment failure in the municipal health service that we see out there?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e968	In any case, it is significantly more than what has been done in the past, and that is important, not least in the case of the example that the representative draws up: psychologists in the municipality. If we had continued the red-green policy in that area, the municipalities would have been significantly less equipped to meet the challenges they have now faced through the pandemic in terms of children and young people's mental health. We do that with the tools that the red-green parties have partly voted against. So it's also like it's doing a lot in this area. Many of the analyses underlying the challenges are analyses ordered by the government, precisely because we want to be prepared for this. But this is also an area that requires continuous work and that we are looking all the way for new tools and not least for good cooperation with both employee and employer organisations in order to succeed in the work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e975	When it comes to psychologists, it's not like the government didn't go ahead with the red-green policy. After all, it was all we who started with the premise, and a project for it, and then they were passed on and slightly changed until they were now removed in connection with the law. Then we've disagreed whether to legislate professionals, or whether to legislate what is to be offered. That's it. What is my question is: I find it incomprehensible that the Council of State is so negative to look at systems for psychologists that can stimulate cooperation and a stronger professional environment across the smallest municipalities, in cooperation with the specialist services – in exactly the same way that it has been successful when it comes to determination. They're the same people behind the initiative for both professionals. Is the Council absolutely sure that it will not support projects similar to those I am addressing?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e982	I'm in no way negative to it, and in my post I just showed you a project like that that that's up and going, that I'm very positive to. So I really hope we get to several of those kinds of projects, not least between child and youth psychiatry and against the municipal services, where a person can just gather professionals who work in the municipalities and in the specialist health service, both by sharing experiences and working together on how to make good patient paths. Sharing and having professional development are very good. That's something we're fully supporting, and something that's also going on in several places.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e987	We have a crisis in mental health protection. We have received a report proposing that we have more low-threshold services in mental health in municipalities. That is why I have tried to find out in the revised national budget whether more money has come to this. It was very difficult to see that the government has created a crisis package for mental health. Does the government have any plans to use more resources for a crisis package for mental health in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e994	If the representative has not found it in the revised national budget, he has not been very good. If you need a reading guide, I would recommend going into the government's press releases on the revised budget, because then there will be an answer to this. There you can see that there is a significant investment and follow-up of the Kjøs Committee's recommendations, both in earmarked funds for individual projects and also a large sum of money for municipalities, of 100 million. kr, just in order to establish lowthreshold services.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e999	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1018	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1025	I am the case rapporteur for two representative proposals, one on values for Norwegian healthcare, from the Center Party, and one on replacing the health company model with democratically controlled hospitals, from Red. The red proposal to scrap the health company model and remove the ISF system cannot be dealt with since it has been treated before this period, in the Innst. 205 S for 2020-2021, following a proposal from the Central Party. The majority of the Committee – the Labour Party, the Government Parties and the Advance Party – believe that a management model will reduce political responsibility for hospitals. The minority – the Centre Party and SV – believe that the Norwegian health system is a fundamental part of the welfare state and must be governed by elected representatives and that a new model will strengthen political responsibility for hospitals. The SV and the Central Party point out that with the Health Business Model, the governance process has been changed from elected to professional governance, using the model of private business. The number of directors and other managers has increased sharply, and they have gained enormous power over the development of the health service. We believe that it is a fundamental value that the development of the people's health system is governed by the people through a management model, and we are making proposals on this matter. The Committee points out that in 2019 the National Audit Office concluded that health care establishments are not well equipped to create a full-time culture and to maintain nurses, midwives and specialised nurses. The majority – the Red-Green and Advance Party – indicate that there is a significant manning challenge in the Norwegian health system and that there is a great need to address the ongoing manning crisis. We refer to the SSB's report on deficiencies in 2035 if we don't take the necessary action now. We have a lot of problems getting enough doctors. This majority believe that Norway must start to train the health professionals we need and that higher education must give priority to educational places for this group. Government parties agree that we need to provide places of study that correspond to society’s needs, and indicate that the government has provided funding for several places of study for nurses in recent years. The minority – the red-green – suggests strengthening health professionals in hospitals and reducing health bureaucracy along with control and management levels, which are replaced by local management. The majority – the government parties and the Progress Party – believe that local management is the general rule in Norwegian hospitals and does not support the proposal. The red-greens believe that neutral VAT stimulates outsourcing services in hospitals. We suggest that food supply, cleaning and IT functions should not be offered. The majority – the government parties and the Progress Party – believe that health businesses themselves should assess whether they wish to submit tenders for services. The centre party proposes a big message about health values and receives support from SV, but the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the government parties have said that they will not support this proposal. Red-green parties also promote a proposal for a national strategy to address social health inequalities. SV promotes all the proposals we are in favour of. SV will not support Red's proposal, because we believe that we should have a sample to look at it, and we cannot support a proposal where it is very clear that it is the state that has to own the hospitals. Maybe the regions, the counties or the state should own the hospitals, but we don't think we can say and adopt it on the Stortinget right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1050	The representative Nicholas Wilkinson has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1055	Then it is well to understand that the proposals of which the Workers' Party is a part, have also been promoted, through the representative Wilkinson just said. The Labour Party wants a strong public health service with the professionals in the front, a health service that takes care of us when we need it, regardless of the size of the wallet or where you live, and where we have employees who have the time to help and give good follow-up to those who need it. We disagree that a management model that can contribute to the pulverisation of political responsibility for hospitals is the right way to go in order to address the challenges facing health services. In 2035, we're going to meet a major shortage of health professionals if we don't take action. It's urgent to do something. The employees are the most important resource we have in health care. Norway must help train the health professionals we will need in the future, and it is an important political issue that we need to ensure a good solution. Another important policy issue that requires answers is to balance health inequalities. The members of the Committee of the Workers' Party, together with the Centre Party and the Socialist Left, promote a proposal asking the government to put forward a strategy to balance social health inequalities. This is in line with the wishes of both the Cancer Association and the National Association for Public Health. It is fundamentally unfair that those with long-term education and a good economy live longer and have fewer health problems. In health policy too, we must aim to reduce the increasing differences we see in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1066	I think everyone in this room shares the ambition that we should create the healthcare that is best for the patient. It is a public responsibility to ensure good health care, and patients should be guaranteed an equivalent offer across the country. The proposers call for a wholesale notification of values for Norwegian healthcare and a healthcare service that is not managed according to business-economy principles. Government parties do not agree that health services are currently characterised by business-economy principles. Nor has it been long since we dealt with the paper Values in the patient’s healthcare service – Notification of priority, where exactly values in healthcare were raised and discussed. The health service is an area of individual rights, and it is the legislator’s expression of values expressed – it is equivalent to access to health services, participation and respect for individuals. Social differences are a challenge that politicians must take seriously. No one wants a two-part healthcare service. It is a public responsibility to ensure a good and equivalent health service for all. Then I think we need to use all the good and available resources, regardless of whether they are private, non-profit or public. The most important thing is to reduce health cows and to provide patients with good treatment. Therefore, free treatment options are so important. It's one of the most important measures we have for a two-part healthcare service. It allows patients themselves to choose where they will be treated, and the state takes the bill. Proposals have also been made on the matter of introducing the government of specialist health services, where hospitals are governed by a management model. This is a question we've discussed earlier in this big period, so I don't want to spend too much time on this particular topic, but would just briefly say that such a management model as is proposed here will pulverize the political responsibility for the hospitals, which is now with the Stortinget. This is where the budgets and the governance documents are adopted, and this is where responsibility should lie. We will also consider proposals for local management in hospitals and so-called provision of services. I would like to remind you that today there is a general rule about local management in hospitals. The most important resource we have in healthcare is the people who work there, both health professionals and those in administrative positions. Our health institutions have important societal tasks that are more important than direct contact with patients. They shall be employers, they shall carry out research and education — in addition to providing high-quality healthcare. In the case of so-called insourcing of services, government parties believe that this is something health-care businesses themselves should consider their use. They are responsible for ensuring that hospitals are operated in the best possible way, and we trust that they will choose the solution that works best for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1079	It is a public responsibility to ensure good and equivalent health services for all, regardless of where you live. Then it is also important to make use of all available resources, regardless of whether they are private, non-profit or public. The corona pandemic has shown us how easily the health cows can grow again. This is why, particularly when we are back in a normal situation, it is necessary to ensure that health cows are reduced and that patients receive good treatment. Free choice of treatment is a good thing for patients and a very important measure to combat a two-part healthcare system. When the left-hand side will reverse the system of free treatment choices, they put ideology ahead of people's health. It should be obvious that everyone has the freedom to choose the treatment they want. The patient chooses, the state pays. The Progress Party believes that the organisation of hospital boundaries needs to be changed by abolishing regional health businesses and dividing the tasks between a national governance unit and individual health businesses. We believe that regional health businesses are an unnecessary intermediary and lead to disclaimer and unnecessary bureaucracy. Therefore, the Progress Party wants to allocate the tasks between the State and local health businesses and thus ensure that all patients receive good and equivalent healthcare, irrespective of their place of residence. Another important element in ensuring equivalent healthcare is to ensure that we train the health professionals we need. Last week, Nav published its annual business survey, looking at the expectations of enterprises in terms of employment trends in the coming year. The figures show that the lack of nurses has reached record heights in the last year. This year’s survey estimates a shortage of nearly 7,000 nurses. The SSB's projections show that we can lack about 36 000 health professionals' annual work and 20 000 nurses' annual work by 2035. It is a situation that needs to be taken seriously and that we politicians need to help solve the best for the patient, healthcare and the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1094	Well-being in Norway is an important part of our welfare society. The key values on which this health service should build must be considered politically. At a time when health services are driven on the basis of promises of privatisation, new legal courts, new laws and increased competition, it is important not to miss out on the objective of the service and the content of the service. The Medical Association, in its audio performance, points out that there are now several developments in the healthcare service that give rise to concern. The stipulations are under great pressure. The productivity of hospitals has declined for a long time because it is not invested enough. Doctors have a high workload and are getting less and less time for patients. The pandemic has shown that we were not well prepared and that preparedness needs to be strengthened. We lacked infectious disease protection equipment and did not have enough intensive capacity. At the same time, we know that the need for healthcare services will increase sharply over the years to come. The centre party agrees with the Lege Association on the concerns they raise, that this can undermine the health service we in Norway are so proud of. The situation shows the need for change. Health services in Norway represent more than simple patient treatment. It represents the preparedness for a crisis and that we have local hospitals capable of mobilising in the event of major accidents, that women count to the maternity ward in time, and that older people receive valuable care and care at the end of their lives. You can't ignore their social responsibility. A majority of the population think that today we have a two-part healthcare service, that help depends on your income. The Norwegian health system has traditionally been highly trusted. Now this trust may be about to slide. We see a large increase in the use of private health insurance. The centre party believes that Norwegian health services must be governed by the public authorities, but in the health services model, one went away from the principle and over to a system where hospitals are run by professional management according to a model from the private industry. The number of directors and other leaders has increased sharply and gained enormous power over the development of health at the cost of elected government. This model does not allow the Size itself to determine major changes in, for example: The hospital structure because Norwegian hospitals are operated and managed according to the business economy principle. High levels of input-driven funding mean that money follows patient treatment, and that some patients and treatments tend to be more profitable than others. Local authorities have a payment obligation if they do not accept so-called printable patients. The fact that elderly patients are transported out of hospitals in the middle of the night because hospitals have to pay money is evidence of a system and a health care system that has lost its valuable anchoring. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: The Labour Party and the Right, in a joint remark in the section, write that an administration model for the hospital will ‘pulse political responsibility’, which is currently at the forefront of accumulation and government, is wrong. The Central Party believes that the state still has hospitals. The staging shall continue to determine the hospital budget. The size shall, through a national health and hospital governance plan, ensure governance at national level. Major decisions shall be raised from the boardroom in the business meeting of the main hall and to the elected representatives. Health services cannot create health. Health services can only limit the consequences of disease and injury. It must always be more important to ensure that disease does not occur than to treat diseases when they arrive. In Norway, we have huge social health differences. The differences are increasing. Those with long education and a good economy live longer and have fewer health problems than those with shorter education and poorer economies. Social health inequalities are unfair. The centre party today proposes, together with SV, that a shopping message on Norwegian health care values should be submitted. It is wrong that we have just had such a message, as the case spokesman pointed out. It dealt with overall priorities. It's important, but that's not what we're asking for. The Central Party also proposes, together with the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party, a national strategy to mitigate social health inequalities. There has been a great deal of excitement in the listening round. We propose, together with SV, to introduce a government of specialists, where hospitals are run by a management model. The public health service is one of the welfare state’s most important concerns, and internationally the Norwegian health service is in a special position. The centre party will secure this for the future. Finally, I would like to say that the Central Party will support proposal No. 6 from Red.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1122	Increasing differences between people are also noted in public health. Red jobs for a health policy that reduces the differences. Bottomline management, centralisation and privatisation have weakened and weakened our health care. The sector was not well prepared or equipped to face a long-term crisis like a pandemic, and the business economic regime in hospitals has led to the reduction of both bed figures and other hospital preparedness. 20 years ago, the Health Business Model was introduced. At any price, hospitals were then to leave the government and be organised as enterprises according to the share law model. This liberalism was introduced by the Stoltenberg I government and was warmly embraced by the Progress Party. As John Alvheim said: «This is beyond a blueprint of FrP's policy. In general, I could have written this myself." But hospitals are not stores, and Red wants people and elected representatives to get the health care system back, which also ensures that the residents get close to the hospital offer. Around the country, we now see that people rise up against the directorial field of health companies, because they are forced to fight for their local hospital or for their maternity ward. We see it in Oslo, with the fight for Ullevål Hospital, we see it in North Moravia, with the fight for the Food Department, and we see it in the Inland, with the fight against the closure of hospitals – and all the way with the Bunadsgerilja as the symbol of the struggle for an equivalent food and health supply to the inhabitants, wherever they live. The underlying problem is the health enterprise model, which allows hospitals to be managed more according to bottom line and less according to patients’ needs. The medical association has stated that they want to complete the current health business model. The trade union says that the hospital sector needs to return to popular governance and democratic control, and Red makes a proposal today on a more democratic hospital structure. Then we remember the claims from 20 years ago that the health company model would create less bureaucracy and clear responsibilities, but the facts show that it has become the opposite. The number of high-wage administrators has exploded, and so has the number of management levels in hospitals, while employees are overworked and feel that they have little influence over their own working life. Red therefore suggests that health professionals should be strengthened in hospitals, and that we reduce health bureaucracy along with a reduction in both management and control levels, which is replaced by the only sensible thing, namely local management. Today, half of the operating resources of health businesses must be made up of so-called input-driven funding, a model drawn from the U.S. Medicare, based on a commercial and profit-driven healthcare system – the reverse of the Norwegian healthcare system. It also requires hospital staff to devote valuable time to detailed financial coding of diagnostics and procedures. Market-driven healthcare offers lead to greater inequalities and also make health services more vulnerable to commercialisation. Of the services purchased by health care providers, commercial operators account for about 40 p.p., and in recent years growth has been strongest among suppliers included in foreign groups. Red suggests that cleaning, IT functions and food supply must be part of the hospital’s core activities and not be withdrawn. It is important to avoid deterioration in quality, hygiene and safety. The model of health enterprises has shown for the most part that it has led to enhanced political disclaimer, a swollen and costly health bureaucracy and a hospital without sufficient reserve capacity. Health crowns are the property of the population, and hospitals must be subject to popular governance. Time is ripe to give back both population and elected power over health services, away from the bureaucrats in these health businesses. With that, I'll take up Red's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1139	Then the representative Björn Moxnes mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1144	The submitted proposal on the health business model is mainly clarified and concerns the strengthening of health profession in hospitals, the reduction of health bureaucracy along with control and management levels, and the absence of tendering for support functions. The proposal contains some statements and claims about the health company model and hospital policy that at least I do not know about. I also remind you that the government has taken a decision on questions relating to the further organisation of the specialist health service. It has also been discussed several times in Stortinget, and it is established. Like the proposers, I am concerned that the health professionals represent a critical competence in the country's hospital. Their competence must be safeguarded and strengthened in the service. The so-called health bureaucracy is multi-faceted and is responsible for providing a wide range of different and important functions in all areas of the specialist health service. Health enterprises have justified their extensive activities and many employees and the need to organise themselves at several management levels. As I have also explained in my reply letter, there are very many specialist health care managers who have a medical or other health background. Local management is the general rule in Norwegian hospitals. At the same time, health enterprises have been given some flexibility to design management models that are tailored to their local needs. I think it's still wise. With regard to the issue that hospitals should not be allowed to place support services on the market, I consider that health care establishments are clearly closest to making a proper and good decision on the organisation of their own activities. Value statements are central to lawmaking, the processing of laws, stockpiling messages and public investigations. Among other things, qualifiers such as access to professionally sound service, respect for individuals, participation, the good use of available resources and the promotion of health and equivalent services could be said to be key objectives for the provision of healthcare in the law. Ensuring good health and care services to all is a public responsibility. The government will ensure good cooperation with various private and non-profit actors to support this responsibility while contributing to innovation, diversity, quality and freedom of choice in the service provision. I believe that the government's policy, which involves cooperation with private actors, both non-profit and commercial, to perform tasks on behalf of the public, is an important tool to counter a two-part healthcare service. The representatives point out that a strong public health service with a strong responsibility for preparedness is a cornerstone of our welfare society, and I fully agree with that. Patients should be sure that they get the help they need when they need it. I believe that the government's policy for decentralised services, food supply and emergency medical services supports this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1164	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1169	I will make it brief: does the Council of State agree that there are worryingly large health differences in Norway? And does the Council of State think that the government is doing enough to combat those differences?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1174	I'm worried about social health differences in Norway. Therefore, the government is working very hard to do something about the causes of the social health differences, the main causes. One of the major reasons is education. Therefore, it is essential to ensure that the school is given the opportunity to give people the opportunity to complete their secondary education. It is likely that the single measure will have the greatest importance to address the social health inequalities in Norway, and that more people will have the opportunity to complete secondary education. That's why I'm often surprised that parties who say they're concerned with public health policy so little acknowledge that the school's main public health mission is to make sure that the school succeeds in the school's core task of giving children and young people an opportunity to complete secondary education.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1179	The Sick House Alliance supporting the Health Business Act consists of the Workers' Party, Right, Advance Party, Left and Christian People's Party. This setting will be fixed again. In a note, these parties say that one believes that a management model ‘will pulverize the political responsibility of hospitals, which is now with the Stortinget and the government. This is where the budgets and governance documents are adopted.’ Yes, budgets and governance documents must be adopted here, that is also the opinion of the Centre Party. There must be a clear division of responsibilities between magnification and government. Then we'll get to the hospital board. The Board of Hospitals at RHF level is currently appointed by the Council of State. The RHF appoints the board of directors of the health business. So those who sit on the boards are not responsible in that way that they can be replaced by elections, as if they were from the county. Why does this model imply liability powdering, as government parties say?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1186	It is because it is then the Council of State that is responsible for the Storting for health businesses. With the model of the Centre Party, one of us will be responsible for the people elected from the states, from different parties, in an absolutely impossible situation. The task of health region governments is to implement the policies adopted by the government and the Storting, but these are representatives who can be elected to programmes that represent a completely different policy. First of all, it puts them in a very difficult situation. Secondly, if they are to be accountable to their voters for the programme on which they are elected from the counties, the Council of State responsible has only one option, and it is always possible to replace the boards until one receives a composition of the board that is consistent with one's own policy. That's exactly what the majority here says is the powdering of responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1191	In very much of what underlies our welfare society, we have different levels of government. We have big business, state and department, and we have county and municipality. What's the whole principle is that the big lines are drawn up by the Storting, which then gives clear guidance on what should be done in the event of county councils or local councillors. This works in a good way in many areas. So it's a form of management that means that whoever's set to lead a hospital according to the model of the Center Party has to deal with the framework that a sheep from general government has in terms of functional distribution and budget. So it's within the model that one should take responsibility. How, then, can the Council of State claim that such a model for hospitals would be responsible powdering, while in other areas, such as infirmity, it is not responsible powdering?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1198	That's because there are two completely different models. Had the Center Party been in charge of its original model, I would have had some respect for it, namely to leave the hospitals to the county councils and give them responsibility for the hospitals. It's a pure model that gives a clear political responsibility for hospitals. So the Center Party has discovered that their policies in that area are both unpopular and have no particular support anymore, and then one has tried to find a hybrid model that will give the impression that a government policy will influence hospitals, but at the same time the state will be responsible. That model is a worse model, in my opinion, than a purely county model, because at least it places responsibility in the right place. We have very good experience that the model for which the Senterpartiet previously joined did not contribute to the same healthcare service in Norway. It contributed to long waiting times, helped to ensure that one did not have financial control, and helped to ensure that one did not make the necessary investments in the hospitals. So it's also left the Center Party now, but they can't leave the idea of having state politicians in. This will end with a responsible powdering hybrid model.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1205	We need to talk about the health business model. The government parties believe that this model gives political responsibility and power to the hospitals. But then I just have to show you a little bit about some of the problems we have, for example. the golden rule. The Minister of Health said they would spend more money on mental health. They never followed that up. Now we have e.g. have had IT problems. The majority and the government have said that it is very important to strengthen the IT systems so that it does not leak out personal information – but that has happened. Then I have a question: does the Minister for Health direct the health businesses, or does the health businesses direct the Minister for Health?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1210	That question is very easy to answer. It is the Minister of Health who directs health businesses. And I think that if the representative asks someone in the health care companies about it, he will get a quite unambiguous affirmative answer. The issue raised by the representative is interesting, because he points to two real challenges. But I would say that if you go in and have a discussion about governance models, starting with the fact that it is possible to find a governance model that solves all the health problems, you won't find that management model. This also raises questions about whether it is the governance model that is the challenge, or whether it is simply that you have to work all the way to solving different things, and then you have to try to find the governance model that best contributes to it. I think we have. I believe that there are always challenges with any model, but I often think that we politicians a little too easily try to use a tool that's about moving squares and laps in the system, and think it's going to solve the problems. Usually you have to work more systematically.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1219	This health business model would create less red tape and also clear responsibilities, one should believe what the Workers' Party said when they introduced the model, with the support of the Right – and not least the Advance Party. Since then, we have seen that the reform has removed popularised power over hospital policy and transferred that power to a booming and, we have to say, often, low-health professional directorship of the various corporate governance. The number of highly paid administrators has exploded, many with annual salaries miles above what Erna Solberg serves, and there has been an increase in the number of executive levels while lack of local management in many places. Does the Council agree that there has not been much less bureaucracy or clear responsibilities with the model introduced by the Workers' Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1226	No, I do not agree – on the contrary. We're doing what the Labour Party said at the time was the goal of this reform, and it's basically followed up and it's also given results. It's been shorter waiting times. Financial control has improved. As a result, more investment and renewal activities in the hospital sector have also improved. Norwegian hospitals operate very efficiently. Given how many employees work there, they have a small level of management. It's one of the challenges that trying to keep the level of management low, sometimes it becomes a pretty big leadership tension, and it's a dilemma you're always in. Not least in the discussion of local management and management near individual employees, it is a challenge in such large organisations that it often conflicts with the desire to keep the number of leaders down. And it's not possible to combine the two objectives without it becoming difficult.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1232	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1239	Well-functioning hospitals that provide security are among the most important institutions in our welfare community. The elected representatives, who can be replaced by elections, must therefore manage the hospitals. There's a very basic context here. The people elected to control the hospitals are the Stortinget. That's where the big frames are pulled up. That's where one gives the budgets. That's where a solves the function distribution and the big strategic questions. In the case of hospital level, we need to give more responsibility to the hospital administrators within these frameworks, and we also need to have local management responsible for quality, to follow the budget and for human resources policy. The hospital board must be made up of people who can be replaced by elections, because only by doing so can we ensure that the board is active and follows up on what is happening in municipalities and non-governmental organisations in the hospital area – emergency medicine, for example. This vitality is absolutely necessary, and the knowledge it gives to elected members of the public is crucial for the good functioning of hospital management and management. Today we don't have any such leadership. We don't have any such popular management of hospitals, because those who sit on hospital boards are appointed by the Council of State at RHF level. If they do not comply with the will of the State Council, they will be replaced, and those who are then taken good care of by the State Council of the Regional Health Agency’s board of directors are the ones who appoint the members of the board of the health undertaking. What we're experiencing in a number of cases is that processes that seem to be democratic have been carried out in such a way that the real decision has been made at an early stage by the Council of State, while it may be formally the board of directors or even the director of the company standing up and saying, "I've made the decision." The reality is that the real decision has been taken by the Council of State, but the Council of State is not involved – it is those out there who have to take that responsibility. There is a need for a thorough change in the model, so that we get popular government into hospitals, within the will of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1256	There is increasing excitement about those who want a different management of Norwegian hospitals. The health service model has received a lot of criticism, and in particular criticism, dissatisfaction and lack of confidence in the areas where there are difficult structural issues, such as in Health Møre and Romesdal. Now there's a rough consensus between the biggest batches to pass on the model. It's just the Labour Party and the Right that are left to defend by him. I am sure that this fragile unity will not stand forward, with all criticism of this undemocratic governance for such an important well-being. This will be confusing by itself. It must come and there will be a change. I thought it was very special to hear the Government's reply to the representative Per Olaf Lundtigen. Never have I heard a councillor speak down the Stortinget and the People's Assembly in such a way, when a court of law says that a magnificence cannot decide on the overarching of the hospital structure, that is, how we should dimension such an important welfare service, because one could vote against his own opinions or what one had opted for locally. That's the way it is in all other areas of society, but just for hospitals, this is so demanding and difficult for the populace that they have to take the decision into professional hospital administration. Then politicians and elected representatives can continue in election campaigns to say exactly what they mean, locally. One kind of policy is very dishonest, and I think it's alarming that a government council can stand and say this from the pulpit and get away with it. That's what I thought was enormously special. It's clear that in many things in Stortinget we can have different opinions locally, but we go to the elections on a party program, and sometimes in Stortinget we have to go together with other parties, and we can lose and win things. But we have to stand for what was popular. We must also be able to do that in the field of hospital policy, when it comes to so many people, and people have confidence in us in these matters. It is this democratic deficit in the health business model that emerges so well in response to the Council of State. That's what's the main thing in this model: what's difficult for politicians, we're going to hide in the health board. This has to go away.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1265	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1282	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1289	I am making contributions on behalf of the rapporteur-in-chief Hege Haukeland Liadal. Today we have a representative proposal from the Progress Party that wants young people from 16 years of age to be able to sell beer and tobacco. The Committee other than the proposers agrees that this is not compatible with the policies of the various parties, with the integration of the population or with the wishes of the trade union movement. The Committee has received several hearings on the negative case. Trade and Offices point out that this is very unfortunate for recruitment to entire permanent jobs, which is also the daily food industry, like other sectors, struggling with, and which we have discussed earlier here today. A great deal of the personnel in the trade in goods work in part-time jobs, and the Progress Party's proposal to increase the number of unskilled and several hours staff will also contribute to this. The main reason for the Committee's opposition to the proposal for a representative is that the age limit, both for drinking and for selling alcohol and tobacco, is 18 years. The Committee sees no reason to lower the threshold for the sale of these products and to assume responsibility for checking the age limit of young people who cannot consume the same types of products. So there is no support for this proposal, but I am presenting the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1302	The business community does an important job when it comes to getting young people to work. It is important that young people make friends for the joys and challenges of working life. As politicians, it's our job to make it easy for business to hire young people, and it's our job to make it attractive for young people to look for work. The proponent’s proposal to reduce youth to 16 years of age to sell tobacco and alcohol will make no change in young people’s job opportunities. The representative proposal is already a long way off. Young people under the age of 16 may sell tobacco if they are supervised by other employees over the age of 18. This rule is already very liberal, for the employee over the age of 18 does not have to be in the sales premises when the sale takes place. Young people over 16 years of age are also allowed to sell alcohol with current rules, provided that they are apprentices under training to take a professional letter in the sales profession. In other words, 16-year-olds can sell alcohol under current legislation as long as they are trained as apprentices in the retail trade. As the Right sees it, today's law fulfills the intention of the representative proposal. That is why we do not support the Progress Party in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1313	The workline is very strong with today's government. As the representative from the Right before me pointed out several times, the Right is concerned about getting young people to work, and it is positive: more in work, fewer in social security. There we have cooperated well with the government for many years, even when we were in government. Fewer people will benefit from public social benefits and more people will get out of work. There I have to say that the Right has done a good job in general, but this seems a little special in this case, because it can be seen that alcohol policy is unfortunately more important than the workline, more important than getting young people to work. Because that's especially the youth we're talking about here. It's about giving young people a handshake so they can get into the labour market. We have received several enquiries from a lot of young people between the ages of 16 and 18 who have problems getting a job in the store just because they can't sit in the register and can't do all the work. It's a challenge. That's what we think is sin, and that's why we want to deal with it. It is not a matter of these young people sitting in a safe and drinking alcohol; they just have to scan the goods. They're sitting there scanning goods, whether they're salads, bread or beer – it sucks past, and it should be very unproblematic. We think it's a little bit a shame that the majority of the population are not involved in supporting this change, which would be very beneficial to the youth. So here we see that the trade unions are being dragged in as an argument against this. The fact that the Center Party, the Workers' Party and SV use it may not be surprising: Trade and Office and permanent positions – we know well about the rhetoric there. But the option here is not fixed positions. There is no job, there is no job at all. We're talking about youth here. We're talking about school students who definitely don't want a full-time job. They need part-time jobs, and they need to get a foot within the workplace. They could do that in a better way by sitting in the cash register at Rema and Kiwi, but unfortunately they don't. Here it is also important to take the youth seriously. I think it's a little inconsistent when we know that the parties on the left-hand side, especially those far out on the left-hand side, are concerned that 16-year-olds will have voting rights. So the attitude to involve and include youth more in society is a little selective. This clearly does not apply in all areas. We in the Progress Party follow this up in several cases. In the case of 18-year-olds in the restaurant, it's the same problem. They are allowed to serve white wine to the appetizer and red wine to the steak, but they are not allowed to carry an Irish coffee from the bar to the customer in the restaurant. We think that is totally illogical. I take up our two suggestions on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1330	Then the representative Tor André Johnsen brought up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1335	I share the wish of the proposers to give young people the opportunity to try their way to work before they reach the age of 18. But as I see it, the proposal to change the age limits for people who can sell alcoholic and tobacco products will neither be desirable nor contribute worth mentioning to expand the ability of young people to get into work. Already today, tobacco legislation opens up so that they can sell tobacco products for over 16 years if a person over the age of 18 has daily supervision of the sale. This means that the supervisor must be at the point of sale during the time of opening. Thus, a change in the law proposed by the proposers will not, for all practical purposes, mean a real change in the current situation. In the case of alcohol, the person to sell alcohol weakness and alcoholic beverages in the grocery store must have reached the age of 18 years. However, the age limit does not apply to the sale of alcoholic beverages when a person over 18 years of age supervises the sale on a daily basis. The age limit of 18 years applicable to the sale of alcoholic beverages in grocery stores does not prevent the store from employing people under 18 years of age. The only requirement is that these are not involved in the actual placing on the market of the alcoholic drink. The background to this rule is that persons who have a possession of alcohol must themselves be above the age limit for the purchase of the product. In my view, this is a well-founded rule that contributes to the safe marketing and possession of goods. I would like to remind you that alcohol is not a common product, but a product that can cause damage and problems in use. On this basis, I believe that the 18-year-old limit does not present a very great practical challenge for the grocery stores, and they should also be able to hire people under 18 years of age. I would like to add that exceptions have been made to the general rule on the age limit for minor apprentices and apprentices, so that people over the age of 16 who are trained to receive a trade letter can sell alcoholic beverages during training as apprentices in the retail trade. This derogation takes account of those who are undergoing practical training with a view to learning to obtain a letter of formal qualifications.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1354	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1371	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each batch group and 3 minutes for members of the government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to three rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1380	Let me first of all thank the Committee for its constructive and good cooperation in this matter. The case is about a reinforced effort to treat bone brittleness and prevent fractures in the elderly. The Committee shares the objectives of the proposers for better treatment for osteoarthritis and for the prevention of fractures in the elderly. Between 240 000 and 300000 Nordics have osteoporosis, and studies show that women have almost twice the risk of developing the disease. It's typically Norwegian to be good. We're at the top of the world in the middle of nowhere. We're at the top of the world at handball. And unfortunately, we are also at the top of the world in the number of hip fractures – at least in relation to the size of the population. Cases are the tenth most important cause of death and the sixth most important cause of health loss in Norway. Case injuries account for almost half of the annual accident deaths, and 40 pst. Of all hospitalisations in Norway, there is a fall-back. So to party politics: In several Norwegian hospitals today, the method FLS is already used. It is a recognised and good fracture prevention method. However, the Progress Party does not support the proposal that this approach should be applied in all health establishments and that such an offer should be guaranteed funding. Prevention is a statutory task for regional health enterprises. The Progress Party disagrees with the proposers that today’s funding system prevents the prevention of falls in damage. Intervention-driven funding is only part of the funding for hospitals, and hospitals themselves are responsible for prioritising their resources. With this, I recommend the Committee's setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1397	Bone cleavage is a population disease that affects about 300,000 people in Norway. And I guess we've got everybody sitting in the hall here getting engaged e-mails from connected in the last few days. Many of those with high risk of fractures do not receive the treatment they need to strengthen the skeleton and reduce the risk of fracture. So why is it important that we make sure that they get a better follow-up? As with all other health services, it is of course important for individuals, but it is also important for society because prevention is more profitable than treatment. In the previous debates that we have had on today's roadmap, we have talked about the major demographic changes we are facing: that there are many more older people in the next 20 years, and how the composition of older people and those who work changes. That means that a lot more elderly people have to live at home; we actually need a home reform to solve the problems ahead of us. Norway is at the top of the world in the number of hip fractures. Cases contribute to both health loss and death, and 40 pst. the case of hospitalisations. We can't afford that at all. We can't afford not to prevent all of these hospitalizations. Because we know that the pressure in hospital places will only increase in the years to come. We want the elderly to live at home as far as possible – and the elderly themselves – but it has to be safe. We know that there's a hairy balance between staying at home as far as possible and staying too long. In order for older people to live safely at home, good prevention services are needed, access to technology, training, etc. We also need to follow up this group better. Then I take up the suggestions that the Workers' Party is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1410	The representative, Tuva Moflag, has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1415	Muscle and skeletal disorders are the most common cause of disability, next to mental disorders. Osteoporosis is also a major impact on women. There is simply a need for more attention to be paid to these challenges. It costs society a lot, and not least it's tough for those who get hit. It is an important theme that the proposers are raising here, and it is good that it is on the agenda. Osteoporosis is also about female health, and now that we are living longer and longer, it is also becoming an increasingly important topic. The proposers would like the establishment of coordination services for crime prevention and the financing of such offers. Today there are already several Norwegian hospitals using the method that this is talking about. It is a recognised and good fracture prevention method. Hospitals are responsible for ensuring good treatment for patients and it is not reasonable for the Storting to precisely control the methods to be used to ensure this treatment. We therefore do not agree with the proposal. Nor do we agree that today’s funding system prevents the prevention of falls. Intervention-driven funding is only part of the funding for hospitals, and hospitals themselves are responsible for prioritising their resources. Prevention may also form part of the basis for input-driven funding if the work involves patient contact.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1424	Bone cleavage is a condition that is undertreated and gets too little attention. Norway is at the tip of the world when it applies to the number of hip fractures. Cases are the tenth most important cause of death in Norway. The first year after hip fracture one of four dies. One in three ends at the hospital. Today's Medisin has now published an article from several reviewers dealing with bone brittleness. They indicate that everyone with a heart attack is being expelled from a hospital with a medicine to prevent a new infection. They're asking why not everyone with bone cleavage fractures gets preventive medicine against new fractures. Bone cleavage development can be prevented by physical activity and vitamin D in diet, smoking, etc., but this is not always enough. We know that medicine against osteoarthritis can halve the risk of fractures. So why are there so few people who get such treatment? The professional guidelines date from 2005, and they are out of date. Under 10 pst. of the patient group who should have been offered treatment. Medically driven structured follow-up of hospital fracture patients, known as FLS, has proved to be a method that can reduce new fractures, sickness, mortality and costs resulting from fractures. Professionals want to introduce this, but resources are missing. FLS was introduced by seven Norwegian hospitals in the research project NoFRACT from 2016 to 2019, with funds from the Norwegian Research Council. Unfortunately, only one of these hospitals has passed on the model today. The reason is that some hospitals do not have resources for this. Why is the government and the majority in Stortinget opposed to giving the many with osteoporosis more systematic follow-up, better treatment and structured prevention? Why are patients treated differently and under-treated with osteoporosis treated when both the personal and social costs are so high? The government itself set a null view of the crash, but one did not reach a 1 pst reduction. one minute. The goal was so little communicated that professionals had not heard of this goal being seen. The most effective and likely reasonable way to reduce the number of hip fractures would be to offer all over 50 people who break something, distribute and possibly treat for osteoporosis — so easily. Today hospitals are preventing their funding systems from operating such prevention. The revenues of orthopaedic departments go largely through input-driven funding based on the number of offences being treated. Bread that is built does not give a financial benefit to hospitals, but is considered to be a cost. Not to bet on systematic prevention and treatment of osteoporosis and osteoporotic fractures is expensive. On average, hip fractures are seized at any time on 240 sick beds, more than any other disease. Each of the 9,000 annual hip fractures costs society $1 million. kr. So there's a lot of money to save. The Government Party and the Advance Party are not interested. It's regrettable both for the patient and for society.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1445	Many people have osteoarthritis and as a consequence of this many fractures. In the 2015 public health report, the government aimed to reduce hip fractures by 10 pst. by 2018. The government did not even succeed in 1 pst. reduction. This is often the case with input-driven unit price financing: what does not have a single price does not reach its priority. Therefore, the response from professional environments often becomes a requirement for rights law enforcement, without necessarily solving any of the world's things. In Kommune-Norge, at least it is at the moment so that the sum of statutory tasks does not go along with the income side. Hip fractures are closely related to leg stiffness. As well as everyone with hip fractures has bone brittleness. I read in the journal Sykepleien that orthopaedics have repeatedly offered the government to reduce hip fractures by at least 500 a year by introducing a new routine at all hospitals, which will cost 100 million. kr per year. They have not received a response from the government. But this also has a different cost side, and let me use the example of hip fractures. Norway has 9 000 hip fractures per year. It costs about half a million dollars per piece in the first year, and it costs up to 1 million. kr the second year. In the case of capital letters and with a language on the right, the idea is that spending money on prevention measures against leghold traps and fractures is a cost for the acquisition of income. But the most important thing is to prevent the severe trauma, the suffering and perhaps death that can happen. Thanks to the Center Party and Toppe who have promoted this case. We in SV are impatient and believe that the effort must be stepped up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1462	Osteoporosis causes a lot of suffering and heavy costs to society. Many people are affected, and especially women. We are getting older, and the need for prevention, investigation and treatment of osteoporosis will increase in the coming years. Osteoporosis is a risk factor for fractures. Violations in the elderly are associated with high morbidity and significant mortality, and many become nurturing after fractures. Therefore, measures to reduce the incidence of osteoporosis and to prevent falls in people with osteoporosis are important. Physical activity and a healthy and varied diet are important for good bone density and can prevent bone cleavage. In addition, different medications could reduce the development of osteoporosis. Case prevention and training have demonstrated efficacy and reduces costs of care. Hospitals and municipalities need to cooperate on these measures. Some hospitals routinely measure bone density in patients with fractures where osteoporosis is suspected. Individuals must receive information from hospitals and doctors about falls and breaks, and the municipality can conduct case-prevention home visits and start case-prevention training. The representatives Toppe and Mossleth address important themes in their proposals. The proposal requires the government to ensure that all health establishments establish a special model for the prevention of crime and to ensure the financing of this offer. It is important that hospitals take action and treatment to reduce the risk of fractures. The FLS model is used in several hospitals, and prevention is a statutory task for health regions. Hospitals shall contribute to the promotion of public health and to the prevention of disease and injury. Preventive work may also be included in the ISF basis if the work involves patient contact. Hospitals are responsible for ensuring the proper treatment and follow-up of the patient. The priorities to be taken into account and the methods to be used to discharge these responsibilities are professional assessments to be carried out by hospitals and not least by hospital professionals. That is why I believe that one should not support the proposals of the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1475	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1480	We are all certain that this is a large group of patients who need better treatment and that it has great costs for both patients and society. But I understand that the government and the government are not interested in doing more and making sure that something actually happens. The strategy that was used to build traps was not successful – they were unable to achieve their own goals. I would like to ask the Council of State, because he is clear that the Central Party's proposals do not need to be adopted, but what is the Council of State's intention and plan to provide a better treatment for patients with osteoarthritis?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1488	Firstly, I do not think it is right to say that the government's strategy in this area was not successful. It could also be that we had very big ambitions, and if we had achieved all the goals, it could be because you didn't dare to set ambitions. This is a work that goes on and on, and that's important. The challenge with the proposal of the Centre Party – and that is often what goes on again – is that the Centre Party, when talking to the major words, talks about a reform of trust in health care, but the party does not trust that the professionals actually have the opportunity to do what is at the heart of the task of the professionals, such as: to choose the methods to be used. Then you want the Storting to go in and decide, and that's the opposite of a trust reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1495	Getting new national, professional guidelines for such a large patient group I think is actually something one can suggest without being met with a detailed health care and hospital manager. There must be certain limits. A proposal that we put forward in the budget, which we did not get back in this setting, is that we ask the Department to ensure that the Health Directorate starts working on it and get updated guidelines for the treatment and prevention of osteoporosis. The last were from 2005. There are some new supervisors, etc., for which the trade union community itself has taken the initiative. Why, then, is it that the government does not support and does not show the will to get a new professional, up-to-date guideline for this patient group?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1500	There are professional guidelines for this patient group, and it is the Directorate, together with the scientific community, that assesses when there is a need to update them. It is a continuous task to update the professional guidelines, but it is a work that takes place in the professional communities in cooperation with the Directorate. Right now, in the year we've been through, there has of course also been limited capacity in the directorate to prioritise part of the important work to update different professional guidelines.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1505	It is not quite right to blame the corona in this case, because here the professional community has for many years turned to the Health Committee on hearings and asked for new professional guidelines. We have written comments about it in settings, and the government party and the government council have never shown a willingness to look at this. It is especially important for a patient group to shift all the responsibility for the further development down the system to the different healthcare providers, who themselves report that the economic situation with input-driven funding does not allow us to obtain the multidisciplinary investment for osteoporosis patients. Does the Council see the need to give hospitals an assignment to interdisciplinary follow-up and take initiatives to bring up-to-date guidelines, which are now in place from 2005?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1512	Firstly, I have not ever recorded that health regions have believed that input-driven funding prevents them from working to establish interdisciplinary cooperation – on the contrary. In that case, it's new to me. Secondly, the input-driven funding shall not govern the professional practices of hospitals. It is also one of the reasons why we have a balance in the funding of our hospitals between basic funding and input-driven funding – precisely because the form of funding should not govern the professional content of the offer. With regard to the priority of which professional guidelines should be updated, major and important work is being done in the Directorate. There is always a great need to continuously update and review the professional guidelines.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1521	The cord shift is over. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1540	At the request of the Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1547	A tour operator sells two or more parts of a journey and under the package travel law they have a special obligation to provide a guarantee. There were 895 tour operators who had provided such a guarantee before the Corona. At the beginning of May this year, there were 709 enterprises. Only 18 of these are reported to have gone bankrupt. This means that many people have given up being tour operators – and a member of the Travel Guarantee Fund – longer. The tour operators are important for sales. Yes, they sell travel abroad to the Norwegians, but they sell travel in Norway as well. They're an engine for sales and a sales office for travel life. After the corona, it has been difficult to provide guarantees to the Travel Guarantee Fund, and the price has become very high. We're here today, and the background for Prop. 107 S is that the Stortinget ordered the government to join in and provide a state guarantee for the package tour operators, so that they have an opportunity to run their business when we are going to start travelling again. I am pleased that today we guarantee up to 50 pst. of the travel guarantee which packagers are required to provide to the Travel Guarantee Fund. It's incredibly difficult to say something about how much the warranty volume is really going to be, how many trips it is possible to sell, how much you want to sell travel for, and what the risk of loss is. It's by the government calculated for 50 pst. An overall committee has been somewhat critical of this, but it is a difficult calculation to do, and as a magnificence we have choices other than to rely on the government's calculations. But I would like to comment that the assessment is made by GIEK, who is perhaps the most used to assessing maritime nutrition, and they have found that the profitability of travel in 2019 was very poor. Yes, travel life has a poor profitability, but that doesn't mean it's not important. We have assessed that the large package travel companies that are not included in this scheme will be able to obtain a guarantee. However, the price will be relatively high — probably. For the Workers' Party, it has been very important that we get support for the tour operators in place, and it is also very important for us that the government assesses the situation for the package travel companies during September. With that, I address the proposal of which the Workers' Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1562	The representative of Åsunn Lyngedal has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1567	The Storting asked the government to come back as soon as possible with a temporary arrangement in which the state helps to restore a functioning guarantee market for package travel, and I am pleased that we are dealing with this today. As we've heard, it's about taking over 50 pst. the risks associated with the portfolios of banks or insurance companies of guarantees offered to small and medium-sized package tour operators — also against a fair share of the income of those operators from the guarantees. The guarantee framework is 525 million. kr, and contracts for risk relief between the State and banks and insurance companies may be concluded out of the current year and the contracts give out the risk relief next year, 2022. As we also know, such a system requires the approval of ESA. There are currently many enquiries to the Stortinget and the different batches from travel life in general and from package travel operators in particular. This is perhaps the industry that has been hit hardest over the longest period of time. It is nevertheless true that the enquiries have not essentially been about a lack of guarantees. In any case, it has not been reported as a major problem. However, package tour operators have a very important role in travel. They pick up customers from afar and close and package holiday offers for them. It can consist of accommodation, serving, experiences, transportation, with much more. Many smaller players in travel get their customer base or increase their customer base through package travel. Therefore, it is important that this group is ready to market and sell travels to Norway and Norway when, hopefully, travel activities start soon. The government's proposals help to ensure that the challenges of the organisers to provide guarantees do not increase, and with this proposition, we improve the situation for those who are facing considerable uncertainty in the run-up to the upcoming summer season. Then there has been some debate about whether to extend the scheme to all. We share the government's assessment that it is not right now, also because there is a significant increase in the proportion of Community funds that are then exposed to risk — perhaps up to 1.5 billion. kr. I'm glad we're adopting this proposition today. I think it's important, and it's urgent to get your travel life back on track. I would also like to inform you that the government parties are in favour of proposal No. 1, which the representative Lyngedal addressed in the previous article. So we are going to support proposal No. 1 during the part-session.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1582	For the Advance Party, it is important to seek solutions for all package tour operators, regardless of their size. The Progress Party will have a framework that will help us to have an up-to-date tourism industry even after society re-opens after the pandemic. The Government's proposal for a risk relief scheme for guarantees given to the Travel Guarantee Fund provides for a scheme reserved for small and medium-sized enterprises, where the State takes over 50 pst. of the guarantee liability. Travel life consists of a value chain in which small and large travel businesses are interdependent. Package tour operators operate as a distribution and sales channel to offer and sell their experience products to the smaller experienced companies. In return, small and medium-sized travel companies ensure that package travel companies have access to valuable consumer experiences. If the large package tour operators do not provide a guarantee, it will therefore have ring-fenced effects on the entire travel life, which depends on the package tour operators to maintain a customer base and the possibility of a fixed volume through the seasons. It's taken into account in Prop. 107 S for 2020-2021 at 80 pst. loss of the guarantee amount for SMEs. Here I will refer to the recording from Working Travel Life, which notes that it appears to be too loud. The figures from their studies show that the loss provisions must be substantially lower. The Progress Party considers that an extended scheme, including the major package tour operators, will not result in higher risk exposure to the State. And we will underline the importance of all package tour operators being included in a guarantee scheme for the Travel Guarantee Fund, in the context of a desire to maintain the entire value chain represented by the tourism industry, and to facilitate the sale of Norway as a destination when the world community reopens its travel activity. We need to put in place framework conditions here that help us to have an up-to-date travel industry even after society reopens and you can start travelling. With that, I would like to raise the proposals in which the Progress Party is involved, and then I would like to inform you that we support Amendment No subsidly. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1599	Then the representative Bengt Rune Strifeldt has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1604	I can mainly subscribe to the assessments of the meaning of travel life given in the previous articles. The package tour operators are an important part of Norwegian travel life and would have thought that we were making a wiser and better decision than the majority of those to make today. It is agreed in the Stortinget, in a call for proposals, that a scheme covering all package tour operators, plus that the Centre Party, the Advance Party and the SV want a scheme that is wider and better for the sum of package tour operators. Unfortunately, it doesn't get multiples. It's a bit of a matter of fact that the Grandfather's summons decisions are not fully followed up, that one looks at them as the guide from the government's side. Part of this crisis management tool reminds you of the ‘travel without hope’ exercise: it is a bet, but it is not exactly what you need. Proposal No. 2, 3 and 4 are unfortunately not getting more today because the Labour Party has also chosen not to support them. They have chosen to join the government party. It will have consequences for package tour operators throughout the country. In the case of proposal No: 1, there is a small patch on the wound, and the centre part, like several others, will subsidized proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1615	SV also supports and supports the proposal to extend this scheme here, so that there are both large and not least small and medium-sized players who are more covered by their losses. This is a matter of debate which we have had going on for six decades: how much should the community stand up? Here we think in SV that the government counts too much on the crowns now and does not see the long-term societal effects of not properly tuned up, can actually get. SV has been critical of some of the major travel operators, who are often organized in tax havens, etc., but we also see that here it is a value chain that is related. The people we've been in contact with in Northern Norway who are very dependent on travel life – especially the smallest municipalities, a majority of the municipalities are far above the national average when it comes to dependency on travel life in business – say that seeing the big and the small players in context is absolutely crucial if you're to understand how that industry works. If the one jerk gets the big effect down the system. The great fear is that by not taking proper care, we have started a cascade of damage to small, medium-sized and large enterprises around the country, which will ultimately have long-term economic effects for the community. Then the question is, are we going to put things right now, or are we going to take the damage and the ringings it has for the Norwegian economy, society and business structure, eventually? That's the last line the government has largely put on in this pandemic. The opposition has fixed a part of it along the way, but it has been the main line, that one wants to tighten up now, and we'll just see how it works. A reason why fear if travel life breaks is what comes, what becomes the option. We know that there's a very favorable time for a large global investor environment now that the pandemic is starting to collapse, to go into where local business has collapsed. The fear is that if you don't set up properly, you'll be faced with a time when the locally owned small and medium-sized businesses around the country, especially within travel life, are replaced by something quite different, which doesn't have the same amount of community in the pancreatic rage as the ones we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1626	The Government's proposal to establish a risk relief scheme for guarantees provided to the Travel Guarantee Fund for small and medium-sized package tour operators follows up the request decision of the Stortingen. 670, where the government has been asked to propose a scheme to help re-establish a functioning guarantee market for package tour operators. Package tour operators are an important piece of the ecosystem that constitutes the tourism industry. They give tourists access to experiences, places and activities that they would not come across on their own. They deliver customers to travel businesses all over the country. The government posted in Prop. 107 S for 2020-2021 a description and assessment of the situation in the guarantee market as of March 2021. Although there is no doubt that the package travel industry is severely affected by the pandemic, there has been considerable uncertainty about the impact on the guarantee market. There are still relatively few package tour operators who do not have a guarantee agreement. That the price of guarantees increases when the risk increases is not a market failure but a market failure. The Government considers that there are questions about the proper use of Community funds to intervene in the guarantee market. The market consists of a number of providers, both banks and insurance companies. The offer is undoubtedly influenced by the pandemic, but it is a functioning market even though premiums and collateral requirements have increased. I am in favour of – as many have been involved – the Workers' Party's proposal to evaluate the scheme. Much of the basis for this scheme has been characterised by uncertainty, and an evaluation along the way can provide us with useful information. The Government's proposal implies that the State assumes half of the risk associated with guarantees provided to the Travel Guarantee Fund for small and medium-sized package tour operators. I have recorded that the Business Committee has discussed different devices and the scope of the risk-relief scheme. The government has chosen to target small and medium-sized organisers because they contribute more than large players to increasing the customer base for tourism businesses across the country. In addition, it is more often the case that the major package tour operators, both those operating domestically and those operating abroad, have economically strong owners who have not had the same challenges of being guaranteed as SMEs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1641	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1647	The tour operators have lost 90 pst. of its turnover in the last year. They've been hard hit by the pandemic for a long time. The opposition has adopted loans and grants for this part of travel life in the revised national budget last year, and now we are getting a risk relief from the guarantees. It has requested the administration of the Travel Guarantee Fund for one year. It is quite clear that it is the pandemic that has made prices and the risk relief market so difficult. So we know that time is important, and this system has to be notified to ESA. So my question is, when can this important risk relief be in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1654	Let's hope that we can get there pretty fast. We have been in dialogue with ESA about this system and the device on it. Of course, we're dependent on the Storting adopting it, but here's the processes that have already begun. I don't think I should be standing here on the platform – wise of harm – and say a date, but at least it's a work that's going well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1661	Thanks for the answer – I hope we can at least get a hint that we have something to evaluate in September. I see that the government is fortunately in favour of that proposal. So can the Council of State give an indication if we're in place then, so that we have something to evaluate? We know that the Travel Guarantee Fund has asked for assistance and risk relief for the package travel companies for over one year, and this scheme would have preferred to be in place as of now. The market for the guarantees is very difficult to predict – how will it proceed, how much is the guarantee amount, and what are the offers? We assume that the scheme has worked for a while when we evaluate in September – will this be a real relief? What does the Minister think is important about the need to follow the development of the scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1668	I also want to be open to the fact that there is uncertainty about this. There is uncertainty about how many would like to make use of the scheme, and there is uncertainty about how many are actually going bankrupt and whether this relief is necessary. So it's bad for me to say how much use you'll necessarily have of it at the other end. But we aim for something to evaluate in September – we do absolutely – and I think it is very useful to take a foot in the ground in September, just to see how we are then. Hopefully this market will also look different, because the most important thing for these organizers is just tourists, and within that time I hope both that the Norwegians have chosen to travel domestically, and also that we get some foreign tourists to Norway – not least all those who have now enjoyed going out of the country on vacation. So I hope we both have experience from the system and see that the market is different because the optimism is greater.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1673	In its request Decision 670, the size ordered the government to come back with a proposal for a temporary arrangement to restore a well-functioning guarantee market for package tour operators. With reference to Prop. 107 for 2020-2021 a scheme for small and medium-sized travel businesses with 80 pst was then put forward. of the guarantee framework of 525 million. kr lose weight. This will really mean that the government expects 80 pst. small and medium-sized package tour operators are bankrupt as a result of the pandemic. The size has since been made aware that the government estimate is considered to be dramatically exaggerated and that a more realistic loss estimate is closer to the order of 20-30 pst. It is therefore desirable to have transparency in the decision-making basis for the 80 pst estimate and whether it is supported by GIEK. What assessments does the Council of State take into account when 80 pst. the guarantee framework for small and medium-sized travel businesses is expected to be lost and is it supported by GIEK risk assessments?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1680	There is considerable uncertainty about the loss provision for this scheme, and we have also stated that. It's not a non-functioning market. On the contrary – most of them have received a guarantee in the future. It's not good to say how much the loss provision should be, but here we have some advice from those who work on this and who have assessed what the needs might be. I record that the industry itself believes it is much lower than that, but I also record that Storting does not want to add it lower than that, precisely because you base the advice you have received from professionals. But the uncertainty is very much linked to this particular scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1689	It has been desirable to put in place a temporary guarantee scheme to ensure that all package tour operators, irrespective of their size. It is based on the fact that the large ones will also bind up a significant proportion of their liquidity as a result of the guarantee requirement of the Travel Guarantee Fund. If liquidity is tightened for the large, there will be ring-fences for small and medium-sized travel businesses selling their services through the major package tour operators. With reference to Prop. 107 for 2020-2021 shows that there is considerable uncertainty about the industry’s guarantee needs and that it is difficult to calculate risks in the guarantee market. Different loss estimates have been generated if all package tour operators are included in the scheme. It is worth noting, however, that the risk is lower for the larger and relatively robust travel businesses and that the loss provision must therefore be considered to be lower for these enterprises than for the small and medium-sized enterprises. How much does the State Council expect to lose if a temporary guarantee scheme is extended to include the major package tour operators?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1698	I would like to say that I think the Progress Party has been very consistent in this respect with support schemes. You can't say that about all of the parts in the opposition. We have had a lot of criticism that the big companies also get a lot of support through the various crisis packages. Now we've gotten a little bit into the pandemic, and we see that most of these actors are given the necessary guarantees. Then we have chosen to align our efforts with those that we believe have the greatest need and the fewest possibilities to collect this guarantee in other ways. We see that the big ones make up a lot of travels in volume. The large workplaces are important motors for travel around the country, while some of them send out more tourists than they get home. We see that they have other opportunities both because they have capital owners and because they have other opportunities in the market. That is why we have chosen to focus this on small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1705	The cord shift is over. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1712	It has been a bit of a vision to witness a business debate where the signatures are more consistent in the history of SV than the traditional business party on the Right. Where SV has actually understood that there is a supply chain and a value chain, Right says that this is not a problem, because you have not received a particular number of requests. I thought it would be a little too easy if business policy were to be based on how many requests you get into this house. For the Progress Party, it's about seeing the whole of business. Travel nutrition is an industry which is particularly hard underpinned by decisions taken by the authorities in view of the pandemic, and therefore we have to set it up. When one has enormous potential and great value creation when the pandemic is over, it would just be missing that we don't set up now, so that these companies have a chance to use their capital to sell Norway, sell travel products, rather than set up guarantees that are more expensive afterwards. That's what's at the heart of this case, that we want travel life to be ready to create values and avoid going bankrupt. If they have to raise too much capital now, the challenge will be big when one comes out at the other end. I had believed that the Right would understand such things, but records that here it is the opposition that has had to press forward both today's case and a proposal. What worries me is this reverse operation, the president's party, and the Labour Party here. There have been a number in Stortinget to understand the whole value chain and to understand the whole of travel nutrition – until today, when the Party of Workers chooses to turn around and say that one should not participate in a scheme for the big ones. I had hoped that one would have been given an explanation in the debate on why the Labour Party has been concerned about this before, asked written questions and were in the media, while when one comes to the rise page and is going to deliver on the policy one has agreed for a long time, joins the government party and says no because one will not help the big ones. It's not the big ones to provide a guarantee for them, it's all the subcontractors of the big ones. It's the whole value chain, which is related, as SV understands, but the government party pretends they're not busy about. That's what's our concern, that the Labour Party could have formed multiples. Had they voted in favour of proposal No. 2-4, in teams with SV, the Center Party and the Advance Party, it had been plural. Then a Sikra had a good order, one had secured all the sub-contractors who depended on assignments. So the working party chooses to go away from the unity that has existed, to go away from the good cooperation that they have had on the travel guarantee scheme, and to join the government, which says no. I had hoped that the debate could have given us an explanation as to why the Labour Party, when they have the opportunity to help district, travel and many small actors, well to say no today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1723	As I mentioned in my previous post, it is important for the Progress Party to seek solutions for all package tour operators. It's very important for the travel industry, and perhaps especially important for the travel industry in North Norway. 26 out of 39 municipalities in Troms and Finnmark are more dependent on tourism activity based on employment than the national average. When you see how this case has evolved since we started for some months back under the pandemic, to ensure that we have a travel life even after the pandemic, it is very special to see that representatives from the opposition, who have been high on the track to criticise the government's handling of the guarantee relief – and in particular the two Norwegian representatives, who have criticised the government's handling of the travel guarantee fund and the guarantee relief – are those who are currently acting as support wheels for the government. That is the reality, and it is disappointing. I should have liked to see that we could have formed a majority to put in place a risk relief that would have worked for the big ones, regardless of size. What is important, and for which the Progress Party is fighting, is to have a framework that helps us to have an up-to-date tourism industry even after society reopens. Unfortunately, the Labour Party does not want to be involved. Finally, I would like to say that we in the Progress Party will subsidiaryly support the Committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1735	I want to start by saying that I think this is a difficult matter, and there are no simple answers. First of all, there's no doubt that it's a value chain. There is no one who fails to talk about the fact that travel life is a coherent value chain, that the large package travel companies have an impact on the small travel businesses. No one supports it in this discussion. What it's all about is how you can manage to get funded package travel and provide guarantees in a satisfactory way. Can the big ones get this into the market in a better way than the small ones? There's a significant discussion up there. The largest companies are not completely insignificant, nor have they been completely insignificant given the attention of the state through the pandemic. There is, of course, a problem in this. The smallest have most likely not received anything through the various support schemes we have, while the large ones here have actually received quite considerable attention through the other schemes in connection with this pandemic and the tragic situation we are in. The working party does not intend to reject the fact that there may be a need to get the large ones into a guarantee scheme and to get the guarantee provisions off the hands of the State. But we're asking that we get an assessment of it, see if it's possible to restart it and get started with what's the starting point here. We are therefore asking for the assessment we are making in our proposal. When the government parties vote for it, and the council stresses that she will assess it, I expect that if we do not now get a well-functioning guarantee market for the major package travel companies as well, the government will come back to Stortinget with a scheme that includes them. That's the assumption. I hope the Council of State can confirm that this is how she intends to follow up the decision of the proposal that the Workers' Party has promoted. But the uncertainty lies there, and I think everyone should initially take over. Our intention is to provide good assistance and assistance to travel life, including the smallest travel companies and the largest package travel companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1744	The working party is concerned with travel, and I know that the Progress Party knows very well. We are going to discuss a proposal for a representative later today, where we want a commitment to a strategy to get the sustainable and right travel life in Norway for the future. There is nothing to suggest that the major package travel companies are unable to provide guarantees. That's the point of this case. There are no large package travel companies who report that they are unable to provide guarantees. So, of course, the price is high. It's very regrettable, and that's why it's important for us to see if it develops in such a way that they won't be able to provide guarantees if they don't get a risk relief. I am pleased that we have a majority in favour of this proposal today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1751	It is nice that the debate developed a little after the Progress Party had more posts and the Labour Party would try to explain itself out of its reverse operation. They don't at all want to make me wiser with what they said here, at least. One says that no one underestimates that this is a discussion. It's through the vote that you decide what position you have. The workers' party, which has called for schemes and was busy with schemes, could now have made sure that arrangements were put in place today, but they vote against them. Then a suggestion to evaluate or look at something in September, after the option, helps little. I don't think any travel agents think of it as anything but a postponement to somehow escape being held responsible for now saying no to a system that will be decisive. When at the same time admits that the price of these guarantees on the market is higher, one from the Labour Party has accepted that the big players should raise even more capital to provide guarantees and have fewer possibilities and smaller muscles to sell Norway as a destination. Then a question might arise as to why other countries have done this in a more flexible way. Germany has, for example: given large government guarantees to TUI. Should it really be that Norwegian policy is about doing what can so that Norwegian actors cannot compete with foreign players? We know we have the strange wealth tax, which is a major disadvantage for Norwegian companies. In tourism, it is a disadvantage to be the Norwegian owner. Now we get – probably – a decision today that also makes it a disadvantage to be a large Norwegian player, but is a large German player, a salesman can travel to the North with German State guarantees. Why should we address ourselves in such a way that being Norwegian would be a disadvantage in industrial policy? I've never realized that. Here lies the responsibility and quiver of the Workers' Party. Votes for the proposal No. 2–4, add one to the value chain of travel operators, not only the big ones, but also all subcontractors. If one disagrees and only has a suggestion that one should look at it after the election, there is no good cause for the travel industry. It is sadly a reverse operation The Labour Party must take responsibility for it, and we should remind them of that. Here it is clear that the Progress Party, SV and the Center Party are on the team with the tourism industry, the Workers' Party is on the team with the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1764	In this case, I believe that we should have in mind the problem we want to solve. Most of the players in this industry are given guarantees that they can continue to operate. What they're missing right now are tourists. And we hope to see that end now that we've started reopening – now that it's possible to travel domestically, and now that it's working with corona passports, both for domestic and outdoor use in Europe, too. I believe that the proposal by the Workers' Party to take a foot in the ground in September to assess the situation makes sense. There is still considerable uncertainty about this, but we know that the big players have different conditions to cope with in the market than the small and medium-sized ones have. I would like to confirm to the representative of Aasland, who asks quite directly whether we intend to follow up that decision, that of course we do. The government is concerned that we should set up as long as necessary. And of course, we want to assess the information we get in September, when, hopefully, this system has worked for a while, so that we can see and assess whether there is a need for further action. As I said in my post, there has been a good dialogue with ESA on this matter. We must have it adopted in Stortinget before we can put in place the scheme. And then, of course, there will be a need for GIEK and those who are going to provide these guarantees, i.e. the insurance companies, the banks, etc., in order to make it easier for you to get started, but we're going to have something to evaluate in September. That's at least what's our goal and our intention now. And then we're going to use the information we get to evaluate the situation further.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1775	It was the mention of the company TUI that made me choose to take the floor, a company that has received state guarantees from Germany, and that is one of the companies that Njåstad wants to take the risk of, with state money, to ensure that they can provide a travel guarantee that they themselves are well able to provide. It is such that the tour operators existing in Norway are subject to compensation schemes. We'll help them with the losses they have. Now we are talking about ensuring that everyone can provide a guarantee to the Travel Guarantee Fund. It has an important consumer side. The Workers' Party has made a proposal, which is dealt with together with the RNB, that we believe that 20 pst should be given to those specifically affected by the disease protection measures. of the turnover they used to have before the pandemic, in compensation, because they are particularly affected by the pandemic we have been in, and should receive fair compensation. But here we're talking about using government money for risk relief, and there are very few companies that are not part of the scheme that we are fortunately adopting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1780	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1797	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes per party group and 3 minutes per government member. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, there will be up to six lines with replies from members of the government, and those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1804	I would first like to thank the Committee for good cooperation in the matter. There are hectic times for all of us now in the interview at the session, so it has required everyone's efforts to get timecaps and temptations to go up. This case is probably not the one that has demanded the greatest process, but everything is related to everything, that someone uses to say. To the proposal itself: an overall committee supports the intentions behind the original proposal of the Progress Party, which was to enable the creation of individual enterprises for 16-year-olds. It is in many ways the small and medium-sized enterprises that are the backbone of our business, and it is important that young people too are encouraged to be entrepreneurs and start their own business. This may be done by young people over 15 years of age, but the Vergemålsgesetz requires the consent of their parents and the state administrator in order for them to be able to operate independently. And here the Committee and the Advance Party are separating layers in the matter, because the Advance Party believes that going through the state manager is an unnecessary bureaucracy. There are many good examples of teenagers with good entrepreneurial talent who have started very lucrative businesses. This is great, and we all owe it to each other. But at the same time, there may be good reasons why we continue to deal with the protection law and have with the state administrator as a necessary detour for the youth before they are 18. Most people who start up before they are 18 years of age do well, but there are also examples of young people who do not get the follow-up that may be necessary at such a stage, which may also put young people at unnecessary risk. Finally, I would like to highlight Young Entrepreneurship, which is a private organisation that offers schools guidance in conducting entrepreneurship training. They help students start up, operate and then quit a business over a school year. This has been supported by the government and, in the budgetary agreement with the Advance Party for 2018, money was allocated to a centre for entrepreneurship in the school at the College of the Inland. The Progress Party did not address its original proposal in the course of the debate, but, together with others, put forward new proposals. That's what I expect the Progress Party will mention in its articles.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1817	A short time ago, Stortinget debated the perspective message. Once again, we were reminded of the pressure on government finances and that we are constantly approaching the point where we have to set the toast for nourishment. As usual, sustainable welfare schemes, taxes, pensions and labour productivity were the most widely discussed issues. That is of course fully understandable and also what is going to affect our financial position most in the next decades. However, a theme that is often left out in such contexts is how important it is to stimulate the curiosity and creativity of young people. If we are to be able to create more jobs in the future, especially in private business, it is absolutely essential that more people of early age dare to bet and dare to follow their dreams. Small businesses are crucial for the Norwegian economy, and small and medium-sized enterprises account for almost half of Norway’s annual value creation. Most of these are run in some form by a founder or an entrepreneur, one who has taken the step and has invested – perhaps everything, but that is often what needs to be done. We believe that it is important to create and strengthen a culture of business start-up and entrepreneurship in Norway, that young people are better trained in how to set up and run a business, and that better provision is made for young people to set up real businesses. We are aware that according to the Vergemålsgesetz, children under the age of 18 have limited legal capacity. We are also aware that consent is required from guardians — often parents, then — and the state administrator in order for young people over 15 years of age to start individual enterprises and that this is justified by the need to protect young people. Nevertheless, we believe that obtaining approval from the state administrator seems to be an unnecessary and bureaucratic requirement. One of the proposals we are promoting today is that the government has to put forward a plan to stimulate more entrepreneurial activities among young people under 18 years of age, and then it is natural that this is one of the aspects being assessed. The actor who definitely does the most for young people and entrepreneurs today is the Young Entrepreneurship Foundation. About 12,000 students in secondary education complete each year Youth Enterprises, where students gain experience in establishing, operating and completing their own youth enterprise during their everyday school life. It's a race that's very popular, and many more people should be able to participate in it. It is a pity that the majority of the population – and especially the government parties – do not agree with that. This could have led to more entrepreneurial and entrepreneurship in society and, above all, important lessons for young people. With that, I'll take our suggestions into account in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1830	The representative Sivert Bjørnstad has drawn up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1835	The fight of the left for small and medium-sized enterprises is well known. We are concerned that small ones will be allowed to grow and grow larger. We are concerned that they will be allowed to evolve to become established actors that carry business forward. Among the voters of the Left and the Left, we find many young entrepreneurs who dare to invest in both traditional and new industries. Many have started young people with a passion and a commitment to what they believe and dream of creating. We are also concerned with the youth who dares to bet, who dares to learn from the hard school of life, who dares to do things in new ways, who dares to challenge the existing. This is young people who burn to create something for themselves and for others. These are people who are driving society forward to something better. These are the future leaders of society. That is why we are very sympathetic to the proposal that is being discussed here today. We believe in young people who want to bet on their own, create values for themselves and for them around them, for example. by entering the fishing industry through recruitment quotas. We also believe it is possible to establish financial support schemes for young people that depend on large investments to get started. We also believe that the power lies with the individual, and is committed to strengthening the individual's rights in the face of the big society. Young people are those who are future and who must live up to today’s decisions. We believe that 16-year-olds should be allowed to vote and make elections in all national, regional and municipal elections. Nevertheless, the age of government is 18 years. That means that a 16-year-old who establishes an individual enterprise, regardless of what is decided by the Storing in this case today, will be subject to his parents or marriages. Today, according to the Vergemålsgesetz, young people over the age of 15 can enter into employment agreements on their own, start and run businesses, and have the means at their disposal. This provides good opportunities for young people even if parental or guardian consent and government administrators are required in order for 15-year-olds to be able to engage in self-employment. The Vergemålsgesetz opens up the possibility for minors over 15 years of age to start their own business through individual enterprises, as the proposers wish. Therefore, the Left does not want to support the proposal, but we support the fact that young people want to bet – with the rules in force today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1850	Small and medium-sized enterprises are key cornerstones of the Norwegian economy. They are in a way our everyday business, and I believe it is essential that it is stimulated for increased entrepreneurial activity. The government has already presented many measures to contribute to it. Among other things, I can mention the action plan for women entrepreneurs. The representatives of Bjørnstad, Strifeldt, Gulati and Wiborg of the Progress Party have proposed that the government should organise better so that individuals under the age of 18 can set up individual enterprises. The majority of the Economic and Social Committee has agreed that the proposal should not be adopted, and although I am also pleased that we are going to make young people want to be entrepreneurs, I agree that the proposal should not be adopted. There are several reasons for this. I have also outsourced it in the letter I sent to the nutrition committee, but I want to mention some important points. These are good arrangements for young entrepreneurs today. Schools have different programmes, including: that Young Entrepreneurship, which allows young people to test out their business. Persons over 15 years of age may also have an individual enterprise in their name if the spouse, as a general rule, agrees with their parents and the manager agrees to it. The limitation of the possibility of having an individual enterprise in their own name for people under 18 years of age is in many ways complex. Firstly, we stress that an individual enterprise is a business which a person operates in his own name and with unlimited personal responsibility. Secondly, persons who have just been mentioned are not authoritative and have not seen any legal capacity to act in this way. That is to say, they cannot assume liabilities, enter into agreements or similar obligations. It is important for young people to have personal autonomy and freedom and the opportunity to try out new areas. My assessment is that today's solution, that young people over the age of 15 with the support of the guardian and the state administrator can set up individual companies, balances the different considerations in a good way, and I believe that the legislation already provides good facilities for young entrepreneurs to start their own business. I also feel that the committee has pointed out in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1863	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1868	The Council of State has set out in an excellent manner why she does not agree with a proposal which is not being promoted here today. We decided that after reading the letters of the Council of State to the Committee. Then we thought that here it's possible to make it a little bit more rounder and a little bit softer, as the government often likes it. In my silent mind, I thought that here are two proposals, classic ones, such as a bourgeois government, bourgeois government parties, and the Progress Party could have agreed. It is a matter of allowing more high-level students to participate in programmes through Young Entrepreneurship, and of providing a plan to stimulate more entrepreneurial activities among young people under 18. But there I was wrong. The government parties do not support any of those proposals, nor have they so far justified in their speeches from the pulpit as to why they do not support them. Then I try to address that question to the Council of State: why is it difficult to support the two proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1873	As the representative himself is aware, this is a bit marked by the fact that the representatives made a proposal that they did not think was a very good idea. We can agree on that in many ways. Then they make some very round and general suggestions, and it's really a little bad to know what they mean we're going to do. Young Entrepreneurship is a private, non-profit organization and that is not what we control. There is a lot of good work being done today that we can cheer on and build up under, but I have problems understanding what kind of action the representatives really want with this. Because we can't control the private, non-profit organizations or go in and control the detail school and how to operate. I'm more surprised that the Progress Party didn't have anything more tangible to come with, if they had so many good ideas.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1880	The cord shift is over. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1900	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes per party group and 3 minutes per government member. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, the opportunity to change lines will be given with up to six lines with replies after contributions from members of the government. And those who have to draw on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1907	First, I would like to thank the Cooperation Committee and thank you for the draft representative. We're here with a proposal that contains two minority votes today, and they're supported by the SV, the Center Party and the Labour Party. I'll deal with the proposals first. The background to the proposal is the situation of Norwegian travel life, where there is a need to take more long-term action. We're known in a pandemic, which has especially gone beyond travel nutrition. It's a very important industry, and especially in the districts, this has gradually become a very important industry. Many places are corner stone farms that keep up the community, that have added many people, but that have been poorly compensated, I'll add, through this pandemic. We already see the consequences of this, but we don't see the full range of consequences of how you've handled the nutrition pandemic. Now we're in front of a reopening, and then the question is, What now? There are the two suggestions coming in. The one thing is to establish a 21-process for travel life. And the second is to make sure that Norwegian travel lives are on Norwegian hands, and to strengthen the role of Norwegian-owned travel life. The two proposals are just the red-green opposition behind them. The government is opposed to establishing its own 21 process. 21 processes are the hallmark of a set of research, industry and management in typical working groups to provide recommendations to decision makers. Since the early 2000s, 30–40 such processes have been carried out. It's a way of working that's been evaluated, and it's a very smart, good way of getting good, coordinating input from different actors in specific areas of responsibility. The government party does not want this for travel life. They point to the fact that they have allowed 50 million. kr to an international investment in the marketing of Norway as a tourism destination. I would like to emphasize that a 21-process is much more than the marketing of Norway as a travel life goal. It is much more extensive than that and would be a very important contribution when we are about to re-open society and re-enter the industry with broken back, but it is not supported. Furthermore, there is a proposal to strengthen ownership. Neither do the Government Party and the Progress Party support their proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1922	The representative of the county has then drawn up the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1927	I would like to open with thanking the Centre Party, which has promoted this good proposal for a representative. Now we've been standing here for over a year and just talking about how we're going to compensate for the consequences the pandemic has had for travel life, and now it's time to look forward as well. The Workers' Party will always be engaged in an active industrial policy. The state has to set goals, make demands on business, and we have to support the development we want. On 9 May, Visit Norway presented a travel strategy called Strong impressions with small prints – there is at least one of the concepts in it. And it's incredibly important that we make a modern travel life policy for Norway now. We have to reduce emissions, we have to get more money left for every tourist, and we have to work together well to facilitate this industry. I think it's underestimated that 7 out of 100 in Norway were employed in travel life before the pandemic. 171,000 employees – it is a major industry. Export values for 59 billion kr – that's more than half of what we export seafood for. These are important numbers, and they can be increased if you're betting, and if you know where you want. For the Workers' Party, a 21-process is very important. So we've brought it up. We have also said that visiting management is important. We know that as travel life increases in scope, it can create challenges in press periods in some smaller places, and it can be difficult to get well-placed for a small municipality with small economic muscles. That is why we have also said that it is important to invest in common good finance pilots here. I hope that the government parties and the Progress Party will vote against this proposal, not show the whole and full desire of the government parties to facilitate travel life after the pandemic. I hope that you will vote against the proposal and come up with the same proposals later on – as we have seen some examples of. At least it is important that we have an active industrial policy for travel as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1944	We're dealing with a plan to revisit the travel industry after the pandemic. The Progress Party has made its own proposal to revisit Norwegian business and thereby Norwegian tourism. That is why we have no intention of supporting this proposal. However, in the case of measures to repatriate Norwegian tourism, the Labour Party should certainly vote for a case we dealt with earlier today, which is exceptionally important in terms of repatriation of Norwegian tourism.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1951	For the Central Party, travel life is very important. It's an industry that's in the whole country, and it's an industry that, in many communities and cities, is considered a corner stone business. The consequences of the pandemic are enormous. I think they're more serious and will be longer than we might fear. Therefore, a more active policy is needed to maintain the Norwegian travel industry. We are at risk of some communities being permanently changed as a result of the pandemic with consequences for travel life. We cannot accept that, and that is why this proposal has been tabled by the Central Party. This proposal has two objectives. The only thing is that we want to strengthen Norwegian travel life after the pandemic, but perhaps just as important is the proposal to secure Norwegian ownership of travel businesses. We know that many travel businesses are struggling financially, and we know that we have an enormously attractive travel product in Norway, and we fear that there will be a buy-in rudder from foreign operators that will secure more control over Norwegian travel life. It's a development the centre party doesn't want, and it's the background for us making this proposal. Yes, that's how I know they would have said in the Right if they had shared in the debate, that the Preike chair cannot be moved abroad. No, but we want all those involved in travel to the Preikestool to be local and national. That's what this is all about for us. I am pleased that the Workers' Party and SV support the proposal of the Centre Party, because it is about what a realist understanding actually has. It's about understanding the seriousness of the situation in travel life, and it's about being willing to take action and use the policy to ensure that travel life in Norway also in the future has Norwegian and local ownership. That's what the Center Party is working for, and it's unfortunately the majority of the Stortinget today is about to vote down. Morten Wold had taken over the president's office here.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1968	Initially, I would like to remind you of what is the first priority of the government, and that is to get a robust and lasting reopening of society. It's also the best thing we can do now for the travel industry to give them the customers and the revenues faster back. At the same time, we are faced with a sort of road divide where travel life will gradually build up again, and it can now be a good time to take some long-term action that can give us a more profitable and sustainable travel life in the future. The need to address structural challenges was also the background for last year’s government asked Innovation Norway to develop a national travel strategy. It was delivered to me a few weeks ago. The strategy contains 23 recommended actions, several of which are parallel to the measures mentioned in the draft representative. The Government has already adopted two measures directly related to the strategy. We have increased the state contribution to the international marketing of Norway as a destination by 50 million. kr in year. In practice, this is equivalent to a doubling of Norway’s campaign funds in 2021. The government will also set up a public body to investigate the framework conditions for travel destination development and visitor management locally. This action concerns themes such as common goods, cruise traffic and the role of the municipality in the development of destinations, and includes several measures in the tourism strategy. In the case of Norwegian ownership in the tourism industry, which is proposed here, I can confirm that the government does not see the need for any state intervention in this regard. The key is to bring in owners with a long-term perspective and both the will and competence to develop their business in a profitable and sustainable direction. These are the main factors of the government. Now, when we're going to judge ourselves as a travel nation for the future, it's important to have an overall approach to the task. I recommend that we take the action of the national travel strategy, and put myself in this position behind the recommendation of the business committee in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1983	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1988	I can't push myself to comment on that 50 million. Norway is now adding Innovation to marketing abroad, is approx. the same and perhaps a little less than what was taken from the same international marketing at the start of 2020. But back to the question. I'm glad the Council of State sees that the situation we're in is an opportunity to take long-term action. With regard to the national travel strategy, international marketing against our perhaps closer markets is now important. In addition, we are now informed that we are being investigated about the visit management and the common good financing. I think that's very important, but I think we have some investigations about it already. I would like to ask a little about the pilot who is requested in the suspension, where Vestland and More and Romsdal and several companies have wanted to try out traffic management and common good financing – can it be timely to implement?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e1995	This was a big theme before the pandemic hit us. A document 8 was also presented. At least parts of this came right at the beginning of the pandemic. It's a challenge that's been waiting a little while because we haven't had that much travel life. But I expect them to come back with full strength now that we're opening up again – perhaps not in 2021, but in 2022, etc. I feel very strongly that travel life itself wants us to see this in context. I feel that when we assumed that we were going to put down a NOU selection, it was very well received just because we have to see things in context, and there are problems there that we have to deal with. We have not nailed the mandate or put the sample down yet, but I have already received good input from the travel community about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e2003	Facilitation for visits and guests with us is important, both for those who are coming to us, and for those who live in the places that are being visited. Being able to finance this organisation is what you want to test out through joint good finance pilots. What's important to think about is, what's the alternative? Either we have to create state funding mechanisms, so that we can manage garbage, toilet conditions, maybe cut paths, or then we have to burden ourselves with a hard-to-do municipal economy. Very often these destinations are located in small municipalities. Or we have to dry out saying that we can look for ways that those who come and visit us can join in and fund it. Could it be possible to imagine that having a pilot in ten selected locations, as pointed out in this Western project, may be part of what is to be included in the NOU ordered by the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e2012	I don't want to rule anything out at this point. I'm busy doing that job a little bit. One of the actors I've already received is the Preikestolen Foundation. There they have a large and great parking facility, and then they use that money to finance the promotion and safety measures on the tourist path up to the Preikestol plateau. Now there are questions about whether they can use parking facilities for that type of financing. I'm concerned that we have to look at these things, because I think we agree, the representative Lyngedal and I, that the law of the open air, the right of all persons, the opportunity for people to use Norwegian nature, is very strong. We have to be able to combine the rights of all people with the appropriate management of the main tourist areas we have in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e2021	There is not as much research in the tourism industry as there are in many other fields. It is pointed out here today through the desire for a Travel Life 21 process, also called the REIS21. Then it's important to organise a knowledge-based policy in travel, perhaps especially now when we're going to get the prints down. Is there any assessment of whether we should focus on research, the State actors and the economic operators getting down together and looking at how we can reduce emissions from the Norwegian tourism industry and build a sustainable industry for the future, which is also about better profitability and good employment?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e2028	I think the representative Lyngedal said it quite well in his post that what we want is a greener and more sustainable travel life in the future. We want tourists who are here longer, who spend money and experience more when they're here. I feel that we have an industry that is very offensive to achieve just this. I also agree that there is a need to involve the academy in this. It's also an assessment I'm sitting with now when I'm going to put down this NOU committee – what contribution we can get from there. The government will assess the measures presented by Innovation Norway but also presented in close cooperation with travel. Innovation Norway has had a very strong commitment to this job and received many recordings along the way. What the representative is about now, about academics and research, I believe is an important part of the way forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e2035	In his post, the Council of State said that the most important thing for the government was a robust reopening of Norway. Can the Council of State in Human Languages explain what that means for travel life?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e2040	What's important for travel life now – and I want to say the whole breadth of travel life now – is that when we start reopening, we manage to control the infection situation. There's going to be outbreaks here and there, but we hope we don't get new, big waves and can have a steady and gradual opening. It's good for the food industry. We saw the jubilee here yesterday. It's also good for tourists, whether they're native or foreign, to see that they're working systematically, that there's light at the end of the tunnel, that we're working on setting up corona passports both for domestic and not least for foreign tourists coming, because that's just how they can have predictability in their reopening.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e2045	Some of what we want to do with this proposal is to secure the Norwegian ownership of the travel companies after the pandemic. In my post, I expressed concern that one should, when a difficult financial situation, experience that foreign capital is coming and would like to buy up in Norwegian travel life. Then my question to the Council of State is, is this something that the government sees is possible to happen, and is there any government I think will be negative if that happens?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e2050	We have foreign owners today in different travel businesses, and it is not necessarily negative that Norway appears to be an attractive country, or that travel life appears to be an attractive industry to invest in. Attracting capital is also an important part of making business go around. What matters to the government is that we have owners who are long-term and strategic, who are involved in and develop the jobs. What we largely live on in the whole country are people who have jobs in the tourism industry or other industries, whether national or international.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e2057	I record that one is very positive to foreign ownership in the travel businesses. For the Central Party, it is primarily a goal to have local ownership of the travel businesses, and that a anchoring of the companies locally will be a strength. Then my question is: does the government want to take action to secure it even after the pandemic, that the part of local ownership in travel life doesn't go down?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e2062	We're busy helping this industry through this pandemic so that on the other hand we have a travel life, that we have jobs, that people can come back to their jobs. And we have a diversity in travel. It's local, it's national and it's international owners. What matters to me, and what matters to the government, is that we have good owners – that we have owners who develop their businesses, who are helping to transform our travel life into a greener and more sustainable travel life in the future, who are helping to create full-time jobs, making it an attractive industry to work in and live off throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e2067	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e2075	If we go back 15-20 years in time, the prospects for Norwegian travel life – I would say – were quite challenging. Visiting figures were poor, travel destinations were poorly exploited, and one also had a demanding marketing situation and visitation figures. So there has been a very positive development, and until the pandemic, there has been an increase in value creation, employment growth and an increase in the number of visits. One has also had discussions about areas that are subject to considerable pressure. A minority in the United Kingdom is asking for a “process 21” for travel life – a completely natural process for most other areas to gather knowledge and assessments that will enable one to build good conclusions for the future. The majority say no, they won't. At least a ‘process 21’ does not deserve travel life; it is what the majority now say. It's completely incomprehensible. It is also quite incomprehensible that a counter-parties to present a plan for an industry that is so important, based on strengthening Norwegian travel life after the corona pandemic and ensuring Norwegian ownership of travel businesses. That a majority say no to that is completely impossible to understand. I don't understand any of the reasons. Then the representatives of the Progress Party come to the pulpit and say that we should vote in favour of the travel guarantees, that the state should also relieve the large companies, and use it as an excuse not to vote for this. That's a bad argument. I understand that it is important for the Progress Party to provide travel guarantees and state guarantees – taxpayers' money – to the large companies and the large capitalist owners of the large companies in Norway, but why not take part in the effort and get knowledge of the diversity of Norwegian travel and travel life? Why not put the greatest possible commitment in how to develop it in a sustainable, green way – a way that makes it even more interesting to put more money back in Norwegian travel life? No, they won't. Here, the Progress Party has a unique opportunity to have a majority in favour of such a plan, which they may not get for what is about business in general. If the Progress Party is particularly concerned with travel life, they should not be opposed to proposals specifically designed to strengthen Norwegian travel life, because then the argument about love and care for Norwegian travel life is razed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e2084	I think my party has explained the proposals very well, so I want to add a moment to the debate by greeting Oppland – no longer a state of my own after the government of Solberg has coerced the states, but my proud decision-making district. I hear that the debate starts with, among other things. is in research and development as an important topic, where the Council of State has a great advantage with its background as former Minister of Research and Higher Education, and I expect that she can also use her weight to prioritise travel life in research and development, because we need more knowledge in order to achieve the objectives of the Council of State, in the sphere of business in general. So I can say hello from Uppland, where there has been a membership survey, among other things. in the NHO. Many businesses now see light in the tunnel, but travel life is still very concerned and very uncertain about what they have in store for the summer. There are still large local outbreaks. Both Gjøvik, Hedmarken and Nord-österdal have had it tough recently. This is unpredictable both for employees and for the local market. Also due to changes in the permitting legislation, it is now difficult to take people back to work, because you do not know how long they can last. Now there are also bills and liquidity issues. I have also talked to major business owners who are concerned because they are now getting questions about liquidity and are risking stopping deliveries. It is also serious, because although they are given the opportunity to open, it is not safe for them to offer goods. Both large and small travel businesses have run out of reserves. They've spent their savings, perhaps both their own and their family. We're a lot of people here to countries that have it tough, but these are people who have lost their jobs and maybe their life's work, which they've built up over a long time, over generations, and who can now go to hell. Governments are talking about new, green conversion, but what about taking care of the many good, small businesses in travel that are now scattered throughout the country, putting both farms and food producers into work, using local raw materials and resources and helping to ensure that it is just possible to live around the country. The most effective would be to provide predictability with reduced VAT out of 2021, as the Senterpartie has been called for. But we record that neither will the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e2099	We shall then take a break in the debate on case No. 11, and there will be a call to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e2112	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting. The size first goes to voting on the case no. 20 to 28 from Tuesday 25 May, Agenda No Eighty-six.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e2126	Four proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Espen Barth Eide on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Greens' Greens' Party proposal No 2, from Espen Barth Eide on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 3 and 4, from Ole André Myhrvold on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a proposal to amend the Energy Act so that the offshore network infrastructure is owned by Statnet under the same conditions as on land and inter-country infrastructure.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e2155	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a proposal for clarification of the wording dealing with concession requests pending, in a way that makes it clear that only State network can build and operate foreign tables and that a private cable such as NorthConnect cannot be put into service without the ownership being transferred to Statnett.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e2170	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 by the Labour Party and the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to ensure that Statnett is given the responsibility for coordinating, harmonising and managing sea networks and hybrid interconnections, as well as for being system architect and managing contact with users.’ Red has announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e2232	It is voted on in the second sentence of Section 4-2 of the first paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e2242	It is contested by the third paragraph of Section 4-2. The Socialist Left and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e2257	Alternatively, between II in the vote and proposal No. 3, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Room number II is replaced by the following: II The law applies from the time the King decides. ‘... Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e2281	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e2295	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e2309	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e2328	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Terje Halleland on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to put forward a strategy on how Norwegian research environments and the petroleum industry can continue their leadership in research and technology development, so that the industry remains a driving force in Norway both competently and economically in the future.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish a new DEMO 2000 facility, where part of the aid is granted as a loan. Many projects are being given today at 25 p.m. aid. For some projects with high risk and high upside, 50 pst may instead be given. support, but with 25 pst. the success of the project’.» Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e2366	In the course of the debate, Mr Moxnes has put forward a proposal on behalf of Mr Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the conversion of NVE’s decision to extend the time limit for State-owned wind power plants.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e2383	The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e2402	In the course of the debate, Mr Myhrvold put forward a proposal on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to move more State jobs into the protection areas and thus to strengthen the professional environment and local communities where the protection values are.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e2419	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e2435	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e2454	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Gisle Meininger Saudland on behalf of the Progress Party, proposal No 3, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Greens There is a vote on proposal No. 3, by the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Storting to present a case on how reduced road traffic and a stronger effort on bicycles, corridors and public transport can help reduce the spread of microplastics in nature as a result of reduced emissions from tyre wear and tear.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e2480	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to a greater share of existing aid to specific measures aimed at maritime waste management.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to hold back aid to countries which are not committed to, and do not commit to, effective action against, marine pollution.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e2502	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e2550	The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e2599	It shall be counted against I, II and IV. The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e2613	It's said to be over III and V.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e2630	A total of 14 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Åsmund Aukrust on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment the proposals No 4 and 5, from Ole André Myhrvold on behalf of the Centre Party, the proposals No 6-8, by Arne Nävra, on behalf of the Left Party of Socialism and the Green Party in the Environment the proposals No 9-14, from Björn Moxnes on behalf of Red The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e2655	Alternatively, between the setting and the proposals No. 9-14, from Red. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to unravel and to come back with principles and tools on how to achieve spatial neutrality, which means that no more nature is to be destroyed. Where it is necessary to intervene in nature in the event of new expansions, at least an equivalent area by nature of the corresponding type and qualities in the neighbouring areas shall be restored.’;» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to step up the work of nature monitoring and to strengthen the organisation of the monitoring work, so as to ensure that the valuable nature of Norway is monitored by 2030.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: «The government asks the government to propose a construction ban on wetlands. Given the unique carbon storage effect of wetlands and their essential position as habitat for species, all unnecessary construction in these areas should be avoided. [[resulting in increased climate emissions in the event of degradation]] The construction ban may be introduced into the Law on Planning and Building, as it is currently a ban on construction in the coastal zone.» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to ensure that all new malls and department stores can only be established in areas already developed, not on unspoiled nature or agricultural land.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the establishment of quality assurance systems for monitoring firms and for independent monitoring of natural deficiencies in major development projects and land use changes.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that by 2025 national protection plans have been drawn up specifically to protect areas that are not currently adequately protected and with good representativeness, including cultural landscapes, forests, wetlands and coastal areas.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e2700	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6-8, by the Socialist Left and the Greens. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to investigate and come back with a proposal for a zero vision for loss of nature.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a construction ban on wetlands.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: «The Government is asked to establish quality assurance systems for firms carrying out nature-monitoring activities in the field of development matters.» Red has announced subsidized support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e2729	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. Four and five from the Center Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the priorities of natural management to be reinforced by more than so far the provision of technical advice and a comprehensive plan of specific proposals for priority species and selected habitat types, based on explicit criteria for the prioritisation of species and the selection of natural habitat types, prior to the further use of these instruments in the Natural Diversity Act.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to introduce a requirement to draw a consistent and clear distinction between knowledge producers and users of this knowledge and that all publicly funded mapping of natural diversity should be carried out in accordance with general standards of value neutrality and quality.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e2751	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3, from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen its efforts to identify all nature in Norway in order to safeguard the valuable nature.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals that are better than they are today to ensure arable land and important natural areas in the context of new development.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a review of the protection plans and for proposals to ensure the rapid protection of natural areas that do not currently have sufficient protection.’ Red has announced subsidized support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e2787	Four proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Tor André Johnsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Centre Party proposal No 2, by Tor André Johnsen on behalf of the Progress Party proposal No 3, from Tor André Johnsen on behalf of himself and Bård Hoksrud from the Progress Party proposal No 4, from Siv Mossleth on behalf of the Center Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the introduction of category B1 driving licence at the age of 16 during 2021. Consider similar training requirements as for driving licence category A1 for light motorcycle.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e2817	There is a vote on proposal No. Four from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the introduction of category B1 with age limit of 16 years’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e2857	Alternatively, I and proposal No. 3, from Bård Hoksrud and Tor André Johnsen from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose to wind up the peak load system in traffic with effect from 1 July 2021.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e2872	Alternatively, between III and proposal No. One from the Progress Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the combination of a category T driving licence and a category B driving licence is entitled to a category BE driving licence.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e2887	It shall be counted against II. The right, the centre party, the left, the Christian People's Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e2901	It is added over IV. The Progress Party and the Center Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e2935	The size then goes to voting on the case no. 1 to 9 and points 19 on today's map, agenda no. Eighty-eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e2947	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-5, by Nina Sandberg on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 6, by Marit Knutsdatter Strand on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 7, from Roy Steffensen on behalf of the Progress Party proposal No 8, from Marit Knutsdatter Strand on behalf of the Center Party There is a vote on proposal No. Eight, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 1-1 of the Law on Higher Education and Higher Education shall be replaced by the following: (e) provide higher education to meet the regional need for development of competences. § 1-3 new point (h) of the Law on Higher Education is replaced by the following: h) working with employment and business.»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e2983	There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to repeal the provision in the Regulation on admission to higher education for supplementary grades based on sex.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e2998	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–5, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the employees’ working conditions to be included in the new long-term research and higher education plan and to return to the United Kingdom with a concrete plan to reduce the proportion of temporary staff at universities and colleges jointly.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The government is asked to carry out an investigation into the working conditions and career development of researchers across the research sector.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to the Grand Duchy with an assessment of the need for, and, where appropriate, proposals for, austerity in education and research when creative or performing artistic competence is an essential element of the requirement of competence.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The fourth paragraph of Section 6-4 of the Law on Higher Education is replaced by the following: Recruitment is not allowed for more than one period as a post-doctoral doctor.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget by clarifying the second paragraphs of § 3-8 of the Law on Higher Education in relation to the use of digital lectures and what should be understood as public lectures.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e3952	It is votted over A II § 1-1 d. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e3966	It is voted over A II § 4-1 second paragraph. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e3980	Alternatively, the second paragraph of Section 4 of A VI is replaced by the second paragraph of proposal No. 6 from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The second paragraph of Section 4a of the Vocational Education Act is replaced by the following: In order to obtain accreditation for education of less than half a year, the vocational school must from the outset offer at least one accredited 60-point vocational school education or more in the same field of study from which graduates have been graduates for at least two years.’» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e3999	It is vottered over A I, the rest of II and VI and all the other Roman numerals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e4009	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e4020	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e4046	In the course of the debate, all nine proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 4-8, by Kent Gudmundsen on behalf of the Right, Left and Christian People's Party proposal No 9, from Roy Steffensen on behalf of the Progress Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4-8, from the Right, Left and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘Law 17 July 1998 No 61 on primary and secondary education is amended as follows: Paragraph 2-12, third paragraph, is replaced by the following: For primary private schools, §§ 2-2, 2-5 first, second, third and sixth paragraphs, 2-11, 8-2, 8-4, 9-1, 9-2, 9-3, 9-4, 9-5, 9-6, 9-7, Chapter 9 A, §§ 10-1, 10-2, 10-6, 10-6a, 10-9, 11-1, 11-2, 11-4, 11-7, 11-10, 13-3b, 13-5, 13-7a, 13-10, 14-1, 14-4, 15-3, 15-4 and 15-10. ‘... Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘New Sections 8 to 4 are replaced by the following: § 8-4 Distance learning Some of the training can be done without the teacher being present with the students as distance learning. Distance learning can be used if the municipality and county can prove that it is well founded and the training will be safe and educationally defended. Distance learning must be carried out in such a way that students and teachers can communicate effectively with technical means. The fact that there must be good reasons for conducting the training as distance learning means that the benefits for students must be greater than the disadvantages of conducting the training in this way. Benefits may include the possibility of providing courses that would otherwise not be possible, and the possibility of better level-based adaptation. In assessing whether it will be safe and educationally justified to provide part of the training as distance learning, consideration shall be given, among other things, to the possibility for students of learning, development, well-being and social cohesion. Consideration shall also be given to the necessity and competence of the school to provide such training. The need for effective communication between pupils and teachers means that students must have a corresponding opportunity for professional assistance and follow-up as if the teacher were physically present. In addition, the teacher must have the corresponding ability to provide training, to make assessments and to record any absences. The technical solutions used must facilitate real-time or short-time communication. As a general rule, students are to receive distance education at school. A student at primary school may receive distance learning elsewhere than at school in exceptional cases. A student in secondary school may receive distance education in places other than the school in exceptional circumstances or by agreement with the principal. The Ministry may prescribe distance learning, including additional limitations or distance learning requirements.’;» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘In Law No 4 July 2003 84 on independent schools are amended as follows: Paragraphs 1-2, third paragraph shall be replaced by the following: Laws do not apply to the purchase of training services except for the purchase of training services in the course of distance learning in accordance with Sections 3-4c.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘New Sections 3-4c are replaced by the following: § 3-4c Distance learning Some of the training can be done without the teacher being present with the students as distance learning. Distance learning may be used if the school board can prove that it is well founded and the training will be safe and educationally defended. Distance learning must be carried out in such a way that students and teachers can communicate effectively with technical means. The fact that there must be good reasons for conducting the training as distance learning means that the benefits for students must be greater than the disadvantages of conducting the training in this way. Benefits may include the possibility of providing courses that would otherwise not be possible, and the possibility of better level-based adaptation. In assessing whether it will be safe and educationally justified to provide part of the training as distance learning, consideration shall be given, among other things, to the possibility for students of learning, development, well-being and social cohesion. Consideration shall also be given to the necessity and competence of the school to provide such training. The need for effective communication between pupils and teachers means that students must have a corresponding opportunity for professional assistance and follow-up as if the teacher were physically present. In addition, the teacher must have the corresponding ability to provide training, to make assessments and to record any absences. The technical solutions used must facilitate real-time or short-time communication. As a general rule, students are to receive distance education at school. A student at primary school may receive distance learning elsewhere than at school in exceptional cases. A student in secondary school may receive distance education in places other than the school in exceptional circumstances or by agreement with the principal. The Ministry may prescribe distance learning, including additional limitations or distance learning requirements. The Ministry may also provide for reporting and documentation on the use of distance learning.’;» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘Section 6A-7 is replaced by the following: § 6A-7 Other accounts The following provisions of this Act shall apply as far as they are suitable for schools under this Chapter: (a) § 1-2 on the work area b) § 2-2 on requirements for school activities, with the exception of the third paragraph. If a school after this chapter has less than 10 students three years of schooling in conjunction, the approval shall be cancelled; c) § 2-4 on requirements for school facilities and the school environment (d) § 3-3, third paragraph, on schooling e) § 3-4 on the organisation of pupils in classes or basic groups f) § 3-4a on adapted training (g) § 3-4c on distance learning (h) § 3-9 on Rules of Procedure i) § 3-15 on the prohibition of the use of garments covering in whole or in part the face j) § 4-1 on leadership k) § 5-1 on the Board of Directors, with the exception of points (a) and (c) (l) § 5-2 on the tasks of the Management Board, with the exception of the letters (a) and (e) m) § 5-3 on pupil councils, with the exception of the first and second sentences of the first subparagraph n) § 7-1 on budget, accounting and reporting (o) § 7-2 on supervision, etc. p) § 7-2a on possible reaction forms, with the exception of the fourth paragraph. (q) § 7-2b on quarantine (r) § 7-3 (s) § 7-9, first and fifth paragraphs, concerning the processing of personal data.»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e4221	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘Law 17 July 1998 No 61 on primary and secondary education, the last sentence of the second paragraph of Section 15-10 is replaced by the following: The student’s right to information and free speech must be respected.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘In Law No 4 July 2003 84 in the case of separate schools, the second sentence of the second paragraph of Section 7-9 shall be replaced by the following: The student’s right to information and free speech must be respected.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘In Law No 17 June 2005 in the case of kindergartens, the last sentence of the second paragraph of Section 47a is replaced by the following: The child’s right to information and free speech must be respected.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e4256	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 4 July 2003 84 on independent schools are amended as follows: Paragraphs 1-2, third paragraph shall be replaced by the following: Laws do not apply to distance teaching and the purchase of training services other than distance learning which are permitted in public schools. The Ministry may provide for the reporting and documentation of distance learning. Paragraph 6A-7 is replaced by the following: § 6A-7 Other accounts The following provisions of this Act shall apply as far as they are suitable for schools under this Chapter: (a) § 1-2 on the work area b) § 2-2 on requirements for school activities, with the exception of the third paragraph. If a school after this chapter has less than 10 students three years of schooling in conjunction, the approval shall be cancelled; c) § 2-4 on requirements for school facilities and the school environment (d) § 3-3, third paragraph, on schooling e) § 3-4 on the organisation of pupils in classes or basic groups f) § 3-4a on adapted training (g) § 3-9 on Rules of Procedure h) § 3-15 on the prohibition of the use of garments covering in whole or in part the face i) § 4-1 on leasing j) § 5-1 on the Board of Directors, with the exception of the letters (a) and (c) k) § 5-2 on the tasks of the Management Board, with the exception of the letters a and e (l) § 5-3 on pupil councils, with the exception of the first and second sentences of the first subparagraph m) § 7-1 on budget, accounting and reporting (n) § 7-2 on supervision, etc. o) § 7-2a on possible reaction forms, with the exception of the fourth paragraph. (p) § 7-2b on quarantine (q) § 7-3 (r) § 7-9, first and fifth paragraphs, concerning the processing of personal data.» The parties to the Government have notified subsidized the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e4556	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e4567	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e4572	Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e4590	It's going to wrestle over you.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e4600	It shall be counted against II. The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e4621	During the debate Kjersti Toppe has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote the covid-19 regulation on quarantine hotels as a legislative proposal, in order to enable the Stortinge to take a decision on these provisions in line with the requirements of the Code on Disease Protection and the Emergency Act.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e4677	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e4687	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e4699	During the debate Kjersti Toppe has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to promote the covid-19 provisions of the regulation on isolation and the quarantine for legislative proposals, so that the Storting can take a decision on these provisions in line with the requirements of the Code on Disease Protection and the Emergency Act.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e4716	The Committee had decided to refer the following decisions to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e4768	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e4778	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e4790	All in all, eleven proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. That is the proposal No. 1-11, from Tuva Moflag on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that the system Professionals at work becomes a national offer to increase the training of health professionals and that concrete national targets are set for the number to be implemented over a period of time.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the extension of the scheme Men in health to include both women and men in the target group who receive benefits from Nav in order to increase the training of health professionals.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that participants in the schemes Menn in Health and Professionals at work are provided with adequate Norwegian training.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to complete and introduce a Y-route for health professionals, a further training for health professionals who want to become nurses.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government to establish, through cooperation with the KS and employees’ organisations, a national programme for increased basic staffing in the health and care services. The Programme must contain concrete measures to contribute to locally anchored projects for increased basic staffing and less temporary work.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit a plan to extend the provision of decentralised nursing training.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to change the funding category of nursing training so that it better reflects actual expenditure.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that newly-trained nurses in the municipal health service are offered mentoring and practical support.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to secure the municipalities a framework to facilitate good practice in the municipal health service and to provide the municipalities with an obligation to participate in the training of health professionals.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking for government support for recruitment projects for municipal psychologists to ensure specialisation courses and training positions for psychologists in the municipalities and to contribute to strong professional environments.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the protection of psychologists to increase the practice of community health services during the study.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e4883	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Nicholas Wilkinson, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 4 and 5, by Nicholas Wilkinson, on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No 6, from Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is calling for a more democratic hospital structure in which hospitals are owned by the State and regional health boards are set up with political representation from the county council of the regions and a minority of hospital-appointed health professionals, elected union representatives and elected representatives from the patient organisations.’ The Group of the Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e4912	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4 and 5 from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a large-scale notification of values for Norwegian healthcare, in order to ensure a professional and value-driven healthcare service that ensures health care preparedness and equivalent healthcare to all regardless of background, as well as a health service that is not managed according to business-economy principles.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a case to be brought in by the government of the specialist health services, where hospitals are governed by a management model.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e4951	Alternatively, between the setting and the proposals No. 1-3 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the promotion of a national strategy to address social health inequalities.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for health prostheses to be strengthened in hospitals and for health bureaucracy to be reduced together with the levels of control and management, which are replaced by local management.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government requests that food supply, cleaning and IT functions be part of the hospital’s core activities and are not put on the market in order to avoid deterioration in quality, hygiene and safety.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e4986	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, by Tor André Johnsen on behalf of the Advancement Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose amendments to the alcohol law so that people over the age of 16 can sit in the cash register in grocery stores and expedite the entire range of products sold in stores, including alcoholic beverages and groups 1 and 2 of alcoholic beverages.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose amendments to the Tobacco Injury Act to allow people over 16 years of age to sit in the cash register in grocery stores and to expedite the entire range of products sold in stores, including tobacco products.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5024	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Tuva Moflag on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that coordination services for crime prevention are established in all health establishments [[FLS]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up an action plan for the prevention of falls and the prevention of fractures in leg driving.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5048	The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5067	Four proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Åsunn Lyngedal on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2-4, from Bengt Rune Strifeldt on behalf of the Progress Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2–4, from the Party of Advancement, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government requests the immediate follow-up of the request Decision 670 with a temporary arrangement for 2021 and 2022 ensuring guarantees in the Travel Guarantee Fund for all package tour operators operating in Norway, irrespective of their size.’ [[2020-2021]] Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The government asks the Government to extend the State guarantee scheme presented in Prop. 107 S to include all package tour operators, irrespective of the size, turnover and number of employees in the establishment.» [[2020-2021]] Proposal No. 4 sounds: «The government asks the Government to extend the State guarantee scheme outlined in Prop. 107 S to apply to all package tour operators operating in Norway, using a step-step model where the country takes over 75 pst. [[2020-2021]] of the guarantee liability of SMEs and 50 pst. of the guarantee liability of the major package tour operators.’;» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5105	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to assess the effect of the risk relief scheme on guarantees to the Travel Guarantee Fund and the situation of businesses during September 2021.’ All other parties have indicated their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5261	Let's go to case No. 19, which is recorded.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5304	The Progress Party is engaged in Norwegian business, including Norwegian tourism. That is why we want a comprehensive plan and measures to strengthen Norwegian business. Norwegian business, and in particular Norwegian travel life, do not need new assessments and plans, which the representative of Aasland talks about so much. They need concrete measures. The Progress Party would strengthen the guarantee relief for small and medium-sized travel businesses, but it would not do so for the Workers' Party. It was a purely concrete measure. The representative of Aasland claims that we only work for the major travel operators – we work for all travel operators. The major travel operators are also important to the small travel businesses around the country. The fact that the Progress Party chooses not to support these proposals, which involves an evaluation and preparation of new plans, should not be difficult for the representative of Aasland to understand. The Progress Party wants concrete action, unfortunately it does not want the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5313	To promote concrete action: Travel life 21 is, of course, concrete action that is sought by industry and is important for industry. Making plans for how to restart and get your travel life back are concrete measures, but the Progress Party chooses not to do so, and they choose not to deal with the things that are of great importance to travel as well. I'm just checking it out.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5318	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5335	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5342	I would like to start by thanking the Cooperation Committee on the matter, and then I would like to address the two proposals where the Central Party is a co-sponsor. It is a well-known issue raised in the draft representative. I think it is right and proper that the Progress Party raises this issue, because the answer from the government and the majority in Stortinget is a fundamental error. This is about an equal treatment for those who own their own means of operation, in this case buses, and those who rent them. Today, the situation is that if a tenant receives compensation, but if one has invested in a more traditional and solid way in the form of an own means of operation itself, it does not receive support and compensation from the state. It is this injustice that is addressed in this proposal for a representative, and which unfortunately a majority in the Stortinget are in favour. What's hard to understand is the Council of State's reason for doing this. It seems that the view of the corona compensation should be to prevent companies from going bankrupt. The vision should be to help businesses through this time. It's actually not good to say that as long as it goes on the equity of companies, as long as it doesn't go bankrupt, one has done his job. It writes the Council of State in its answer, that there was a danger of giving money to «solid companies with a lower risk of bankruptcy». And it's also pointed out that just including the tourist industry would be'very unfair', as the council writes, for other industries. But we in the Center Party have picked up this issue for all the professionals. This proposal also includes industries other than the tourism industry. For this reason, we also support the proposal made by the Progress Party that this industry and the taxi industry be treated in a non-discriminatory way and those who hire and lease vehicles. At the end of the day, this is about taking care of the tourist industry, taking care of the taxi industry, taking care of the transport industry, which is an important district industry and an important part of our preparedness, and which has significant employment. That's what these proposals are about, and that's what the government party and the Labour Party are opposed to in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5357	The representative Geir Pollestad has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5362	What we've definitely been working on most in Stortinget for the past year has been saving viable businesses through the crisis we're now facing. For most people, it's going to go well, but for some people, unfortunately, it won't, even if they made money before the corona occurred. For some of these, there may be regular injustices in the compensation schemes. The issue we are dealing with now is: why is it logical that a person who leases or hires a tourbus can cover his costs for it, while a person who owns the tourbus should not have any of his own costs covered. This we have tried to drill through the last year, but unfortunately for the deaf ears of the government, despite the fact that non-discrimination has been one of the most important principles of the compensation scheme from it. It has become increasingly clear that it is the Ministry of Finance that has been in charge of these matters, not the Ministry of Business, unfortunately. It is also not the first time the Stortinget has made proposals in this street. On 19 January we discussed a similar, but more general, proposal. It was not followed up by the government, on the grounds that it could result in an increase in the aid granted to some solid entities with a low risk of bankruptcy. So the government is more concerned that some single actors can get a few dollars more than they deserve than saving industries that have broken their backs. The tourism industry is a diverse industry with around 500 small and large enterprises, with a turnover of less than 3 billion. NOK and at the base of 3000 employees. Some people might think that it's small, and that it's just -- in quotes -- about these 2,700 employees, but it doesn't. Turbuses function in many ways as a catalyst for other commercial activities, especially in travel. Many hotels, cruise ships and tourist attractions depend entirely on the tourist buses and the tourists who come with them. Since the proposal was promoted, examples of this unfairness have flowed from other operators in the transport sector. What started with the buses now also includes the car industry and the taxi industry – all with the same problem: they are punished for owning what generates their income, versus those who rent or lease. Unfortunately, it does not seem that the proposals that are being promoted by us will have a majority. That responsibility must be shared by the Workers' Party and the Government's parties. I hope representatives of the coaches, the rental cars and the taxi industry will remember that. These parties today say that it is quite ok to continue to discriminate against owned operating resources and leased operating resources. That's too bad. With that, I take up the proposal that the Progress Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5377	The representative Sivert Bjørnstad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5382	There is no doubt that the general system of compensation established is bad for business. It is particularly bad for small and medium-sized enterprises. And it is particularly bad for those businesses that are shut down directly or indirectly through either local or national measures of infection. Therefore, since last autumn, the Workers' Party has proposed several times a turnover-based grant scheme, a system that is very easy to manage and which initially supports the SME segment in a clear and simple way. The proposal we have put forward, which is being discussed in Stortinget, means that a single company can get 20 pst. the turnover of aid in terms of turnover in the corresponding month of 2019, i.e. before covid. But the Progress Party will not vote for it. They haven't supported it in any way. But it would give you e.g. a tourist company much greater financial contribution than the proposal that the Progress Party now has, in which there is really not so much money. It would also support the taxi industry much better than the Progress Party proposes, and the car rental market better than the Progress Party proposes. For example, a taxi driver who had a turnover of DKK 100000 in March 2019 versus March this year, as a result of that proposal, would have paid NOK 20 000 in grants due to the market failure. But how much would he get if the proposals of the Advancement Party were adopted? Yes, he would have a share of the leasing costs covered – much less, most likely less than NOK 6000 – NOK 7000 for a month. That is the reality. So saying that the Workers' Party is not occupied with this type of industries and this type of business is going to be totally wrong. We can't make one arrangement for each industry that's affected by the situation we're in. Therefore, we must have general arrangements that are making and that are making better than what has been agreed in the Storing. The Workers' Party has therefore proposed such a turnover-based grant scheme, plus a valve scheme, which, insofar as the Advance Party has also voted in favour of it in the past – a state scheme that they have gone away from and transferred to a municipal scheme that does not strike business in the same way. So here's every reason to think about what you can do in the future, before the Storting takes a vacation, not least with regard to the sales-based grant scheme proposed by the Workers' Party, which will take the industries that the Progress Party is now promoting, in a better way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5393	I have a very strong understanding that many companies and employees are in a difficult situation and have been for a long time. This applies not least to operators in the tourism industry. The question of non-discrimination between those who own operating assets and those who hire them has been carefully assessed a number of times in the past. Interest payable and renting of operating assets are part of the basis for compensation, and the government has repeatedly justified the Storting why depreciation and repayment of loans do not. The purpose of the compensation scheme is to compensate for payable, fixed, unavoidable costs and thus reduce the risk of bankruptcy. Non-depreciable costs, such as depreciation, do not burden the liquidity of the enterprise and will, to a lesser extent, increase the risk of bankruptcy. Providing cash support for depreciation will turn the arrangement against loss coverage for the entity’s shareholders. In addition, it would increase the aid granted to solid entities with a lower risk of bankruptcy. A practice in which other equal enterprises receive equal support, irrespective of liquidity needs, thus goes against the purpose of the scheme. Enterprises owning own resources that have financed the operating funds with loans often pay off and interest on the loan. There are cases where leases are similar to debt financing and in the compensation scheme these contracts are treated in the same way as other leases and leases, while the repayment of loans does not provide a basis for aid. Attempts to correct this difference by increasing the aid to those who have financed the loan have some unfortunate features. As I have said, this has been discussed earlier in the motion for a resolution of the European Parliament. Other possible solutions have also been discussed in writing in response to questions from Stortinget. A special rule for the tourism industry will not only complicate the scheme and create new distortions within the tourism industry, but also appear unfair to other industries and industries in similar situations. Any changes to the entire scheme will result in major regulatory changes and in practice a significant conversion. The compensation scheme is intended to take a broad approach, with a level playing field for all industries, industries and enterprises, where the grant is measured according to objective criteria. There has been an important scheme for business so far in the pandemic and will continue to be so, but it is not the only scheme for business. Gradually, the money paid through municipalities has been very important for travel.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5408	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5413	I'm talking about the government's argumentation and the foundation, and then I'm saying with a very strong sense that it wasn't exactly the words she used when she argued in the government conference about how this system was supposed to be, because here it seems to be knockouts to the Treasury. The price for it is the Norwegian company that has to tolerate, in the form that those who may have organised themselves so conservatively that they, for example, have to. own buses they run around, poorer ones come out supportively. If one thinks two companies that are next to each other, where one owns five buses, the other leaser five buses, and where the tourists and missions are away from both: is it fair that the one gets much more support than the other?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5420	It is tempting to put the question back again, where one has one bus company, another company operating in another segment of travel life, and one suddenly receives support for the costs of deduction, while the other is not going to get it. The compensation scheme is a system that is in no way perfect. We've never said that it is. But correcting a bias can also create new biases. We have chosen to try to correct any imbalance also through this municipal system, this valve system, as we have called it, precisely so that the municipalities, who know their own business best, can target support, for example. to bus companies, if needed locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5428	We can play the practice that the Council of State asks questions to the Stortinget – I will answer, I will answer. The centre party has sought equal treatment for all industries. It's a paradox that there's a first such scheme for all the industry, and then there's a proposal from the Progress Party where a turbus is to be included, and that council has to offer is not for the whole bus, it's the valve that's to be supported in this. That's what's the basic problem here, that one doesn't see the discrimination. Then my question is, what is the purpose of the government with the compensation scheme? Is it covering the loss of a sufferer as a result of the corona pandemic, and having a fair distribution of the loss cover, or is it preventing companies from going bankrupt?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5435	Never in this pandemic have we claimed that we can make businesses harmless as a result of the pandemic, which not only affects us, but the whole world. It has always been clear to most that the state is taking one part, but that businesses themselves must also take a large part of the challenges that are now emerging economically. For the government, this has been about getting industries, industries and businesses out on the other side of the pandemic. Now, fortunately, we see some kind of light at the end of the tunnel, but there are still heavy times ahead of us, and especially for travel life, which has worn for a long time, and which gets a little bit such a slow start again. Just because we see that the broad, large compensation scheme is not able to target support for all companies, we have now made this municipal scheme quite large gradually, and many have benefited greatly from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5442	I hear what's being said, but I don't quite understand why it's right for those who have built up in a way, companies that have built up, companies that have more capital on books, companies that may have run for a long time and can afford to buy the means and own them, to pay a larger share. Everyone realizes that the companies will lose something on the pandemic, but what is just right about the companies that have built up, that have equity, paying a larger share than those that may have been newly started, loan-based, lease-based, etc.? I'm a little tired of fully understanding what is the Council's foundation. Can it really be that this is a question of saving money, so don't spend so much money on crisis management? There is no doubt that the scheme we are proposing would have been somewhat more expensive to the state, but at the other end we had more resilient businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5449	I have explained several times to the Storting about the challenges – and insofar as the costs – related to making changes to the compensation scheme that are to equalise leasing costs and ownership. This compensation mechanism is a mechanism that has been particularly important for small and medium-sized enterprises, but it is a broad scheme and it does not all. That's why we have to put arrangements on top of each other. Bus companies that own their own operating resources can also receive support through, for example: the municipal scheme. Just in line with those who started up and therefore do not have a basis for comparison, and in this way outside the compensation scheme, they have also received and continue to have the opportunity to receive support, for example. through the municipal scheme. We can't just look at the arrangement in isolation, we have to look at the total of the corona support that is being given.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5456	It's amazing to hear the Council of State, both in their speeches from the pulpit and in the lineword shift here now with Pollestad, say and the outcasts that it's very unfortunate to adopt this, because it will lead to differences between branches of the compensation scheme. The whole reason for this proposal is that the government has not followed up a decision in Stortinget from 19 January to include the costs of ownership and to equate them with the leasing and rental costs. That is the whole reason why this proposal comes – that is because the government has not followed up the Storting decision. And then the question is quite simply: wouldn't all of this have been resolved if only the government had followed up the decision of the Great Britain from 19 January? Would this debate not have been completely unnecessary?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5461	After all, I also register what Storting plans to do in this case. I believe that the government has followed up well. We have made thorough assessments of both this and other things that Stortinget has asked for, and we have submitted our assessments to Stortinget. There are some obvious benefits of doing that, but there are also some obvious conclusions of doing it this way. So it's true that yes, we're also dealing with different industries today, for example. we provide lost stocks of operational equipment that expire on date, but not for clothing. The size and government have from time to time taken action that can be seen to be unfair. But we have explained this thoroughly on several occasions, and I believe that the system we now have is very good – but then combined with a municipal system that makes that, among other things. bus companies can receive more support under this scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5468	It does not help that the Minister of Industry believes that the scheme is very good. If you go and talk to the owners of buses, the owners of taxis, the owners of car rental companies, then the answer will be quite different. So of course the answer can be that be so good, put yourself in the back row in the municipal order. Once again, there is a shortage of funds, and municipal politicians too have to give priority to those who have been hit hardest. Those who are the hardest hit are the travel lives and the outdoors, they're not the coaches. They come as number two or three, and then they end up at the back of the line. The council said there were some obvious downsides by creating such a scheme in the compensation scheme. Then I wonder, what are the obvious sides down? If it's technical around it, the whole reason for going from the tax base to the Brønnøysund registers was that it would be so much more flexible, that it was fully possible to add that type of component to the scheme. If it's not, what are the other obvious downsides by adding this?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5483	I just have to make it clear that the reason for moving it from the tax rate to Brønnøysund was not that we should be able to add more components – it is quite possible to do so – but simply that the tax rate did not see itself able to implement that scheme anymore. We had to do something about the system itself, so we've taken a lot of action. Now we have the control in advance through the accountant instead of the fact that this is how the tax rate is now, by checking previous payments. As I say, there are some advantages, and there are some disadvantages. If we're going to include some industries, it's obviously unfair for those industries that are not included. This could affect whether you have high depreciation rates or whether you have low depreciation rates. One thing is technical. This is a total that we have explained on several occasions. But I disagree with the representative, who does not say that the municipal system can also be important for this industry. Because the municipal system has just become very large gradually. Travel life has been a priority for many, and these – the small and medium-sized tourist companies out there – are among those who can also get money from this municipal scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5492	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5499	Norwegian tourism is made up of about 500 small and large enterprises, with an annual turnover of about 2.8 billion. NOK and employment kits for about 2 700 people. In addition, there is a very large number of people employed in the taxi industry. Enterprises are mostly private, often family-owned, and tend to have a place of residence in District Norway. Norwegian tourist buses are important for all tourism in Norway – transport from hotel to hotel, from city to city, from city to country and excursions for cruise ships. The tourism industry is one of the industries that has clearly pointed out and made visible the gaps in the compensation mechanism relating to the differences between owning and leasing their own assets. On a principle basis, it is very wrong to discriminate between seemingly equal companies, where only the form of financing for the assets is the difference. Some business owners choose to use equity and their own savings to buy operating assets, and this can often make sense in the long term. Here we have new concrete measures to improve Norwegian business life, to improve framework conditions and to ensure equal treatment – concrete measures that the Workers' Party will not support, but rather choose to be government support wheels. The representative of Aasland defended it in his speech that there will be very low compensation for the economic operators. Then it may be even more surprising that the Workers' Party will not support these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5509	This with initially equalising the leasing costs and the own costs of the compensation scheme, we agreed to support 19 January, but that was the case with all of them. Now it has become that it is about doing – let's say – meet with a Progress Party representative who wants to make a proposal specifically for the industry in which you are engaged and who then promotes a proposal in the Stortinget. Why does one not then once again promote the idea of making it whole, so that it applies to everyone, not just individual industries, so that one equals all industries? Is there any good reason for that? That's what the Progress Party could say. Why should a specific do this for the tourist industry, the taxi industry and the rental cars? Why not do it in general, which was the starting point in January? I fully agree with the criticism that is being raised against the government here, that one has not responded to it as a majority in Stortinget was very clear on 19 January. But instead of going further on that track, we have said that we want to have a turnover-based grant scheme – a turnover-based grant scheme that makes the smallest enterprises much better, those that are currently not covered at all by the general compensation scheme adopted in the Storting. This does not mean that we do not take into account the buses or taxi industry or other areas of Norwegian business that are struggling with a lack of attention due, among other things, to the lack of attention. this inequality and injustice of the compensation system. So then we've chosen to follow up on it. Then, when it comes to voting later in the summer, the Progress Party can vote for it. So they could have made sure that the buses, the taxi industry and a number of the other small businesses also get a better support scheme than they have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5518	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5535	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5542	Our biggest mainland industry in the number of jobs is the food industry. There are as many as every five industrial workers who work in the production of food and drink – a large number of workers who do a vital job both for value creation and for it to live in people throughout our country. For this is an industry that is scattered throughout our country, in both the countryside and the city, and is based on the primary industries of agriculture, fisheries and aquaculture. In the Business Committee, we have some important points that the entire Committee is behind. It is that we now have to make sure that we increase the value creation in the food industry as part of increasing production on the mainland and thus also ensuring that we have value creation that we can survive when oil and gas revenues go down. As the Business Committee writes, last year there was a trade deficit for mainland Norway of 312 billion. kr. Taking care of and strengthening the food industry is an important contribution to ensuring the welfare state's income in the coming years. Food industry and food production are also much more than just crowns and ears, because, as the Committee points out, this is a matter of public health and safety. Not only has there been a virus in the last year, there have also been more people in our country who have been hospitalized because of salmonella infection. Among other things, this infection has: entered on kitchen benches and in refrigerators via imported meat from Germany. So having control over self-production, people who both have high-quality raw materials and know health and safety in production, is also a matter of yours and my safety. So turn to the Labour Party's proposal and look at the matter of what we're going to do, because I'm now addressing a series of ten proposals that we're promoting together with the Centre Party and SV, including a concrete proposal to ensure the recruitment of labour. We want to have arrangements that guarantee shipping subsidies, so that we can have this great industry decentralised, spread across our country, and we point to, among other things. the possibility of using public procurement as a smart way to ensure that people receive top-quality food and drink while choosing Norwegian products. This could be done, for example, by: are carried out in the school fruit scheme and in the school milk scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5553	The representative of Nils Kristen Sandrøen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5558	Agriculture, fisheries and aquaculture produce amazing raw materials. The food industry is responsible for the further processing of this raw material into a product for both domestic consumption and exports. It's a fantastic industry, and the Center Party wants more of this industry. We want a policy that makes our fish more workable, to transform our meat, to produce Norwegian, safe food for the Norwegian population. The central party is wondering a little bit about the government party that says, "No, we don't want this." We do not want to go into direct policy in this area. It's very strange, because when it comes to the oil industry, there's a big message of yours. When it comes to the maritime industry, it has its own message. When it comes to forest policy, you have to have your own programming message and your own policy. In areas by region, one has it. But when it comes to the food industry, which is about jobs, industrial workplaces, spread around the country, and there is no doubt that there is a potential for more, the government party and the Progress Party say: No, we don't. Why won't they? When the Center Party fights for Norwegian food, we often meet that we are too protective. But we just want to take care of the preparedness in Norway. We want to use the whole country. That's what we're fighting for, but we're going to meet with these battle words. We're going to have to listen to the EU, we're going to have to be good in Brussels, we're going to have to open up a little more to get more goods. But what do we say when we say, OK, we can import 1,000 more tons of something? Then we say we don't need so many jobs in Norway. We're willing to give them up for some reason. We want something cheaper. Salmonella is not so dangerous in that meat – it's cheaper. We can import it. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. We want to produce it in Norway, we want to process it in Norway. We want to strengthen the Norwegian food industry. And the ten proposals we have here are a good start to strengthen the food industry, to increase value creation in Norway, to improve preparedness in Norway. And it's so disappointing when the majority of the Storting doesn't want you not to have ambitions, that you don't want one to see the possibilities, that you can't enjoy this, because it's so exciting, and we have such great abilities. Other countries do this. They want to bet, and they want to have a concrete policy. But in Norway, there's some central party stuff, some protectionist stuff, some nislue stuff. That's what I think is very bad. And that's why we need a political shift in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5569	It's probably time to sum up eight years for the food industry. It has been a time when, in particular, the large chains, as part of the value chain for the food industry, have strengthened their position and weakened Norwegian suppliers and increased imports. We have been through the extension of the Article 19 negotiations, which means that we have imported more and more from abroad and weighed Norwegian production. Every day gardening is built in Norway at a high rate, which is also a consequence of this. At sea we see how an increasingly large part of the raw material that is not produced in Norway, but is industrialized in other parts of the world. In the food field, by and large, it has been eight lost years. They haven't been lost, but it's gone down. The possibilities have been weakened – local transportation, of which we have all been so proud. A little over 20 years ago, almost only a goat cheese could get as special local food. Today we are winning international competition in more and more areas. We can't taste the difference between French cheeses and Norwegian cheeses. The Norwegians sometimes also beat the French, which is a result of a policy-determined early 2000s effort, which has had a direct impact on the development of new products in a country that has quite amazing pastures and natural conditions to produce unlikely products for both domestic and foreign exports. At sea, we have the same ability to build up industries that can really point the direction of both food preparedness, export and national pride and such – waving the Norwegian flag. These possibilities have no use for them. One has only continued along the autostrada, which adds to more and more imports, degradation in Norway and a lost capacity to build up a food industry. It's kind of dependent on how you calculate it, but somehow the food industry is Norway's second largest export industry. It's one of the absolutely largest industries, which employs the absolute most. It's an important nutrient field no matter how you turn and turn on it. No matter what you are interested in in business policy, you will always fall over it. In the future, this industry will become even more important, because it is working with something as crucial as biological resources. And at a time when you're going to replace everything that's not renewable in different industrial processes, with something that's renewable, one's going on with the biological. So in the future, that industry has to become even more important, and it's a shame that the government has such a relaxed relationship with evolution – and rather, on the contrary, the arrow now points downwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5582	It was with interest I listened to the last two posts. It was almost so one could believe that the representative Knag Fylkesnes, and not least the speaker before him, has not been around the country for the last 20-25 years, for precisely in what has happened in the food industry, and not least among the local actors around, this is the diversity that the representative Knag Fylkesnes calls for. I'm so lucky that I have an area around me that's been running this for quite many years, for example, Gangstad in India, which has some amazing oysters. There are also oysters in the West, with Tingvoll and others, developed through diversity and, of course, having a strong food industry, which has also been willing to change over time. Many have protested when they have chosen to change their mind, such as: in the Ott region and several, but this has been absolutely necessary, the industry and its owners have pointed out. No industry in recent times has been willing to change as quickly as the Norwegian food industry. It's joyous, and it's also given a diversity. Local entrepreneurs have picked up their gloves and delivered quality products, both cheese and meat and other things, which means that we just have that diversity. The left is concerned with good health and food production, as well as the importance of industrial policy, not least in the future. In industrial policy in the future, it is important to look at the kind of conversion we are going to have when we are just doing the green shift, where agriculture and the food industry are becoming even more important in the future. But then it is also important that we have an industrial policy that facilitates the creation of value added and growth in the private sector. We must have profitable jobs in a transformation of Norwegian business that must provide sustainability in the green direction, and not just a one-sided direction, but a direction that points to diversity. Because just diversity is the success factor in the food industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5593	The government’s overall policy objectives for industry are the greatest possible total value creation in the Norwegian economy within a sustainable framework. To achieve this goal, many industries need to contribute. We must have a business with good adaptability, where natural resources, labour and capital are used where they create the greatest value. It is therefore not appropriate to set specific targets for exact employment or value creation in individual industries. The food industry is doing well. The industry's share of employment and value added in industry has increased over time. This suggests that the overall industrial policy, agricultural policy and fisheries and maritime food policy of the government function well vis-à-vis the industry. Good access to capital and the government's commitment to food-promoting tax relief, simplification, industrial R & D and export promotion are crucial for the food industry and for a business in continuous transition. We have focused on competence and lifelong learning, and there is a separate tripartite sectoral programme for the food industry, which aims to develop skills in line with the needs of the industry. We have several shipping subsidy schemes that contribute to a geographically dispersed food industry; there are a number of brand schemes that provide information and promote Norwegian food products, and the government will build on them. Furthermore, the placing on the border trade package of the State budget for 2021 could help to reduce trade leakage and benefit the Norwegian food industry. We have a strong food industry that produces safe food and drink. The good foundation that has been created is to build on so that the food industry, together with the rest of the industry, can develop and create great values in the future. At the same time, we should not look at the food industry in isolation but focus on policies that contribute to maximum value creation and growth in the private sector as a whole. Through good framework conditions and by promoting well-functioning markets and healthy competition, the government facilitates the wide range of industries, including the food industry, to seize opportunities for value creation and growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5606	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5611	When I listened to the Minister of Industry's party colleague Skjelstad, I thought that cheese could get honorary names like old and mold, but politics should be healthy and forward-looking. It should be fresh and forward-looking in reality, and that is what is missing here. Because here we have ten good suggestions, and then the answer is: No, we pick an old, market-liberalist line and we vote down the entire line. That's very sad, because as Prime Minister Erna Solberg has said a number of times, we're going to convert the economy. In more popular terms, this means that we will simply get many jobs to live on from the renewable natural resources and not be so dependent on just selling oil and gas as we are today. After all, there has been an increasing deficit for every year. Now we're down to 312 billion. kr in deficit, and there is a deficit corresponding to the budget of several hundred municipalities. Why do the parties vote against good proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5619	I think the representative of Skkelstad had a very good post, because he described what I think many people are experiencing in his everyday life. They feel that there are now many more exciting local variations in the products available to them. There has been a great deal of development in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5623	We see that for the food industry as a whole, things are going well, and that just indicates that the policy that the representative refers to in a little negative order actually works. The government's commitment to research and development works. The effort the government has made for simplification works, and the efforts the government has made to reduce taxes and taxes work. So here's an offensive and forward-looking policy that underpins the development of this industry and other industries can seize the opportunity to grow in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5627	Another thing that ‘works’, or at least has consequences, is that if we sell away the import protection we have in Norway today. One of the things that came out of the regional meeting of just the Left was that one should look at weakening import protection in Norway. It is also the same policy that the Progress Party has, as we know, is a liberal people's party, as they call themselves seas. The question is: why is there so much talk between all parties about food — and preferably local food — and the policy that is put into practice? That's what I really want an answer to, and I still don't get any proper response to. It is not that one in five industrial workers in Norway have been given a job by chance. This is due to policies that are built up many, many decades back in time, and the food industry in Norway is actually larger in sum than the Swedish, seas if there are far more people living in Sweden. Is import protection not important?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5634	There are some differences in the policies of the Left and the Progressive Party, but there are no differences in party speeches and practical policies. It is true, as the representative says, that Norwegian food industry is doing well, and Norwegian food industry has also been doing well in the last eight years, as the four bourgeois parties have had their hands on the wheel. So it's obvious that politics works. At least the current policy works very well for the food industry. Import protection – yes, it is mentioned in the Granavolden Declaration. It is important in particular for the primary industry of agriculture. Here, primary industries have a slightly different starting point. For fisheries and seafood it is about exporting. It is about free trade and zero duty, while on the agricultural side there is a much greater need to protect our interests and provide a basis for us to continue to have a good, viable and forward-looking agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5643	In the West we have a great fruit production. A few years ago, there was a very special news: even though the kids are looking at protruding fruit trees outside the classroom window, they are being imported, for example. apples from the nearest opposite side of the globe, wrapped in plastic. Having a smart procurement policy for the public sector, which is addressed here by the red-green parties, is clearly a cheek egg that both creates jobs, contributes to local value creation and reduces emissions. Then it's really very strange to hear from a government council from a party that claims that they're too environmental and concerned with climate, that you refuse to take such completely practical and obviously sensible measures as letting the schoolchildren eat well, locally, safely produced fruit that you don't have to wrap up in plastic at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5648	On a general basis, I am in favour of decisions being taken as closely as possible to those involved. If you want to go to the purchase of fruit at a school or at a municipal institution of some kind, it is clear that the municipality can send out a public tender and ask for a quote from it. They have to do that, and they certainly do. Of course, they have to deal with the general rules that apply to tenders, but there are possibilities that can of course be used here. That representative was a little in the beginning, it's about recruiting to the industry – if the kids sit in the classroom and see an industry right outside the door. Not least recently, we have seen the need to strengthen both the skills and recruitment of these industries, because right now, like many others, they are struggling to obtain the foreign labour that has been good for them for many years and that they still need. But also here, there's a lot of exciting work going on that we're going to see the fruits of in the years that are coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5655	Something that works for the food industry is customs protection. Quite a number, at least within the agri-food industry, are nervous and tense now when free trade agreements are negotiated with the United Kingdom. They are afraid that the government will allow us to increase quotas so that we get more imports of meat and other agricultural products into Norway. At the same time, the fishing industry is busy with the future framework conditions. This item and row. An important principle is that you have it carefully, that you know what the framework conditions are. So then I think my little challenge is about the government council, for which this is definitely relevant, can say something about the time a free trade agreement with the United Kingdom will be signed, and what time will it be presented to the United Kingdom?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5662	At least what I can say is that it won't be signed until it's a consensus. A free trade agreement is still being negotiated. There have been demanding negotiations. It's an important agreement for our business. The United Kingdom is our most important trading partner after the EU. It is a free trade agreement to be comprehensive and ambitious and to be negotiated in a very short time. I can assure the representative Pollestad that it is working very hard now from all parties, but I cannot say anything about when we may agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5669	There are also speculations about what makes you not to come to an agreement. Is the Norwegian Government fully assembled, is it the British that does not become a few, or does it have this cause in relation to the Norwegian side? My question is really, when we don't get this deal right now, whether it's Boris Johnson or Olug Bollestad that's blocking it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5674	I'm not going to say anything about the discussions we've had internally in the government. But I'm going to say that the discussions that are now taking place externally, the speculations that are now out there, the concern, the anxiety, the anguish we see from different parts of the business world, are precisely the result of how important this agreement is, and how important it is to the total of Norwegian business. We are in the situation, which always when we negotiate free trade agreements, that we are a small and open economy that depends on exporting our goods. Even we don't have industrial customs into the country, we have something small on textiles, which is certainly given quite quickly, but on agriculture it's customs, it's a protection, and that's a reason we have. Of course, that's one of the things that we've discussed a lot, and that we take a lot into account in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5681	Governments argue that there was a great difference between the Left and the Advance Party, but in this case it is not. Here's a shoulder on the shoulder, whether you've been in government together or not. There has been no difference – no difference at all. The color blinds the other. It has been a situation where politics works. Increased tariff quotas into the country, it works. It weakens Norwegian food production. More frozen fish out of the country, it works. That means it's less to the Norwegian food industry. More power to the food chains, it works. We know that it makes more of what we once are produced abroad. All this works, we know it. When suggestions come up that change, they come down. Not only I, but I think a lot of people are sitting on the Stortinget, thinking that if we had invented the wheel, the government would have voted it down. Can that be true?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5688	To me it seems quite obvious that if the wheel had not yet been invented, it would have happened to the four bourgeois parties and not to the SV. It had obviously come as a suggestion from the government. I disagree with the description of reality used by the representative Knag Fylkesnes. Yes, it works – it's good that it works. It's good that we see an increase. It is good that things are going well in North Norway, because the fishing and seafood industry is going well. It is good that people are employed throughout the country in the food industry. There are some contradictions, you can't just say that the food industry is one industry with the same interests. There's a little bit of a difference. In particular, when it comes to exports and imports, there are major differences as to whether you belong to the agricultural side or to the fisheries and seafood side. We must, of course, take that into account in the policy we are pursuing. When it comes to free trade agreements, when it comes to exports and imports, it's to find a good balance, for our business life, our economy, depends on world trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5697	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5717	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5724	This is a proposal from Per Espen Stoknes and the Greens on lower meat consumption, increased self-sufficiency and more sustainable food. It is important for Norway to contribute to the objective of UN Sustainable Development Goal No. 2, the eradication of hunger, food security and better nutrition and the promotion of sustainable agriculture. We have just adopted an offensive climate plan that helps to substantiate this. Norwegian agriculture is one of the world’s low antibiotic consumption and high standards of animal welfare, and Norwegian farmers are very concerned with sustainability, climate and the environment. An entire industry is committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and increasing carbon uptake by 2030. Agriculture was the first industry to enter into an agreement with the Government on greenhouse gas emission reduction. It shall be reduced by 5 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent until 2030. It is the four main objectives of the agricultural policy that are the overall framework of the climate agreement, namely food security and preparedness, agriculture across the country, increased value creation and sustainable agriculture with lower greenhouse gas emissions. Agriculture itself has also produced its own climate plan with eight offensive areas of activity. One is the roll-out of climate advice and the climate calculator. Furthermore, it is more climate-friendly and sustainable feed, breeding and healthier livestock, it is fossil-free machinery and fossil-free heating, better use of fertilisers and good agronomy, the use of manure as raw material in industrial biogas plants, it is soil as carbon stock, catch crops and grazing, and it is new climate technology. When we have such offensive agriculture, it is important to play with them in this work. And then we get the best solutions. That is why this proposal for a representative is not being adopted today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5735	It is tempting not to get uplifted by this proposal from the Greens – that is probably exactly what they want – but it is difficult to let go too. The Greens show with things like this that their fight against the freedom of choice of ordinary people is not just what they stand for in the ordinary or social media, posts or debates, they also draw it all the way into the storeroom. You might be able to flirt with tips about lentils in meat cakes and offers of vegetarian food in the canteens, but the proposal that is being promoted here today goes far beyond that. The Greens are proposing to halve the meat consumption in Norway. They propose that the meat that you should be most graciously allowed to buy must be significantly more expensive than it is today, prohibiting price campaigns on meat, and they propose that public canteens should be banned from selling meat one day a week. It's on the limit of authoritarian. I don't think it's up to the politicians to decide what the Norwegian people should or should not eat. We can have dietary advice and guide people in what is tricked and not tricked, but after that people have to make their own choices. It may not be that at last it is only those with the thickest wallet who will have the opportunity to eat taco on Friday, pasta carbonara on Saturday or fry on Sunday. In Norway, we have amazing producers of food all over the country. These producers deserve that we politicians cheer on them, not talk them down. Some of these produce meat. Great – meat has been and is still an important part of the diet of most of the Nordics and is going to be there for a long time. Some say that the Progress Party is a threat to Norwegian agriculture. This proposal is really a threat to Norwegian agriculture. It is not that livestock farming, whether small-poultry or cattle, only contributes to the production of meat that we eat. They also contribute to milk and to the preservation of the cultural landscape, to mention some of the positive effects. This creates jobs not only in producers but also in the food industry, for carriers, in the trade in goods – in a wide range of industries and chains. These are jobs effectively exposed to this proposal. If there was any doubt, the Progress Party will not support any of the proposals that are being promoted today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5750	The next speaker is Per Espen Stoknes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5755	Isn't Geir Pollestad before me?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5760	The next speaker is Per Espen Stoknes, then Geir Pollestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5765	Few policy areas are more affected by fear of contact than just food policy. There is a strange, almost irrational fear among many when we suggest that politics should influence what people put on the plate, as illustrated by the previous representative's posts. When Oslo Municipality mixes in 20 pst. Norwegian-produced field beans in the meat cakes lead to a completely absurd public debate with claims that the Greens force the poor elderly to become vegans, although Norway's perhaps most famous, traditional cookbook writer Henriette Schønberg Erken, had a similar recipe in his cookbook from the early 1900s. The difference was that she, in a good Norwegian way, used a greater proportion of beans in her recipe. So Norway already has a lot of traditions and policies that affect what we eat. The sugar levy will never be met with the same identity policy framework frights as an indication that it might have been a good idea for the Nordics to eat a little less meat for public health, self-sufficiency and climate reasons. Food is politics. The fact that the North's meat consumption exploded at the end of the 1980s is not random. High meat consumption is due to the fact that the food chain dumps meat prices in order to attract customers, an agricultural policy that favours livestock farming, regardless of whether the soil is suitable for growing food plants there or not, and the absence of measures to make the Nordics eat in line with the dietary councils. The consequence is both reduced public health and reduced self-sufficiency. Norway has good conditions for sustainable agriculture based on local and renewable resources. We have large foreign resources, good animal health and less intensive agriculture than in many other countries. So let me say, in case someone is insecure: the Greens are for livestock farming in Norway, but we are going to make the best use of the country's resources, and in order to achieve that, we need an agricultural policy that stimulates more food crops where possible. The Greens want a completely new agricultural policy and a new diet policy. That is why we are making a number of proposals today that will affect both food consumption and Norwegian agricultural policy. Politics is wanting, and we pray, among other things. the government submits a new nutrition message. We propose, among other things: to lower the milk production quota ceiling, to strengthen the operation of seats, to reduce food waste and to reduce meat consumption. I hereby inform you that the Greens will also launch their own alternative agricultural settlement, where we will meet the peasant revolt in a much better way than the government does. With that, I will take up the proposals of the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European We will also vote in favour of the proposals. 1 –6.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5780	The representative Per Espen Stoknes then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5785	It may seem that the president gave the meat-free option a little precedence in the order here, but we're living well with it. I will only take the word to include the suggestions that the Central Party, together with others, is behind the option. There are things that have come into the proposals of the Greens' Greens' Greens' Party, which naturally belong to a discussion when we're going to deal with agricultural policy later, so that's what we do. When there is a discussion between the Green Party and the Progress Party about who is the biggest threat to Norwegian agriculture, I want to give them both a little straight in that particular respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5796	The representative Geir Pollestad has taken up the suggestions he referred to. The president had already advertised the representative Per Espen Stoknes, it was no more dramatic than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5804	What we have to deal with now is a lot of good suggestions. This with increased self-sufficiency is also something that much of the opposition can stand behind. With our less developed areas, we can actually be self-sufficient in both agricultural products and products from the sea. We can do that. But it requires a new policy, it requires a change. Of course, we need to reduce meat consumption. We're eating out of our own country. If these developments continue, and we just have one more and more meat, we don't have enough land resources to produce all of this meat. So you can't have the Sunday buffet on Monday and Tuesday and Wednesday. We have to have another line. The US diet does not fit the Norwegian land resources. The fact that there is a connection between what are the global climate challenges, what are our natural governments in Norway, and what we are about, is one of the major challenges we face in the coming years. It is not easy to control what is on the plate. One has to do it in a fair way, because if one just regulates this on price, we know who loses, and who wins, who goes through the big behavioral changes, and who doesn't. Those who have a lot of money don't have to change anything, because such adjustments don't mean anything to them. This requires a change now if it is to take effect in a few years. Adding Norwegian food production, adding what we are, all of those things, are long-term bets. So quickly establishing a course that adds a more resilient way to both drive the country and consume it is something that needs to start now – quickly. I am not sure what to recommend when it comes to the loose proposals, because there are many proposals under the agricultural agreement, which are things we have to decide on there. When it comes to many of those suggestions, we'll probably even go a little bit further and maybe have something similar, and I think that's true of several other parties here. Then it's a shame that one treats it here when it should actually be treated there, because we know that we have a rule here in the house that is such that one cannot formulate the same proposal – essentially – twice during a session. So if it is to be dealt with in the right place, I will encourage the Greens to draw up the proposals and rather promote them in the context of the treatment of the agricultural agreement, where they actually belong. If not, it puts us in a somewhat turbulent situation because we may have to vote against what we are for, or for what we are for, but which should actually be dealt with in negotiations related to the agricultural agreement. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5817	Then the speaking time is up, but the representative Knag Fylkesnes will probably bring up the SV's proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5822	That's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5827	The representative Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5832	Norway is a great and varied country. But only 3 pst. of our land area is cultivated. The main task of agriculture is to exploit this area for the production of safe and healthy food through sustainable production. The basic principle of individual policy choices and priorities is consumer choice. Over several years, the main objective of agricultural policy has been to increase food production in Norwegian resources within an environmentally and economically sustainable framework. Of our limited area, only one third can be used to produce cereals, fruit and vegetables. The remaining two thirds of the agricultural area is mainly suitable for grazing and grass. To use this area for food production, we have to produce meat and milk in our country. It is a goal to increase the proportion of Norwegian feed in addition to the 82 pst. as we see today. There is a high potential for increased production and consumption of Norwegian fruit, berries and vegetables. Green industry has therefore been a priority in agricultural negotiations over several years. In the context of climate change, agriculture’s main task is to reduce emissions per unit produced. This underpins the government's agreement with agriculture. We have good national dietary advice with recommendations for a healthy diet from Norwegian health authorities. Dietary councils are well documented and regularly changed in line with new knowledge. The dietary councils recommend a varied diet with lots of vegetables, fruits and berries, coarse cereal products and fish and limited quantities of processed meat, red meat, salt and sugar. The Government will continue its work in line with the objectives and measures set out in the Better Diet Action Plan. I believe that the government is pursuing a policy that takes care of increased self-sufficiency, the sustainability of food supply and public health in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5851	The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5856	As a spokesperson for fisheries policy, I would like to ask for the permission of the spokesperson for agricultural policy to take the floor. I love a little bit of simplified operations, so let me do one now. 90 pst. the soil grown in Norway is used for animal feed. If you think you're going to halve the meat production, the meat consumption, in Norway, then that's because both milk and other production are also linked to meat production, that a little under half of the soil goes out of use, gross. That's point one. When you are going to replace that meat consumption with plants, it only requires 10 to 15 pst. of the same earth. So you're left with that a little over 40 pst. of the land we are growing today, going out of business – if the proposal for the Green Party is adopted. With the 40 pst. Of course, it also goes 40 pst. by the farmers and farmers. So the question is back to the Greens: what have you really thought? Remove half of the farmland and farms in Norway? Because that's the result, if we can no longer use the soil to feed animals. And even with half the animals, these are quite dramatic conversions of Norwegian agriculture. It is no longer an agricultural activity throughout the country. It is no longer a viable agriculture, because half of the uses have disappeared, and half of the area is gone. With it there is also a completely different structure in supplying this agriculture with what they need for competence, equipment and not least other supplies of goods around the country. So the proposal is quite dramatic, both in the short and long term. In it, of course, there is also a good point, and that is that the exchange between meat and plant products is almost one to ten. We shall take that further into consideration in the discussion, but we shall be aware of what this proposal involves. It is therefore quite legitimate that there should be strong reactions to such a proposal. I don't want to call it anxiety, but I would get a little anxiety if I was in agriculture and was presented with a proposal that meant that half of my industry would be gone.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5863	Thank you to the Commissioner for Fisheries Policy in Right. Then we met again in the fisheries policy debate, because that was a strange thing. To put it that way, we're using areas abroad that are almost the same size as those we use in Norway to supply Norwegian agriculture. So the use of foreign inputs to produce the food we produce in Norway is extensive. The point here is not to put it down. SV has a program statement that we're going to reduce meat consumption, and I really don't understand that anyone in this room can resist. Then one really has to tighten up, because what's happening now is that we're about to eat out of our own food chamber. We have land resources that are not suitable for the extensive meat consumption that we have in Norway today. We import – we are totally dependent on importing – to have that production, and that's not enough. Just as the Sandtrøen representative uses to say that we need to adapt our own land resources, we need to adapt people to our own land resources – simple and simple. It's old farm fat, fish heritage, whatever sense – economically – that one has to eat on the basis of one's stock. That's the simple point here. And this isn't a problem that's going to get smaller, because there's some kind of tekno-fix that we don't know what is, that's going to come in and save us, something AI-like or something like that. No, these are simple things: we have to think about, and then the question is how to do this. When it comes to reducing meat consumption: for SV, we want to increase Norwegian use of grazing land. Today, most of the pasture area is abandoned because one instead runs feed and input factors to the animals. One has to use the amazing pastures we have. In my state, Troms, is 40 pst. And we have exactly the strategy that we're going to use to re-use these areas. At the same time, it should be completely in line with the goal of reducing meat consumption. The areas there will never go out of use, they will be used for other types of things. Not least: if we're going to have the meat consumption we have in Norway today, based on our land resources – not provided by the rest of the world – we don't have enough space. It's as simple as that: we have to translate both consumption and food production into line with the land resources we have in Norway. It makes us too vulnerable in a time of climate change to have the enormous dependence on the rest of the world. We are one of the most vulnerable countries in the world when it comes to food production.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5876	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5893	At the request of the Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5898	First, I will be allowed to thank the Committee for a good cooperation in the matter. We are considering a proposal to lift the ban on the cultivation of ants. The general ban on the cultivation of ants was a follow-up of, among other things. the 2012 climate agreement in the Stortinget and the 2017 budget decision of the Stortinget, in which the Stortinget proposed to the Government a proposal for a ban on the cultivation of ants. I will not go further into the ban. I want to talk about the proposals. Large parts of arable land in Norway consist of ants. According to a 2019 NIBIO report, ants account for one third, and in some parts of the country over half, of arable land. There is also considerable uncertainty about the climate impact of a ban on the breeding of bogs. A general ban on the cultivation of new ants, with a very limited exemption in exceptional cases, as laid down by the government, will affect food production in District Norway. The order from the bulk of the population was clear in terms of access to the exemption, and the assumption was a rule that would allow the farmer to develop his farm. During the course of the Stortingen process, a flexible and flexible exemption was provided for. Unfortunately, the government did not allow it until the matter was fixed. There is a need to make the scheme more flexible and to remove the general ban on the breeding of bogs. It is the municipality that has the best prerequisites to assess whether the need for re-cultivation of ants is available. The Progress Party is in principle against a general ban on the cultivation of ants. I would like to raise the point of view of the proposal tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. But since the proposal we have put forward with the Central Party does not get a majority in the matter, the Progress Party will inform us that we will vote in a subsidiary way in favour of proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5919	The representative Bengt Rune Strifeldt then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5924	Taking care of nature is really quite essential – quite essential for our future and our existence. Our ability to produce food, for example, is about our ability also to protect nature: biodiversity, take care of the basis of cultivation, not least to protect our food soil in a good way and to deal with ants and what is there, in a proper and restrictive way. That was our starting point in 2019 when we made a proposal. I'm impressed that the Center Party sits down and browses through old proposals promoted by the Workers' Party, and then they promote them again now. The problem is that it's two years late, time has gone on, things have evolved, and we've got different perspectives on it. We've also seen how things have worked. What we have done then is actually to start from what was in 2019, and put it into the 2021 context, and we are now proposing a very clear, restrictive line for the use of ants in the future both in terms of innovation, and not least in terms of the reduction of ants. Our responsibility today is to ensure that we protect, as far as possible, ants of the quality of ants for our future. We therefore believe it is essential, based on what we learn in 2019, that we get a stronger legal protection of myra, not a reference in the law that says that one can do something in a regulation – a regulation that can change at any time from any majority that sits at any time and that does whatever they want. No, we want it into the law. That is why we propose a stronger protection of ants in the law. Through the proposal we are promoting, we also clearly outline what should be the basis for starting activities. We believe that the municipalities, which of the country are set to manage our areas, are the ones that are also going to manage this, but based on some very clear, clear assumptions. We therefore believe that a weak and arbitrary system of exemption in the form of regulations must be replaced by a clear provision for soil protection, a rule of law. In order to find a good example of the non-functioning exemption in regulations, we can go to Oslofjorden and see how the degradation along the Oslofjord has taken place. It has not taken place through comprehensive plans on the part of the municipalities, it has acted on impulse through action relating to exemptions. That's too bad. This means that a lot of land has been built up as a result of just the short-term solutions introduced into the exemption. That is why we now want to propose – and I am very pleased that the Progress Party also warns that they will subsidiaryly support it – a legal text that says: ‘In order to avoid damage to natural and cultural landscapes or to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, the Ministry may provide evidence of innovation. The application for afforestation or reduction of ants may only be made where the concerns of climate, nature and cultural landscapes are maintained through a holistic plan approved by the individual municipality.’» I think this is an excellent proposal. I also believe that the government parties should actually now seize the opportunity to lay such a kind of framework around the management of an important natural area, which is ant. Then we've got a stronger legal protection. We have not been allowed to deal with it through exemptions, but through comprehensive plans. And democratically, we've got that instance that's closest where things actually are. Municipalities have to deal with this, but on the basis of some very clear premise to take care of climate, nature and cultural landscapes. I hope that the proposal we are promoting today can be supported by a majority. Then it can turn out that there is something good about recycling old Arbeiderparti proposals: just new, reinforced Arbeiderparti proposals. I take up the proposal from the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5948	The representative of Terje Aasland then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5953	On 16 June 2017, Stortinget sanctioned the Climate Act. The legislative text sets targets for the reduction of Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 and 2050. There are targets that Norway has committed itself to under the Paris Agreement and there are targets that will be demanding to be met. If we are to move from the stage of festivities on emissions targets and to practical action, all sectors of Norwegian business must prepare for major changes in the years ahead. The government has led an ambitious climate policy and will continue to do so in order to meet the climate objectives that Norway has committed itself to. It is a responsibility we take for future generations. One of the measures implemented by the government, which has a significant positive impact in reducing greenhouse gas emissions, is the tightening-up of the legislation on the regeneration of bogs. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations, FAO, point to the conservation of peat bogs as a very effective measure to reduce global CO 2 emissions. It was with that as the starting point, and with heavy climate support, the government in 2019 introduced a ban on the breeding of ants. It was implemented by amending the new cultivation regulation rather exactly one year ago. Nevertheless, there is reason to stress that an exemption was granted at the same time. Compensation may be granted when the landowner loses other production areas due to losses of land leased or in the case of public expansion. Derogation may also be granted where landowners have ants only as a growing resource or for carrying out specific productions in swamps on mountain soil. It is understandable that there have been reactions to the regulatory change from agriculture. In areas of grass-based animal husbandry, in particular, much of the cultivation potential is peat bog. However, there is reason to recall that just agriculture is one of the industries that first, and to a large extent, will be adversely affected by climate change. The flood summer of 2017 and the subsequent catastrophic drought summer of 2018 show that the climate is already changing and that extreme weather conditions are increasing. There is therefore no doubt that climate action with a high measurable impact will serve the interests of agriculture in particular. It's a paradox that especially the Center Party later to sweep under the carpet, with great energy. In most climate-related issues dealt with by the Storting during this period, the Senterpartiet points in the wrong direction: no to increased CO 2 tax, requirements for postponing zero emissions in world heritage fjords, and thus now a reversal of a climate action with a strong documented effect. Thus, a party that aims to speak the agricultural matter ahead of some in Norwegian policy is pursuing an environmental and climate policy that will affect agriculture more than most other industries in the years and decades to come. The Norwegian farmers experienced in 2017 and 2018 are only mild surface ripples in relation to the dramatic climate change that the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change is putting into its forecasts, if we fail to achieve a global effort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. This is why it is particularly sad when, on the basis of the wish for short-term political gains, the Centre once again shows that environmental and climate considerations are being lowered. There is something particularly young people in agriculture should notice. The 20-year-old, who today aims to take over the farm after the parental regeneration, is likely to have to deal with extreme weather as a 60-year-old who would threaten much of Norwegian agriculture. We also note that the Workers' Party chooses to distance itself from the climate policy of the Centre, despite the fact that the Centre Party here recycles, as the representative of Aasland said, a proposal that the Workers' Party itself has promoted. The government parties are committed to the amendment of the law in 2019 and to the changes in the new cultivation regulation that were made one year ago. There were demanding decisions, but they will be important measures to contribute to Norwegian food preparedness and climate change in Norwegian agriculture in the decades to come. Because what would it be like to leave a task so important to the municipalities? I have great faith in the municipalities, but we can experience very different rules around the municipalities, which will not serve the climate very well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5978	I think I'm going to continue there as the previous speaker ended, with something she's been doing for quite a long time, simply talking about the central party's policy. I'm pretty sure the young farmer who's not allowed to expand his garden, not because one goes in and sees concretely the ant that's on that garden, what greenhouse gas emissions it will give, but because one has the Left in government and has a general ban, an Oslo-determined ban, which one must adhere to, which does not take into account the resource base of the garden, also seems a bit strange when he sees that the same parties say yes to let parking spaces be built on ants, the lazy road being built on ants, the lazy railway being built on ants. Why is it the food production to take? I think the farmer thinks, whether he's 20, 40 or 60. The center party is trying to get multiples and to draw the policy in the direction we want. We saw – we were in dialogue, and we got feedback about it – that there were forces in the Right, in the Progress Party and in the Christian People's Party when this went on, which did not want this policy. But that's the way it's sometimes with multiple governments -- there was a decision that was very few wanted. We had a dialogue in the opposition at that time. We landed on slightly different solutions. What we have now chosen to do is to put forward a proposal for a representative that we believe – and hoped – could get a number of people, as we presented the Labour Party's proposal. I respect the Labour Party's change of mind in this, that they no longer have the wording that they had. Strictly controlled, it may not be a very good proposal either. It says, among other things: that this shall be stated in the law: ‘One general prohibition on the breeding of ants cannot be established in the periphery.’ It is strictly not necessary to write, as it is not required by the law to allow a person to refuse to do so. It is that it must be in the law if you are to be able to impose a ban, because the private property law will lead to this. So we've been trying to find solutions. Me and the Center Party have criticised parts of the Workers' Party's proposal, but we also see that it's an element of what's interesting. I believe that on the red-green side it will be easier to find good compromises, good solutions where we balance the care of nutrition and the care of nature and the care of climate in a good way. So we stick to what's our original proposal in this case. We have chosen not to repeat the proposal from the previous time the law was passed, but we also come subsidiaryly to support the Workers' Party's proposal for a new destination in the second paragraph of Section 11 of the Law. It's simply because we see that it's going to be better than not doing anything. The consequence will be that the shelter for the caregivers for new cultivation in Section 5(a) falls away, and we think it is positive. So we would also suggest that a not so strict a requirement for a holistic plan approved by the individual municipality that it is really an impossible task to do. But I think that the municipalities where this is relevant – Nordland is a state where it is very topical – will be able to find good solutions where one goes in and says, Is this ant deep? Is this ant reason? What culture method does one intend to use? How much do you want to drop this action? I think one will do the concrete assessment and not do the same as the multiple that we have now, and the government, does, that is, one says, no, it's forbidden. If a used ant is used to produce food, it is forbidden. Should a used her build a mall, yes, then a coma, and then we should discuss it. Should it be used to build a parking space? Come on, let's talk about it. Should a used ant be used to build a road? Yeah, we can discuss that. It's this thing that's so wrong, and that an equalizer emits from biological processes with the combustion of oil and coal and gas and the emissions that come with it. Therefore, the Centre Party will support the Workers' Party's proposals in a subsidiary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e5998	To start almost where the last speaker ends, that's exactly what we address in our proposal: if there's a ban on building down ants, that can't only apply to agriculture. I don't understand why no more can be involved. In other words, both the Centre Party and the Workers' Party are in order that there should be some form of ban on construction in ants, and then the question is whether or not the municipalities should assess it. But why in all the world can't a then make this a general requirement not to build down ants? I don't understand that, at least not when you're performing the paradox, which I'm completely in agreement with. The only way to show this is to vote in favour of our proposal, which is the last proposal in this case. I'll deal with that proposal, first of all. I believe that the time when a person can only take a decision on a matter and then hope that the sum will finally go up, it is over when this is the case. If you're going to open too much of ants by building down ants, you have to say something at the same time about who's going to take the load. What should be the burden? One must have something going up here. One cannot just go from case to case and hope that at some point there will be a vaccine that takes responsibility and ensures that the sum does not go into the sink. One must have some plane for this. This is a demanding matter. I come from a part of the country where the little agriculture that is, which is a fantastic agriculture, is sloppy to the sea, there's a lot of ants, and there's an agriculture that I want more of -- not least if we use all the land that's up in the mountains, etc. for grazing. But one is totally dependent on using the thin line that exists between the mountains and the sea, and there's a lot of rainfall, and there's a lot of misery. So this is complicated. But to imagine that this is only to be fully opened up, which will have entirely unintended consequences for other industries that will then have to take all of them, or that one suggests that the municipality should take a national responsibility for this, which is the reality of the other two proposals, I do not understand how to do so. I thought we should have a discussion that takes over the whole matter: problems with the ban on the cultivation of ants, and at the same time we are totally dependent on it if we're going to make it. But it should not be so strict that it is completely impossible and destructive to agriculture, but it must be just so strict that we do not destroy animal life, etc. to increase emissions to the atmosphere. We're a lot of people with SV that emissions from something fossil, that is, that one picks up old things from the earth and burns them, is something completely different than a cow that's crazy. It's open. But in the situation we're in now, we just have to bring down these emissions, wherever they come from. If you don't, it will not be possible. The reality of the matter now is that we have to bring down absolutely all of the emissions, we have to phase out everything that has to do with fossil combustion, and that means we have to increase CO2 emissions. Let's talk. So before that time, we have to make use of absolutely all the possibilities we have, if we're going to be able to prevent irreversible destruction of our nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6014	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6020	It's a little motivating, really – it's okay to listen to the representative of Fylkesnes, and there's no doubt that we've committed ourselves to ambitious climate goals. The left and the government have taken climate policy very seriously in all sectors, not least agriculture. Yes, it is true that this has given rise to some challenges in agriculture, but it also gives some challenges to what I hear this case is about to happen, that one removes the ban. Agriculture has also committed itself to reducing CO 2 emissions, so that if it could be a say in agriculture what it might seem to be subsidising, it will also be a clear challenge for Norwegian agriculture to meet the commitments it has signed. I believe that agriculture is part of the climate solution. The climate contribution that myra has made has been a major contribution. When it may seem that it will not be relevant after today's case, it must be compensated on another team. I am registering the intention, and I also registered the debate the representative of Aasland participated in in the New Year 18 for a while, but the consequence of what we are doing today will be something different than what was then. An overall plan that forms part of the area section of the municipal plan, or an overall plan around ants for the municipalities, as the representative Ebbesen also pointed out, will make a pretty big leap between the different municipalities in terms of the practice. There will be different practices in different municipalities. It can also give rise to some challenges in time. I don't disagree with the intention of looking at infrastructure when it comes to bogs, because what's the challenge is what ants release. But I'm recording what the hall is doing, and the promise the Workers' Party gave to the environmental organisations in the New Year's Eve 18 that evening, can prove to be of little value after we're done with tomorrow's voting. One might wonder that the Workers' Party does not as well promote what they had, and as the Centre Party has also promoted, instead of misrepresenting its own position. I think that's a little weird. Another thing is that when you send that challenge now, agriculture has to find the reduction of CO 2 in a different way than what might have been the easiest solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6043	There are many opinions about the management of ants. However, I feel that we are relatively common about the starting point. Our ants store large amounts of carbon. The net effect on the climate of new ants depends on the type of production for which ants are to be used, but regardless of production, it would be beneficial for climate reasons to avoid new ants. That was why the Stortinget, both in the 2012 climate agreement and in the 2017 budget decision, called on the government to propose a ban on the cultivation of ants. This has been followed up by the government. Less than two years ago, a change in the law of the land that opened up to regulate the re-cultivation of bogs by regulation entered into force. Less than one year ago, a new provision in the new cultivation regulation prohibiting the cultivation of ants entered into force. The provision also provides for a rule that, in exceptional cases, the municipality may grant a derogation for the breeding of boar. These rules shall contribute to the follow-up to Norway’s international climate commitments. The regulatory framework is designed to help reduce greenhouse gas emissions from agriculture. At the same time, municipalities may derogate from the prohibition in order to safeguard the farmer's ability to maintain farming. The possibility of new cultivation is important in order to ensure sufficient production areas in the future. Although we are constantly working to reduce the degradation of ants or arable land, we will need available renewable land to replace soils that are being built up, for example. in important transport projects or when we have exemptions for other things. That is exactly why we have this derogation – in order to ensure such cases. I perceive that a large majority believe that municipalities should have a central role in the future, and I think that makes sense. An authorisation for new cultivation shall be based on thorough assessments by the municipality itself. I think it's the municipality that has the best conditions to weigh the different considerations. Any restrictions on other types of reduction of ants, such as transport or residential development — or parking spaces, which have been discussed by the interlocutor — must be assessed in their own processes. Such measures are subject to sectoral laws other than those for which I am responsible. In the climate plan earlier this year, the government promoted a number of measures to reduce emissions from the degradation of green areas. This also includes measures to prevent the reduction of ants. If, as a result of up-to-date research, new knowledge of the net impacts of different climate action emerges, we should be open to reconsidering different measures. In the new cultivation regulation there is a separate requirement for reporting in cases where the municipality grants a derogation for the breeding of boar. The changes in the new cultivation regulation are less than one year old. I think it makes sense to gain experience of how the legislation works in practice before we consider a change. When I read the comments in the settings, I wonder – and I have to ask the representative Aasland: Does the Workers' Party think that what is available should be tightened up? If the answer is yes, I am surprised that the Centre Party and the Advance Party are in favour of something that is more stringent than what is in the regulatory process today when it comes to the regeneration of ants.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6068	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6073	I encourage the Minister of Agriculture to read the position carefully, because it says very clearly what the Workers' Party means. The working party believes very clearly that we need to take better care of the ants as a basis for our future and for the quality that ants possess. It's very emphatic in the comment, as the basis for what we're going to do now. I would also recommend the Council of State to read carefully its own letters to the Stortinget. Because there were quite strong calls for issues relating to the right of derogation in the regulation that the government has been given to deal with ants, which are just about new cultivation, we asked for an assessment of our bill, of how it would actually meet with regard to the protection of ants. The Council of State then writes to the Committee in reply letters: ‘The second sentence of the amendment means that a ‘ban’ on the re-cultivation of ants in practice — since it also deals with degradation — ‘even if the basis for the prohibitions laid down in Regulations is omitted’.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6081	I really don't know what the question was in the extension of what was read now. It would have been an advantage if I knew the question before I answered it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6086	The representative of Aasland may try again.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6091	I'm sorry, I got so excited, because I think the Council's letter of reply to the committee was so well written. So she writes: ‘The second sentence of the amendment shall mean that there shall in practice be a ‘ban’ on the re-cultivation of ants, even if the basis for the prohibition laid down in Regulation is omitted’. Does the Council agree with the opinion she wrote to the Committee? In practice, this means that there will be a ban on the cultivation of ants.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6101	Now I understood the question. What I have answered in the letter, I am fully aware that I have answered, and I agree with what I have answered. I believe that in the regulation there is a dispensation scheme that the municipalities can use, precisely when one believes that there are serious reasons to use ants for something else. There shall be a derogation. I believe that it is the municipalities that know best where the shoe is printed, and therefore that right of exemption should lie with the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6106	Then I believe that the Council of State agrees with me that the exemptions granted around the municipalities often become very random, and that in the case of the management of bogs, which is such an important issue in order to preserve biodiversity and in the interests of climate, etc., it is better to make it based on overall plans than exemptions individually. A good example that I like to use is the construction of the beach zone in Oslofjord, where one has soon built up the entire beach zone because of the dispensation access that has been there. Isn't that a bad solution? Is it not better to include it and manage key areas in comprehensive plans with clear responsibilities for what is to be managed?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6111	At that point, I actually disagree with the Aasland representative. I think the wit is pretty well distributed. I think that when local politicians, those who sit in the municipal administration and manage our land, know that it's a ban on the cultivation of ants, but that it's a dispensation option, it's those who know the individual places, it's those who know what the possibilities are, and it's those who are able to give that derogation. I have faith in that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6116	That's not what I said – that the municipalities don't think properly, thoroughly and factually about things or are not wise. On the contrary, they do. But they have to do it on the basis of overall plans, because then one looks at the consequences over time of what you're doing. What often happens through dispensations are individual decisions that are taken there and there, without seeing the big picture and the significant responsibility of the municipalities in terms of administration. Then my question was whether it is not better to make the kind of decision based on overall, responsible plans that must be adopted by the municipality than that one does it by way of exemption decisions individually, which are only about individual matters, and where management is done piece by piece and piece by piece, which is an excellent example of which is the Oslo soil and the degradation of the beach zone.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6122	I still believe that the municipalities, according to the regulations that exist, are best suited to maintain both the whole and the assessments, down to the individual garden, in order to use the resources best when it comes to saying yes or no to a derogation for the regrowing of ants.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6127	The first question to the Council of State is: Will there be more or less emissions resulting from the change that it plans to become more numerous in the room now? Will there be more or less discharges resulting from the construction of ants?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6132	What I cannot understand is: On the one hand, the Workers' Party says that this is a more stringent measure than the one contained in the exemption. If it's more stringent, I'd think it would be less new cultivation of ants, and then it would be less emissions. But if it is the opposite, that it is not – because the Progress Party and the Central Party are really behind the proposal – there will be more emissions, because we know that it will release carbon. That's what I'm wondering about what's going on right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6137	I understand that wonder, and I don't know if anyone in the room can explain it either. What was the starting point is that a derogation is linked to municipalities where there is a very special concern that must be taken, where the only resource is mortar. That's the case of one of these people. While what is now coming up as suggestions from the Workers' Party, with the support of several, a number, is that as long as one has a holistic plan – I don't know how much health a municipality can have, but a health care for the municipality, and the municipality should think of a climate – can open up to innovation in ants. This must mean in addition to the municipalities where the only cultivation resource is mine. So I see this as a substantial opening. Is the Council of State with me on that reasoning?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6144	I'm worried that one now makes an alternative two. When one cannot get to what was the original proposal, one goes to what is the closest opening, and that is what I feel the Workers' Party is doing when the Centre Party and the Progress Party support the proposal. Then I hear the representative Aasland says it should be tighter, but I can't interpret it the way it is when it gets the way it is. But I wish, if that is the case – with the proposal that is now available – that we keep the regulation we have, and see the result over a longer period of time than a few months. I think that would have been good for the effect of the regulation: looking at the result over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6149	The cord shift is over. For the record, if anyone thinks that Aasland's representative got an extra line because he didn't come up with the question, it's wrong. He got from the quota. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6158	In the Jeleia platform, the ban on antagonism was presented as a protection of biodiversity. But in order for the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party to justify the introduction of a pure protection of the land without mentioning the word 'area protection', the answer to the calculation to justify the ban on ant farming was that this was a climate action. That's not a professional basis to say. But in order for the argument to stand in the further debate, the parameters up in the calculation had to be expressed in uncertain estimates and the omission of the main parameters in order to make this estimate of the climate impact of the ban. In three minutes it is not possible to give a complete comment to the whole case complex, but I will take the greatest misunderstanding around this. When an estimate of Norway’s ants area and the assumptions in NIBIO’s report on the renewal of the ants and the environmental protection organisation Sabima’s estimates of growth in Norwegian ants, one will find that estimated new cultivation in Norway will contribute to 0,01 pst. of annual growth in Norwegian ants. When it is claimed that new cultivation leads to a reduction in carbon stocks, it is far from the truth. To take an example that illustrates this, it becomes like not counting the growth in forest and just calculating carbon losses on logging and not correcting for recording. The centre party does not accept that the reduction in the green carbon cycle should be the solution to the climate issue. We have to focus on what is the real reason why the world has come into the situation that it is, and that is overconsumption of black carbon. The green carbon cycle, along with people's knowledge of nature and culture, is the basis for people's well-being both here in Oslo City and on a small farm up in North Norway. Too many have forgotten this and have formed parties and organisations with the aim of protesting against all traces of this necessary culture, this interaction between man and nature. There is no professional basis for saying that ant cultivation produces climate emissions. It can give the net bonding of carbon.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6169	The world is facing two major environmental crises. It's climate change, and then it's loss of nature. Both of these crises reinforce each other and can only be resolved if we resolve the crises together. Nature is our best carbon stock, and ants are nature's supersystem. Myra is our carbon stock, it's a flood dump for us, it's a habitat for thousands of species, and it gives us open-air life in terms of what are the species that are in the periphery of ants. Therefore, ants in Norway need stronger protection. A third of the ants in Norway have already been built up. Maybe there's even more. We cannot destroy any more, because it will help to strengthen both the natural crisis and the climate crisis. For this reason, the Workers' Party in the proposal in the vote proposes greater protection for ants. There have been several references in the debate to what happened in 2019. Well, luckily, the world has moved on since then. We know a lot more about what nature's vulnerability is, and how important ants are. We don't think it's good enough what comes from the government. It's a prescription. We want this into the law. It is true that Sabima has written in her letter to the Committee: ‘We look with concern at exemptions granted, and not least that it is difficult to keep track of the destruction of bogs through derogations from the prohibition on new cultivation.’ It is not to misjudge the debate, as was said by the spokesperson of the Left. It's the opposite of making this much clearer. We want a practice that's more restrictive than the one that's been before, and therefore we don't want the form where it's free of exceptions, as it is today. We want this into the law. Then the main argument of the Council of State was that she was confused about which parties voted for – the Party of Advancement and the Party of Centers get to answer for themselves; for both parties may be the source of confusion sometimes – but she gets to read what is in the notes of the Workers' Party, she gets to read what is proposed by the Workers' Party, and hear what is being said by the Workers' Party's spokespersons. Then it's clear what's in the proposal. If it turns out to be a majority when we go to voting tomorrow, it's a happy day, and it gives myra in Norway stronger protection – not just through regulation but through holistic plans, and it'll be good for nature and good for the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6185	First, I want to make it clear that the regeneration of ants gives greenhouse gas emissions. The professional basis is in Klimakur. Whether it was 450,000 or 900,000 tons by 2030, I'm not sure. We're going to have to check that out. In this case, the Workers' Party shows its true face. They talk a lot about climate action. They talk a lot about nature protection. However, when practical policies are to be implemented, the Labour Party weakens this protection. They weaken climate action, and they weaken nature protection. And they wrap it up in a fog talk about climate action and nature protection that's almost impossible to understand. I think the Central Party and the Advance Party are very clear about what the proposal actually involves. What it involves is a delegation to the municipalities. The Labour Party refers to overall plans in its proposal, but they remove the requirement in the regulation today that the Ministry should approve the plans. This is a mere delegation to each municipality. With the example of the beach zone, we have many enough examples of how it goes when you put this down and delegate it – and that is where the decisions are taken, with the rapporteurs from the centre party, from the Labour Party. There is no doubt that with this majority there is only a matter of time before the regulation that it now exists, with a ban on the cultivation of ants, falls away. I think the Workers' Party knows that very well, but they're trying to wrap it into a stronger protection, and the Center Party and the Advance Party have understood that. If the Workers' Party really wanted a stronger protection, they would have retained the regulation against new cultivation of ants – that's an important first step – and then they would have looked at how to tighten up the law to protect ants from other degradations, whether they are cabins, residential areas or infrastructure. They do not choose to do that, rather they choose to go to the fog, and it weakens the law and an important climate action and nature protection measure that has been in place for one year, before they go the other way and withdraw it. It is as it has been said in the past: if we do not cut greenhouse gas emissions with this measure, we must do so within agriculture, within other measures. I do not know in which other areas the Labour Party believes we should now tighten up the use of measures to compensate for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6200	Social-democratic policies are built on common sense, and that is what the representative of Aasland has presented here today. Because it is clear that the proposal to have a legal regulation of new cultivation while including degradation will lead to lower climate emissions. It's quite a fact, because the fact that we get it into the law is stronger than just a regulation, and not least the bulk of the emissions are related to the reduction of ants. What Aasland has presented is, in fact, a chess set, which many parties don't seem to quite understand, because it's the best solution that should have been presented right away. It's more effective, and it's more fair, and it's important in so many ways that we have a climate policy that works, but most people can understand. For the Left has become a batch where there is barrel and drive for million cars, for Thon malls and motorways, while for him who produces carrots on Smøla, he will have a bureaucratic, regulatory decision taken over him, for which no one else in society has to stand by. It's exactly the same as this right-hand government subsidising the most expensive electric cars, while families with children in Norway have to pay thousands of dollars to transport from one part of the country to another by train. It's completely unfair, it's completely unsocial, and it's giving rise to some increases in emissions. We want the emissions down and the justice up. So what Aasland has presented here on behalf of the Workers' Party is actually one of the wisest things that has been done in this field in long periods of time. It's going to stand over time and get the emissions down. Aasland is the plan policy response to Magnus Carlsen, and it doesn't come all the way here, but it becomes obvious when you hear from the government council Vervik Bollestad. The Council of State itself must admit that this works better than what is already there, but doubts it because of which parties have apparently intended to vote in favour. That's not the way a state council can act. You have to be honest that this is actually a better proposal, which is smart for both justice and climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6209	This is going to be a bit of a weird debate, and we'll see how my contribution to this debate is going to be. It is quite right that there is something unfair about the fact that if agriculture is going to build up ants, it is initially a prohibition, but in special cases in areas where these are the only soil resources, it can be opened by way of a derogation upon application to the ministry. That's quite right: it's unfair that Thon can take care of himself and build it out, etc. – totally unfair. But why do the parties that thought this was unfair do not vote for the SV's proposal in the setting? Can anyone take the word and explain it to me, or perhaps stop talking about the deep injustice that lies in it? You can only select one piece, one cannot do both. So one gets either voice for it or stops pulling up that paradox. If you're busy with the injustice, you have to do something about it. Then they have the proposal right in front of them on the table and can vote in favour of it. So it was the chess suit, and then we're going to hope that someone more than SV understands it. So to the proposal that lies here: everyone here knows about the laws on soil, Section 11, second paragraph, where it says that one in these special cases can search the ministry and thus have ants built down if these are the only soil resources that are available. The dispensation basis exists. The one thing that replaces this, as I understand it – here someone from the Workers' Party might come up and correct me – is that one throws away the department and says that as long as the municipality has created a holistic climate plan, the municipality is free to build ants. If there is a chess move, I think it's a very bad chess move. Then we have to start asking ourselves questions, because this will actually lead to new emissions. We know that there will be a place between 550 000 and 900 000 tonnes of extra emissions if one at worst builds out on all of the ants we have. It's equivalent to the Melkøya gas plant, it's equivalent to 360 000 fossil cars, and it's going to be point emissions of the largest in the whole country. Then those who go in for this must begin to explain to the rest of the hall how in all the world they are going to make this happen together. Who's going to have to take a load then? How should a person make the climate policy go hand in hand? But since one has added to this concept that the municipalities are going to deal with this further, it is going to be an insider's office if one has to have some kind of holistic climate policy in that country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6225	This is a bit of a strange debate to come in and follow, as it is often when the party, as apparently meaning very different things, is still going to vote for the same proposal. Then the big question is what should be an expression for. What is the will of the Storting? It is then often the job of a government to sit down and figure it out. Firstly, I can say that if one thinks that the regeneration of ants does not provide greenhouse gas emissions, one really should not participate in the debate, because it does quite openly. That's a scientific fact, so we don't have to discuss that. It's quite curative to point out different paradoxes by saying that it's allowed to build down for one purpose, but not for another. But then it's like that's not the way it is. For many years we have had a ban on draining ants to plant forests. Now we've got a ban on draining ants to renovate. The government has just announced a possible ban on the drainage of peat bogs. They have in common that those who are opposite the one are always opposite the other. It's probably not like that's where the paradox lies. The question I am asking myself, which is important here, is that in the proposal that the majority now clearly wants to adopt, it says that it is important to keep ants, etc., and that the department can provide signs of innovation. That's good. In this way, the Ministry will be able to provide information on innovation, and today we have information on innovation. They say that there is initially a ban on new cultivation, and then there are dispensations. When I listen to the representative from the Labour Party, who says that too much is being built up today, that too many exemptions are being granted, and that ants need a stronger protection, as the Aukarus representative says, I almost assume that the department must be able to provide a guarantee, that one can still have a ban on new cultivation. I guess so. If so, the representative of the Workers' Party must go up and confirm it. If you don't, at least it's a little demanding to understand what a person is asking for. In that case, the Minister of Agriculture will have a job afterwards to find out what the Storting has meant, but it is one such job that we government councils sometimes get. That's why it's good that we have the government we have, with the state councils we have, so that the Storting can have confidence that we're doing that job in a good way. But I think what I'm saying is that when the representatives of the Labour Party, who have written the proposal that the Centre Party and the Progress Party will now support, says that the consequence of that proposal must be that there should be a stricter protection, not a weaker protection, less degradation, no more degradation, must the natural interpretation be that one can have a regulatory ban on the cultivation of ants? There's an interesting question that it should be possible to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6242	I have to say that in this case the Workers' Party rotates it quite thoroughly in the ants. Today, the law states that a ban can be imposed on the cultivation of ants and that derogations can only be made by approval from the ministry. The Workers' Party will now remove from the legal text the prohibition of the cultivation of ants in the regulation. Nevertheless, they say that this will give ants a stronger protection. Like the Council of State, Rotevatn, I would like to ask for a clear response from the Workers' Party: Does it mean that a ban on the cultivation of ants can still be imposed or not? The working party will also remove the fact that exemptions can only be approved by the Ministry. The Workers' Party will write in the legal text that it is the municipalities that will approve the exemption. It was said that the Workers' Party is the policy response to Magnus Carlsen. I have never seen Magnus Carlsen put himself in voluntary chess food, as the Workers' Party puts the ants' chess mat in this matter. If the Workers' Party had been concerned with the injustice they believe it is only farmers who are to take care of the ants, it is not so difficult to press the green button when the SV's proposal for a ban on the reduction of the ants comes to a vote. It's very simple. If they haven't tried it, I can show you how it's done. Then we also get a ban on building the malls, motorways and others on the valuable moor. If the Workers' Party had been committed to taking care of nature, preventing greenhouse gas emissions and ensuring that everyone took part in the work of caring for ants, they would have voted in favour of SV's proposal when it comes to voting. What we are now at risk is to lose a pretty big environmental victory thanks to a devastating proposal from the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6259	This discussion asks a little bit about the emergence of a human race that was going to discuss global rental stars, including the Council of State of Rotevatn, which has now signed up in the debate, and which pointed out that when a party that meant a little different things found together, a lot could happen. It reminds me a little bit about the government project we have on this. I thought that the proposal put forward by the Labour Party gave room for understanding. It does not provide an absolute prohibition. It provides a way of assessing cultivation methods, it provides a way of assessing whether ants are deep or shallow or how much greenhouse gas it will become, etc. That is why we are voting in favour of this, although we believe that our proposal is better. We were challenged by the representative Knag Fylkesnes from SV on why we do not vote for SV's proposal, which means a total ban on newly cultivated ants. We also want when a builder, for example. the railway shall take care of ants and try to save as much ants as possible. But the idea that we should go in favour of a bill on total ban or ban on the reduction of ants, without knowing what that would mean, for example. for the construction of North Norway, the Central Party does not wish to enter. Some ants might be needed to build down. So a little bit about why we're voting for this. A representative from the Left, Ola Elvestuen, said it was a matter of time before the total ban would disappear if this were agreed. There is no time question. If the law of the land disappears, the regulation will of course be invalid because a very clear reference to a ban on new cultivation can be made. When that prohibition is out, yes, the prescription that permits it will no longer stand. It has to be very, very clear. I believe that in a good dialogue with the municipalities to create holistic plans, the municipalities will be interested in taking care of ants, taking care of biological defects associated with ants and finding sensible solutions. And that's what the Center Party is starting from: we want to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, but we want to use a little healthy farm fat, we want to evaluate this concretely, whether it's about using ants to build North Norway, to grow food, or to build a road. Therefore, we believe that a total ban is so wrong, and that is the background for us to vote as we do in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6272	A couple of weeks ago, I saw the cranberry that tripped between the thymotis cushions on a cultivated swamp and lightly after food between the grass roots. A little further away was the Tranemora on the reir in the middle of a tree in a small thorn in a wetlands area. Trana's been there for years. Along with Trana, there's always some ducks and rye. They probably feel a little safer for the reef near the big crane. The combination of cultivated land, wetlands, forest terns, roads and farms is part of this country in which we are so happy. Nature and activity around the farms in the districts go hand in hand. The production of food is by no means a crisis for the ants in our country. When the question of taking care of valuable ant areas and wetlands comes up, it may sound as if the production of food is the big problem. It's not like that. In Norway, 9.8 pst. the land area of the bog and the growth rate of the bog is 1 mm per year, according to Sabima. Only 3 pst. the land area of Norway is currently cultivated land, including surface-grown land and inland pastures, according to the Government. In the Nordic region, the area is ground 1.4 pst. For comparison, a total of 66 pst. of the area of the cultivated land of Denmark. The State Council of Rotevatn may not have read the NIBIO report ‘Knowledge base on the breeding of bogs’, which was the basis for the prohibition. It was found that there is generally considerable uncertainty about greenhouse gas emissions from cultivated bogs. The report states that there is little evidence. But it turned out that it is observed that the excavating of ants, which is a more modern form of cultivation, does not have the same consequence as digging of ants. The excavation may result in the net bonding of carbon in the mineral soil applied to the ant layer, according to the article ‘More knowledge of ants’ by the Director of NIBIO. Sea supplies, preparedness and solidarity with the world's people would have needed more of our own land to be used for the production of food. Our maritime supply of agricultural food is below 40 pst. – corrected for imported feedingstuffs. At national level, the average cultivation of 2,200 decare ants per year during the period 1997–2016 was authorised. By comparison, it was decided in 2020 to redeploy 3,900 deer of cultivated land.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6287	This is a bit of a strange debate, especially when government councils, government representatives, enter into the debate without being prepared for what the other government council has professionally informed the Stortinget. I think that's a little weird. With the question of legal assistance or a legal interpretation of what we are proposing, we have asked what is actually happening here. The Council of State then clearly answers that in practice this means a legal ban on the cultivation of ants. According to my experience, although I am not a legal expert, a law ban on the cultivation of bogs is much stronger than a regulation on a ban on the cultivation of bogs with a relatively high level of exemption. That's the starting point, so simple and so difficult. There will be no more greenhouse gas emissions even if the Progress Party and the Centre vote in favour of the proposal in this Chamber. It's going to be a little bit stupid, and it's going to be adding these parts to some artificial abilities. Our purpose is very clear. It's taking better care of ants than we've done up to now, and taking better care of the area based on what we have good experience with, for example. the dispensation access for the construction of the beach zone along the Oslofjorden. I assume that the Council of State, Rotevatn, very much agrees with the undersigned that there has been a very unfortunate situation in which, through exemptions from the Law on Planning and Building, the municipalities can very clearly make a reduction in the beach zone, as has been the case. It's a very unfortunate practice. It's much better to get it into whole plans and have very clear rules about it. The state can intervene. The new cultivation regulation opens up the possibility for the government administrator to intervene at any time if it is a breach of the conditions for new cultivation. What's the motif of the Workers' Party here is that we're also adding degradation, the general access to building down ants. If it's not better for the greenhouse gas emissions, better for the preservation of ants, then I really don't understand any of the world's things. In that case, I do not understand how this government intends to follow up the possible law decision taken in Stortinget, when the assumptions and the bill are as clear as the Workers' Party has put forward here. It's completely incomprehensible if it's not followed up that way, with the practice that's laid down here. We also trust the municipalities in taking the responsibility of Stortinget. They do that in all other areas, and I think it is a quality in our democracy to also fence local democracy in this way. But the state has full rights if that's the way they have to use them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6302	When an article begins such as the statements by Sandtrøen began, with the sentence «Social Democratic Policy Is Built on Sound Reason», then you know that you start at the bottom. Then one is surprised when one sits in his chair and knows peace and no danger and hears an article digging down. They didn't think that was possible, but here we even get into the weakening that the Workers' Party wants in the electric car policy, a policy that we know works, and that makes normal families of children – and we know that the Workers' Party has gone out with an internal writing where they have to explain to their trustees what the term ordinary people mean, because they don't know anymore – can buy electric cars, zero-emission cars, and that we're on the right track to achieve the 2025 target. Yes, he even comes into the destruction of the policy that the Workers' Party has adopted. If Aukrust's representative is right in saying that this is a narrowing, then the question is: why do the Progress Party and the Centre vote in favour of the proposal? Because they're against a narrowdown and want liberalisation, and then I think what Terje Aasland said in his speech is right, that he doesn't understand any of the world's things about how this proposal is going to be implemented. It may be Pollestad, Mossleth or others from the Center Party must go up and explain to the Workers' Party what their proposal means, and why they vote for it. Because it is clear that neither the Center Party nor the Advance Party buys the Workers' Party's explanation that this is a tightening. I know more from the Center Party and the Advance Party in the Chamber here pretty well after eight years at this house, and it's wise people. They know what they do when they make policies. In this Chamber we have heard the Labour Party hold an own-initiative debate on nature. They have made proposals on the global framework for nature, the nature agreement, not particularly good and necessary proposals, but proposals are in full agreement. But now we know that there's only been a game for the gallery, because the word they want out, which lies there today, and which is the premise today, is prohibition. They will remove that, and they will vote in favour of it with parties standing on this pulpit and questioning the scientific fact that the preservation of ants is a good climate action. So it's true: in this case, the Workers' Party doesn't understand anything.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6317	Subject – no, the representative Torgair Knag Fylkesnes has spoken twice earlier and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6322	I hope the union doesn't come! I was challenged by the representative Pollestad about what is in our proposal for a general ban on the destruction of ants. To reassure the representative: It is precisely the same arrangements that are under today’s system – in a specific case, a build-up can take place. In a particular case, a building can be built down. This has been clear for SV in all cases, even when it applies to our efforts for soil protection. We're hard on increased soil protection, but in a special case, where very important societal considerations warrant it, one can open up to it. This is a matter of priority in many ways. What type of emission is there to add? We're going to reduce the emissions strongly in the years that come. What area are we going to allow emissions from? This is potentially equivalent to emissions from Årdal and Sunndal combined, just to put it slightly in perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6331	A minute goes by, and speaking time is up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6336	When I hear the Workers' Party that will now strengthen the protection of ants, it is completely incomprehensible why they come with this proposal that takes away the regulation against the breeding of ants and also removes the condition that there was a plan approved by the ministry. This is done after we have had a long process to put in place the regulation, a long process to make exceptions in the municipalities where there is a need for it, so that you also have flexibility in the law where it is today. I believe more that the Workers' Party is where the representative Pollestad was, who said the Center Party wants to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. I think the Labour Party does too: they want to do so, but they do not want to implement the measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions or to take care of nature. It's about conducting a rhetoric where you try to be on all sides of the debate, and what you think first and foremost about is not climate, not nature, but the position of the Workers' Party. The debate reveals that the Central Party and the Advance Party have understood what is going on. This is a delegation to the municipalities, it's a weakening of a protection that's been working on since the climate deal in 2012, which we've got in place, which works – and then you just take it away after a year. I think this case shows that in the Workers' Party there are many who want to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, there are strong desires to take care of nature. But when the individual cases come, when the individual cases are to be decided, they choose to oppose them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6348	For us, it was important to put in place a derogation in order to ensure the farmer's ability to maintain farming. It could, as the Sandtrøen representative said, be the only cultivation opportunity that is there, or a desire to care for specific productions. The municipality has the opportunity to allow the re-growing of ants if the need indicates that the consideration of nature, environment and climate actually has to give up at the time. The Directorate-General for Agriculture has developed a guide to the new cultivation regulation, which gives details of the rules on new cultivation of bogs. The guide will help to ensure consistent practices in the regulation and implementation of the rules in our country. When that new cultivation is completed, it is that the owner of the land gives notice to the municipality, the municipality comes and sees that this has been completed, and it is registered in KOSTRA, so we will have an overview of this. For me, it becomes a little strange that someone now comes into a situation where the Central Party will vote in favour of the Workers' Party's proposal subsidiaryly, for one could read in the Nation not long ago: «Ap leaves Sps ants' proposal in ants.» And on the other hand, ‘– Unforeseeable and unlucky,’ says Geir Pollestad about Ap’s myr right. [[Sp]] He asks whether Ap's environmental politicians have taken control of Ap's business politicians. – Sp is all the time a few years after Ap, Terje Aasland answers [[Ap]] It wasn't long ago. Then I wonder what has changed in this period, from this was said in the nations and to where we are now. Isn't this unpredictable? Isn't that how bad it is? Or is it really okay for the Center Party, what's going on? One takes away the rule, one takes away the dispensation, and then one gives this to a whole plan, which is the idea, and then you weaken this as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6364	It's amazing that a right-wing representative goes up to the pulpit and refers to social democracy policy being built on sound reason. Indeed, this debate has shown that it is, for there are three arguments that clarify, that remain, and that have not been contradicted by the bourgeois parties at all: The problem with the reduction of the beach zone is so very precisely because it is organized with a lot of exemptions from the municipalities. The same problem is now with the breeding of ants. It's the municipalities that decide, and it's random. It is much smarter to get it into the law, as the Workers' Party suggests. A representative from SV asked why we should not have a total ban. It's simple and obvious why you shouldn't have a total ban. This has the following reason: that all in this room, among others. needs food. A few years ago, we imported 524 tons of carrots from the United States. It is quite clear that many of the carrots that were transported across the Atlantic had far greater climate emissions than those that were produced on Smøla in More and Romesdal. You have to think about a theoretical Civita seminar to come up with a different conclusion. We have to be able to have some kind of ground sense in this big room as well. It is therefore necessary to provide for the possibility of producing local food, safe and good and top quality. This is a victory for the climate and justice, because it also goes on the downsizing of ants. It should have been included, of course, when this was adopted, but it is again because climate policy is based on an excessive injustice in the field by field, and there is no exception in this case. That is the progress that will now be adopted. That means that there should be an end to the Left only setting up Thon malls and highways on ants. The main emission sources must also be included in the accounts. This is how a fair climate policy works. The right-wing representative tried to fool around that electric car policy has nothing to do with justice. Obviously, it does. When the richest people in Norway are subsidized without restrictions, while a child’s mother at Tynset has to pay NOK 2 198 to take the train to Hamar and back again, it is quite clear that there is something completely ripping wrong with what social policy in Norway has become. Now we need a fairer Norway, which gets emissions down, and it's going to be a common people's turn.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6381	Terje Aasland has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6386	When I hear the representative Heggelund, it might have been fun to have a nice line change in this debate, but the matter is too serious for that. Some of the problem here is that the ant today has no specific legal protection, unfortunately. It is only in the regulation that myra has a clearly defined protection, and the regulation can be changed tomorrow if the government finds it too good. But we want to strengthen it and to include the protection of the ants in the law. Then a person would like to make some cheap rhetoric that this is a weakening of the protection of the ants. The intention behind the proposal, in the comments and in what I have said repeatedly now, is to strengthen the protection of ants, both in terms of new cultivation and in terms of what may be the major problem, which is degradation. I hope the government parties and the government take it seriously if that proposal is adopted, because the matter is too serious to be swept away in cheap rhetorical points.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6393	The representative, Geir Pollestad, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6398	Only a brief reading guide to the Council of State, which has confused itself into the nation. It's true that the Center Party criticized the Labour Party in this case. It should not always be so much until we criticize them, but let one thing be clear: the best thing – and our preferred option when this matter was dealt with – was our original proposal, i.e. to say no to a ban on the cultivation of ants for food production. The second and second best proposal is what we have put forward in the draft representative, which was the Labour Party's proposal from then on. The third best option we think is what the Labour Party has now presented, and that is what we support. That's what I'm thinking is the core of a pragmatic power policy, that if you don't get what you want the most, you take what's next, and you don't get it, you take what's third best. And it's not more dramatic in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6403	The representative, Ola Elvestuen, has also spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6408	At least when I hear the representative of Aasland, the signal from the Workers' Party to the Council of State is that the regulation should stand. But I see that what you decide is nevertheless to take this out of the law, and that doesn't help much what the representative says. Then there will be a legal question as to whether this can actually stand. And what you do in practice is delegate to the municipality – with them following it. And it's especially when the argument is that we have to do this for the farmers of Smøla, because we've just made a regulation that contained exceptions – based on the Smøla situation. So it's taken care of in the one that's going to apply. There is no doubt that this matter weakens the protection, and it shows the true climate face of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6413	I agree with the representative of Aasland on one point and it is that this matter is serious. Last autumn, the Workers' Party presented a climate budget in which they showed how to cut greenhouse gas emissions. Today, they present a proposal that weakens Norwegian climate policy, which in worst cases leads to an increase in emissions of up to 900000 tonnes of CO 2 equivalent each year. It corresponds to the annual emissions of 360 000 private cars. My simple question to the Workers' Party is: How has the Workers' Party intended to compensate for such an increase in emissions? Who's going to cut their discharges more so that you can mess around in the ants? Is it supposed to be parked 360 000 private cars? Do you – you are allowed to – close someone or say no to new oil fields? Is it the industry that's going to get tougher emission requirements, or is it the common people? Who shall compensate for the emission increase that the Workers' Party is now making in the worst case? It must be possible for the Workers' Party to respond if this climate budget from last autumn is to be a believer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6423	I need to ask a question, because it was said by the pulpit, and it was by the representative Sandtrøen, that there were so many exemptions. Then I really wonder where those numbers come from, for the COSTRA numbers, based on the rule we have, don't come until next year. So I'm wondering what real numbers the representative refers to when he says something like that from the Stortings pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6428	It will be possible to answer, but first it is the representative Stefan Heggelund, and then it is the representative Nils Kristen Sandtrøen.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6434	Very short. The emissions are going down with this government. The government has presented a climate plan towards 2030 that shows exactly how we achieve the 2030 emission targets. If the climate plan is followed, the climate target for Norway will be reached by 2030. When we dealt with the climate plan, no one in the Workers' Party thought that they might have to write something about how to compensate for increased ant discharges based on their policies. But we have to remember that it was at a time when no one fully knew what the Workers' Party was going to mean about ants this year. For every time there is a discussion about ants, the working party has to take a long round with itself to figure out what to think about ants. Think about it now that we could hear it – we read it in the text, but it would have been so nice to hear it from the Workers' Party itself – the admission that the Workers' Party is so divided in this question that when they create a sentence, formulate policies, they create some internal compromise that is very difficult to understand, but if you read what it says, it means something quite different than what the Workers' Party in this Chamber says it means. Simple and easy. Then it may be worth recalling at last that in the Labour Party's own climate budget, myr is not mentioned in a single word. They can't, because they don't agree on ants. They cannot use this important climate action in their own climate plan. Not in one word does it say about ants in the Workers' Party's alternative climate budget – incredible, but equally true.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6443	The representative of Nils Kristian Sandtrøen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6448	Fortunately, in our democracy, you can go in and see what dispensations each municipality gives. It is treated democratically in each municipality, so you don't have to have a complete KOSTRA report in order to get a picture of how this works, because it's simply to see what is adopted in different treatments in each municipality. I have been a local politician myself, so I know that this kind of decision is fortunately published after they are made. So to the question that is still unanswered – which is actually a bit incredible – and that no one will comment on: Our proposal now has consequences for Olav Thon, a sponsor of the right-wing government. He cannot build his malls on ants, as he wishes. It also has implications for motorways. The reduction of ants has the greatest consequences. It is included in this comprehensive bill, and that is quite sensible and wise policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6455	It may be useful to check that statistics occasionally, because unfortunately, there are no exemptions that lead to the largest degradation of land in Norway, there are plans. Land disposal is planned which involves the largest re-disposal of land, including in most of these press areas. One thing we need clarity about is that the representative Sandtrøen now said that this means that Olav Thon can't build a mall, but that's not what the Workers' Party has proposed. It's a rather important question that might require clarification. In the first paragraph of the proposal, which is to be the paragraph of the law, one says that the department can provide guidance for innovation, nothing else. This means that the department does not have the right to provide evidence of degradation; it only has the right to provide evidence of cultivation. The next part of the paragraph states that the application for new cultivation or reduction is to be made — a reduction that is not authorised under the paragraph to prescribe, because it has been said to be only for new cultivation. That is what the proposal says, that is what is written ad verbatim in the proposal. What one needs here, and which I think would have been okay, is just a round two to clarify what you've really suggested here. It's very difficult for any government, state council, state administrator or anything, when we talk here about the law of the land, to decide what it is that is the criterion, when you just open up to make regulations about one. In that case, the Ministry may not prescribe or prescribe a reduction because it is not included in the paragraph. It is clarified that only new cultivation can be provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6464	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6469	If the Workers' Party is in favour of a ban on the reduction of ants, it is only to vote in favour of the SV's proposal. If you vote against that proposal, you are not in favour of a ban on degradation. Then you want the injustice of which you are so busy in posts to continue. And then I want to ask you an answer to my question: How has the Workers' Party intended to compensate for the increased emissions of the increased regrowing of bogs that are now being raised by removing the ban from the legal text? How will the Workers' Party compensate for, in the worst case, an emission equivalent to 360 000 private cars per year?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6476	This will not be answered by the Haltbrecken in this debate, because others have not asked for the floor on case No. 15th At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, 16 and 17 are treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6507	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6514	We are dealing with two proposals for document 8, one from the MDG and one from the Red. Let me start with the proposal that comes from the MDG, which is about Norway being a global leader in the fight for climate change. It is probably an intention that I believe most people agree with – at least the Labour Party agrees and believes that Norway should do more both nationally and internationally. Then we refer to the approximately 200 proposals we had to strengthen Norway's climate policy, which we dealt with about a month ago, and which, unfortunately – all of them – were voted down by the bourgeois majority. But this matter is primarily about two things. One is that we are going to wind up Norwegian oil production. No matter what you think about it, there's not something we're just doing with solving proposals here in the Storting, so we're not going to vote for any of those proposals. There have also been some proposals today that refer to the IEA report. It's a very exciting report, which will certainly change a lot of the debate on energy policy, national and international, so one needs a little more review and reading instead of going straight to the conclusion with a loose proposal over the table now. But I hope that all parties read this report. Not least, I hope that the MDG, and also in and of itself SV, reads the report, because it is also about us having a massive deployment of renewable energy. Earlier today, we voted on a matter where it was a great desire in a local environment to build wind turbines. The SV and the Greens voted against. I hope that those parties see that we're going to get the electrified world, we need massive renewable energy construction. We also need more renewable energy in Norway. The other proposals are that we need stronger climate targets. I am very much in favour of having stronger climate targets, and that is what we are going to deal with in Stortingen next week. That is why I am very pleased that SV and MDG are voting for the Workers' Party's proposal next week on stronger climate targets for Norway, but that is the case we believe the proposals on climate targets belong to. So finally, Red has promoted a proposal for a fair climate policy. I am very pleased that Red has adopted the Workers' Party's message in climate policy that we should have a fair climate policy. The core of the Workers' Party's climate policy is that it should be fair, cut emissions and create jobs. Then some suggestions have been made, and again I refer to the more than 300 proposals that deal with very much of the same. But we believe that the proposals of the Workers' Party promoted, and which I also believe Red voted for, many of them, were better formulated, more precise and more effective. We refer to those proposals and will therefore not vote for them today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6531	Now I am delighted to be the case rapporteur for a relatively comprehensive proposal from the Red Party. A fair environmental policy with emissions cuts as monks is called the proposal. The proposals are in eleven points, and I'm not going to reproduce everyone here. Red is not represented in the Committee on Energy and the Environment, and therefore the proposals have not been promoted by any of its members, but I see them as proposals in the Chamber. The proposer addresses several interesting questions, and I think the committee would like to discuss several of them. However, the Stortinget has just dealt with, in particular, 8 April this year with a very comprehensive communication, namely the climate plan, where there were a whole of 475 proposals. It was spent a long time, it was discussed a lot, both in the Stortingen and in the public, and it would be natural that these proposals were promoted in that context. Otherwise, the Council of State has a very comprehensive response and a letter commenting on the proposals. Although I represent the Progress Party, I think I am speaking on behalf of all the parties in the Energy and Environment Committee when I refer to the Announcement. St. 13 for 2020-2021, where all parties fully describe their climate policy and primary policies. That is why the setting is relatively short in this case. Finally, I would like to thank the members of the Committee for their good cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6544	It is not difficult to agree with the proposer and his desire to make Norway a global leader in climate change, but we are in no way in agreement with the solution, which is to set an end date for the petroleum industry in the country to 2035. That would be unlikely to be necessary given the consequences this might have for jobs and for the change we would have had to have exposed the inhabitants for in a very short time. For Right, there is a goal to stop, not development. This is why we have allowed large sums of research, technology development and traditional industries to reduce emissions and take care of our jobs. Hydro Karmøy is a good example of this, where in 2015 we ran 1.5 billion. kr to a pilot who shows that one can produce aluminium with 15 pst. lower energy consumption, resulting in a record low level of direct CO 2 emissions from electrolysis. This is just one of many examples of how this government works. Secondly, we have committed ourselves internationally through the Paris Agreement. As a result, we have developed national emission targets, so we have just addressed the Climate Plan for 2021–2030, which shows how we take responsibility for achieving these targets in Norway. It's worth noting that there's a lot of agreement about the 2030 climate change targets in Stortinget, but to cut all emissions in Norway by 80 pst, as the proposer wants, there's actually no plan for. In order to do this work, there must be realistic objectives and measures, and then we must be a nation that will implement these measures. And not least, people have to be in this transition. At the beginning of this case, reference is made to a speech by the Secretary-General of the United Nations held in December 2020, where he said that the human race is waging war against nature, and that it is a suicide. But in the same speech, he said that governments now have to start thinking about the pricing of carbon, and that tax returns have to be imposed on forureins, and that's exactly what we're doing. In another speech, to the Nordic Council, the Secretary-General has said that the UN is working for investment in resilient industries, and that the countries of our history have been the main drivers of ambitious climate action and sustainable development, and that world needs our leadership now more than anything else. We're not in the goal, but it turns out that we're looking well at global levels, and sometimes it's better to hurry slowly in the right direction than to panic.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6564	The government's oil policy increases the risk of living with very serious consequences of the climate crisis. Last week, the report came from one of the world's leading oil organizations, the International Energy Agency. The report states that if we are to avoid the worst climate change, we must ensure that the temperature increase is kept to a maximum of 1.5 degrees, and no new oil and gas expansions can be allowed after 2021. The report shows that the government's oil policy is out of date and increases the risk of living with a serious climate crisis. In addition, with the government's oil policy, we are at risk of having a Community spending bomb. When the world is going to free itself from fossil energy, it's not a good business idea to pump up more and more oil from more vulnerable areas. The production of fossil energy must fall quickly, and we know that we have found what is needed in the years to come. It is nothing new, the world's climate scientists have said for years that we have found more coal, oil and gas than we can burn if we are to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement. The new thing is that the energy industry itself, in the form of the International Energy Agency, says that. The IEA is known to be ultra-conservative when it comes to climate targets and oil exploration. They have long been committed to increasing fossil energy production, and there are therefore also parts of the Norwegian environmental movement at the end of the 1970s led to a fight against Norwegian membership of the IEA. Does this new report have any impact on government policy? No, the government has determined that it does not get it. What we need now is a management of Norway that understands the seriousness, which makes sure that we get started with the change that is needed. Norway has enormous opportunities. The competence we have built up in the oil industry will be very useful in the future. bet on sea wind. The fact that some of the parties do not want to bet on sea wind and thus send thousands of yard workers out into unemployment is not understandable. Last week the god of the oil lobby spoke: the time has come to set new oil and gas fields in motion. It's time for action. In the case of an incurrency, SV is included in proposal No. 2 in the setting, which is becoming a global star in the climate change. It's not supposed to be there. I'll take up the suggestions SV is on.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6579	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6584	The IEA report ‘Net Zero by 2050’ has removed the ground wall under Norwegian oil and climate policy. The IEA, formerly known as the faithful defenders of the Norwegian oil industry, now determines that all countries must stop looking for more oil and gas now, if we are to have any hope of limiting global warming to 1.5 degrees. I'm recording that the gray parties, along with the oil lobby, in the light of this new IEA report, repeat a couple of old talking points. One is that it is stupid to shut down the Norwegian oil industry overnight, also called the ‘shut off the tap overnight’. Fortunately, there are no parties I know that have suggested it. On the other hand, the MDG proposes to establish an oil commission, where authorities, businesses, employee organisations and research and knowledge environments cooperate on a plan to maintain employment and create new jobs while phased out the oil industry, as Germany has done with coal. The MDG believes that such a crash and conversion is much smarter than a crash landing in the market, on which 2014 was a taste. There will be a likely consequence of continuing with today's Norwegian maximum oil policy. The second major talk point of oil politicians and lobbyists is that Norway cannot be the first country to stop looking for oil. To that it is just to say that it is too late for Norway to be first out, for both Denmark, France, Costa Rica, Ireland and Portugal have already agreed to stop or pause in new oil and gas extraction for climate reasons. Unfortunately, the world is not on track to meet the 2-degree target, and much less the 1.5-degree target. In February, the UN Secretary-General, Guterres, concluded that the climate targets had so far been declared by the world’s country, were only enough to cut 1 pst. global emissions by 2030. It was not better because all 1.5-degree scenarios require massive carbon uptake from the atmosphere to an extent that many researchers are unsure if at all possible. Therefore, in this case, we propose raising Norway’s climate target to 80 pst. by 2030, tightening the Climate Act and introducing requirements for climate budgets at national, regional and local level. For Norway is rich, unlikelyly rich, and we have the opportunity to pursue a much more ambitious climate policy than most other countries. We also propose that Norway follow the United States by working for a moratorium on oil extraction in the Arctic. With that, I take up MDG's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6599	The representative Per Espen Stoknes has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6604	In this case, our proposals are rejected by the Committee. We think that's a shame. The fact that the government parties reject our proposal that revenues from a higher CO 2 tax should not go to reduce taxes on wealth, company profits and high income is understandable, because this government does give flat tax increases to people most and tax cuts to those who have the most. In the message, they even say that a cut in the wealth tax is a climate action, which is probably taking greenwashing to a new level. It is more surprising, we think, that the red-greens do not support our proposal that the revenue from a higher CO 2 tax should not go to the tax cuts on wealth, company profits or high income. I hope not that means that at a red-green election season for the autumn, for which we are all working, we will continue the environmental policy that the government is pursuing, which is to allow people in the districts that depend most on the car to be hit hardest by an increase in the CO 2 tax, while those who have more money in the central struts can still be subsidized to the most expensive electric cars. All the parties on the red-green side want a new climate policy. It's going to be fair. It is good that the Workers' Party now takes after Red, at least in the rhetoric. There's a piece of politics left before they're there, but okay. We should also be able to gather on some simple principles in this matter for this – we have been open to discuss, but there has been little interest in it in dealing with this matter. The important thing is that an unfair environmental policy will make it difficult to bring people to grips with the major changes needed to stop climate change. We come up with a number of proposals that we believe will help ensure that climate policy cuts both emissions and inequalities at the same time – proposals that, as I can see, are rejected by the Committee. Our goal is that those who pollute the most, who are the most, take their share of the responsibility for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. We want them to be like, for example, waster with electricity to the year-round heated swimming pool or heated drive-in to huge cabins in the mountain, will pay something extra for it, and we hope that we are proposals that the other red-green parties will agree with is a good idea. It is quite possible, at least I believe, to reconsider whether Red's proposals cannot be supported. In any case, the choice will decide, and there will be room, I think, to get an impact on important demands also from our side in order to ensure a fair environmental policy in Norway for the future. With that, I address our suggestions in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6628	Then the representative Björn Moxnes has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6634	It's always a bit demanding when one has 3 minutes to comment on dozens of different proposals in two Document 8 proposals dealing with a wide range of subjects, all with far-reaching implications. I think I'll take a little bit of an overarching approach to it, and then I'll get a better follow-up with further questions as soon as possible. I would say that Norway has an ambitious climate policy. We were the third country in the world, the first Western player, who delivered a stronger goal to the Paris Agreement. We're going to cut our output by 50 pst, up by 55 pst. by 2030. Not only do we have a target. We've had that in Norwegian politics for a long time, but we have a plan for how to achieve that goal. Never before has a government provided such a detailed and ambitious and binding climate plan with such concrete policies and with detailed calculations of tons of emissions. This means that we don't only have one goal, but it's reasonable that we can achieve it, at least if that plan is followed, and the government intends to do it. There's a bunch of suggestions here, as I said. Some of them think about what's going on about different climate budgets. It's e.g. Proposals to include requirements on national climate budgets and their action plans and to extend them to municipalities and county municipalities. As the representative of Aukrust said, climate laws should be discussed in Stortinget quite immediately, and one might come back to some of those issues, but I would nevertheless say that climate laws are a superior law. It reinforces Norway's climate goals while providing flexibility for various policy solutions, choices and instruments. Through the climate agreement with the EU – and that is an important point, given that some of the parties in the hall are against him – Norway receives a legally binding emission budget for non-quota emissions. This means that the climate target is not voluntary either. There must be one now. Climate laws require the government to submit its annual status through a emissions budget, and the way in which that budget is to be met is, as stated in the Climate Change Plan. Then it is that climate laws now require government and big business, but not municipalities and county councils. This does not mean that municipalities do not have an important role in the conversion of Norway. They have a decisive role. However, it is likely that the municipalities are not responsible for all greenhouse gas emissions within their municipal boundaries. In other words, climate laws include emissions for which municipalities are not responsible or have authority to regulate. This makes it a little demanding that one should nevertheless be charged with a responsibility for them, as is provided in some of the proposals. Fortunately, the municipalities are doing very well with climate plans and budgets. The Environment Directorate has created a tool that allocates greenhouse gas statistics to municipalities for the benefit of politicians and citizens. We manage the climate rate scheme, which is a great success. We guide, and we help create municipal climate budgets. So it has now received, both in Oslo, Trondheim, Bergen, Hamar, Kristiansand, in Akershus, in the North and in several places. So I want to say there's a lot of positive happening in the municipalities. The government supports it, but achieving the objectives of the climate law is the responsibility of the government and the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6647	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6652	I have a simple question for the Council of State: does the Council of State disagree with the conclusions of the latest report to the International Energy Agency that we cannot allow any new oil and gas expansions after 2021 if we are to reach the 1.5 degree target?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6663	This council had the joy of renting out the program work in its party, Left, where we adopted a new game program in April. In that party program, the Left adopted a policy where we say that we do not want to operate new licensing awards in new areas. So I think the answer to that is self – that my party and I are some people in that it should be the policy ahead. Now the IEA has not recommended a policy. They have provided an analysis of how it is possible to reach the 1.5 degree target with some assumptions. So this government has a government platform that says something about how to run the petroleum policy. This includes: on the protection of vulnerable areas, such as Lofoten, Vesterålen, Senja, Møreflaket, Skagerrak, icebergsona moved southwards, etc. I'm glad, but it's also the government's policy to highlight new areas for search and extraction.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6670	It is good to hear that the Council of State agrees with the conclusions of the International Energy Agency. Then is my next question: why does the government then propose to break the Paris Agreement's goal of limiting the global temperature increase to a maximum of 1.5 degrees through a record high call in the 25th concession round?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6677	The government does not at all intend to break the Paris Agreement, on the contrary. The government is among the first in the world to strengthen its climate goal under the Paris Agreement with a mandatory plan to achieve the goals, where we will make a significant contribution and cut our emissions significantly. It's not to break the Paris Agreement, it's to comply with it to the best of our ability. Then there is real disunity in this room between the parties, and also between the parties in the government, on aspects of oil and gas policy. That means that then one has to negotiate and find solutions, whether it's about icebergsona, the Lofoten, the Vesterål and Senja, the oil tax regime or about concession rounds and TFO rounds. I believe that the representative Haltbrecken and his party are very aware of that, at least they have considerable experience with it. Then there's a choice for the fall. I'm glad it's going to be, and I hope that a lot of voters want to vote on my party, and I'm going to believe that the representative Haltbrecken will give the same message to those who might think they'd vote on his party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6686	The last thing I can confirm, but what the council says, is not entirely in touch. On my first question, the Council of State answers that he agrees with the IEA conclusion that no new oil and gas fields can be allocated if we are to reach the 1.5 degree target. On my second question, why does the government propose to break the 1.5 degree goal by assigning record-breaking fields through the 25th concession round, the Council of State answers that the government does not commit to breaking the 1.5 degree goal – but by implementing a policy that, according to the IEA, is contrary to the 1.5 degree goal. I think I have to ask you how the Council of State manages this illogical end.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6691	Firstly, under the Paris Agreement, countries are committed to reducing their own national emissions. It is the root of international climate policy, and it is a principle that is quite important to maintain it, in order to say it carefully. That's what Norway has committed itself to under the Paris Agreement. That's what we're doing now while emissions in Norway are going down, and that's what the climate plan shows us how to continue, so that we reach our new and ambitious climate targets. Secondly, it is important to say that it is not such that the IEA suggests that one does it one way or another. What they've done is they're making a very interesting report with a scenario of how to reach the 1.5 degree goal in energy. Something that has changed since previous reports, including: that they place less emphasis on CCS and wood-planting uptake, which means that there is less room for new fossil resources and that there is a need for significantly greater renewable energy deployment. And of course, it's an interesting scenario to study, and it's an important report. But the climate policy of the government is well described in the climate plan, he meets the objectives of the Paris agreement, and he will ensure that emissions in Norway continue to decline.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6698	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6705	There is one thing that amazes me in the matter we are now discussing, because the matter is about making Norway a leading star in the global climate change. Then I ask myself, what standards are the proposals from the Greens set to be a global leader? After the President of the United States delivered his climate goals, we experienced a panegyrian tribute from the Greens – a panegyrian tribute to climate goals that are considerably weaker than the climate goals of the Norwegian government, which the same party rightly criticises in harsh order. Why is it with applause and cheers when the world's second biggest polluter comes up with a climate policy that is contrary to the 1.5 degree target, which has been strongly criticised by American environmental movements, and which – believe it or not – is weaker than the Norwegian government's climate policy? And the last thing is an art piece to do. The United States has a considerable responsibility for what has happened to the world. Therefore, the emission obligations the US president has said are willing to deal with, too weak. When one pays tribute to an irresponsiblely weak climate policy from the world's second largest polluter, one can wonder how low the list is to be a global leader. The Green Party seems to be very pleased as long as we have a president who talks about the fight against the climate crisis, but blah-blah is what is going to get us out of the climate crisis. We in SV live after the slogan ‘action speak louder than words’. The climate crisis needs action and emissions reduction – not more Heads of State just talking about the importance of climate change. With this tribute of the American President, the Greens are standing in the same line as the many Right-wing politicians when they clapped the climate-stripping young people on their shoulders a few years ago and said, "It's good you're engaged.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6723	I felt a little need to be a voice for industry and value creation and jobs, and a little less blah-blah-blah, as was said from previous speakers. In this case, proposals have been made to strengthen Norway’s climate change target to 80 pst. Economic budgets are to be replaced by emission budgets, and we are to end our petroleum activity – in summary: increase expenditure, cut revenue. You almost get the impression that you're in a championship in who can be the tallest. The Green Party says they're going to rock the world, but I'm probably thinking that they're going to start destroying the country. It is completely chemically free from the consequences of the proposals that have been taken up. Had it been a serious proposal, the consequences would have been addressed. We have just discussed – in this committee, in this Chamber – a climate plan with 500 proposals, but it was obviously not enough for those behind this proposal. How are we going to define a guide star? What can Norway contribute to the fight for lower emissions? What can we offer that can make us a leading star, that gets others to do? Yes, we can ring about the petroleum industry. At the same time, we are going to ring the ring around the bet on emission reductions – because there is no contradiction, that is a prerequisite. There are two countries that have managed to cut their emissions, and that is the United Kingdom and the United States. Both have done so by replacing coal with gas. And it is only in Norway that we have a discussion about whether Norwegian gas contributes to better climate accounting or not. We would like to discuss what is best in the longer term, and where Norway stands in 50 years, but in the short term, for the first 10 years, it is absolutely necessary that Norway contribute gas to Europe so that they can phase out coal. This is Norway's best contribution to the Paris Agreement. If Germany were to replace its gas consumption with coal, emissions would increase by 300 million. tonnes — six times the total emissions in Norway. When Baltic Pipe opens next year, Poland will be able to reduce its emissions by 80 million. tonnes, which alone is one and a half times Norway’s emissions. Greenhouse gases need to be reduced, but energy production needs to rise. It kind of falls away from the whole debate. We have about a billion people on this planet who don't have access to energy, and the world is growing with 80 million people a year. It's Germany every year. Norway is a rich country. We're going to be fine. But is it right for us to deny other countries access to energy? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6738	It's possible that blah-blah is an international language, that's not good to say. But the President can recommend that we generally stick to Norwegian.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6743	I did not intend to speak in this debate, because we have spent a lot of time in winter and spring at climate level, and we have adopted a comprehensive policy up to 2030 to cut Norway's climate change emissions. But after listening to the last few hours, especially the debate on ants, with the Workers' Party, and then we have proposals from the Red Party and the Green Party, it occurred to me that we have to point to a spat in which the opposition stands. The representative Lars Haltbrecken called for a piece of art. I can frame some art pieces over the last eight years. We have an electric car policy that is the most successful in the world. It is probably as close as possible to a global star. So Norway is the country in the world that has the third most electric cars after China and the United States. This government has established the climate rate. There are hundreds of millions who go out to local contributions that cut emissions and create new solutions. This government has established Nysnø, a conversion fund to cut emissions. This government has delivered over 17 billion dollars. kr for carbon capture and storage. It's about as close as you get to a global lead star when it comes to carbon capture and storage as a whole project. No other country in the world has done such a big whole project. This government has delivered 2.3 billion. kr to a floating sea wind farm, Hywind Tampen. It's actually close by being a global leader star, too, at least when you look at what else we do in our supplier industry, and at what we have regulated by areas of floating sea winds. We've delivered a hydrogen strategy, put money into it. We've discussed biogas a lot here. And not least we've done our homework; we've adopted a climate plan that's very offensive, and we've adopted a climate law. Then we come to the opposition. Who is the Green, Red and SV environmental party to cooperate with? We negotiated an oil tax package last fall. SV exited the door. And it wasn't the government that was criticized, which had the most offensive oil policy, but it was the Center Party and the Workers' Party. The centre party does not want an SV in a government. What climate policy are we left with? Then we've got red that doesn't want sea wind. And then we have the Greens who want sea wind. Then we have the Workers' Party, who don't know what they want with ants – they didn't know what they wanted with the CO 2 tax, and it's still very unclear. They also don't want the most electric cars, they want the cheapest electric cars. It's unclear what volume it gives, and we need volume to cut emissions. So it's a little bit unclear to me what the opposition really was thinking until 2030.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6769	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 16 and 17.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6786	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6793	Maridalen is a valley of rich and beautiful nature. Last afternoon I had the pleasure of a great bike ride in the valley. Here it is rich nature and a well maintained cultural landscape. Therefore, Maridalen was also protected as a landscape protection area on 31 August 2001. The purpose of the protection is: ‘to preserve the beautiful and distinctive natural and cultural landscape of the Maria Valley as a whole, with the distinctive character of the agricultural landscape of the past, and with the biological, geological and cultural historical elements that contribute to giving the area its valuable character’. On the basis of the Protection Regulation, a management plan has been adopted which sets out detailed guidelines for the management of the site. This management plan includes, inter alia: emphasis on measures to avoid re-growth in some of the areas. Priority is given to the following actions: necessary measures to avoid loss of protection, such as measures to clear and maintain valuable areas in the process of restocking, grubbing and beating or grazing; correct actions based on background that are relatively simple to implement, such as the clearing of stone walls, etc. measures to improve and restore, for example, the care and re-establishment of all and trees that are characteristic of the landscape; Simple measures combining outdoor and cultural memories have also been implemented. Voluntary organisations play an important role in protecting our protected areas. Therefore, there are also a number of items on the State budget from which they can apply for support for this work. SV believes it is important to give priority to supporting concrete carnage work, but we do not believe it is right to give one organisation in Oslo the distribution of similar organisations in other parts of our long-term country. That is why we are opposed to the proposal that is being raised from the Central Party. We believe that we need to treat equally all the organisations that work with care in the protection areas of the country, and that they should be able to apply on equal terms from the different budget lines that are. I had hoped to end this day with a great bike ride in the Maridalen. I think it might be a little ghost of that, but the valley is going to lie there tomorrow and the day after tomorrow as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6819	As the representative Haltbrecken said, Maridalen is a great place with rich and beautiful nature and cultural history, where people and animals have put clear traces behind them. In 2002, therefore, it was decided to give the area the status of a landscape protection area, and the justification stated that it would: ‘maintain the beautiful and distinctive natural and cultural landscape of the Maria Valley as a whole, with the distinctive character of the agricultural landscape of the past, and with the biological, geological and cultural historical elements that contribute to giving the area its valuable character’. The protective values in Maridalen have arisen through use and require active care to pass. It is also laid down in the management plan for the area. Caring measures are about to clear and open areas that are in the process of growing again because of a change in use. Much of the use has changed because agriculture has changed, but also because of, for example, provisions for drinking water, which make grazing in previously used areas difficult to implement. The areas must therefore be kept open by active clearing and enabling them to be closed. In this protection area, Maridalens Friends have been committed for many years to maintain the values that are the cause of protection. So strongly has the association's commitment been that they are referred to several places in the management plan as what we have to be able to determine as a determining factor in maintaining the protection values. In Norway, volunteering is strong. This is a good example of the interaction between state and volunteering, and it is a good example of how protection and use succeed in a good way when you have a local and voluntary commitment. The work carried out by the Association has been supported by an annual allocation from the Municipality of Oslo, despite the fact that it is the State, at the State Manager, who is responsible for the area of protection. Oslo Municipality also owns large areas and farms in Maridalen with the same background as I mentioned before, namely the strict drinking water regulations for Oslo drinking water source. And there we are at the heart of the matter: the Municipality of Oslo has now reduced the allocation, which will weaken the work of safeguarding the protection values of the Maridalen, and that will once again weaken the grounds for protection. We note that the government has now given a one-off grant to the Friends Association to compensate for the loss of income, but with the efforts of Maridalen's Friends, and the importance they have to safeguard the value of protection in the area, the government should have provided greater predictability. It is therefore the State that is responsible for the area, and with the clear commitment to Maridalens Fänner contained in the management plan, the State should also recognise the importance of the interaction with volunteering here by ensuring the work of government-predictable sub-financing. I take up the proposal of the Center Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6841	The representative Ole André Myhrvold has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6846	The Maridalen is a very important landscape protection area. It is important for Oslo, and it is important for Norway. It is important that we take care of the Maridalen, because as has been said, it is a place of rich and beautiful nature. This proposal comes from the Central Party. I dare therefore remind the President that the Senter party is a party that does not have much to do with this municipality. It's a party that builds a lot of its rhetoric on that there should be a distinction between people who live in Oslo, and those who live outside Oslo. It is a party that consistently believes that appropriations for the Municipality of Oslo should be reduced. For example, the Central Party’s Marit Arnstad has been out saying that collective investment in Oslo should be reduced by reducing urban growth agreements. It is a party that consistently believes that Oslo should get less. It's a party that doesn't see the particular challenges Oslo has as a big city. It is a party that, with its customary rhetoric, creates a kind of image of an elitist Oslo – that here lives only the country's elite, who sit and decide what things should be like in the rest of the country, without people elsewhere in Norway being listened to at all by people down in Oslo. Then it is good that they have found something that they think is nice with our city. As a representative of this municipality, I am pleased that there is one thing at Oslo that the Senterpartie likes. Then I hope, and expect – for the government, that this has been resolved in the revised national budget with a budget of 400,000 kroner – that the Central Party will vote for what is proposed by the government in the revised national budget. It would have been nice to get a confirmation of this today. Otherwise, we wish the representative Jan Bøhler and the Center Party good luck in finding Oslo things that the Centre Party can now try to profile itself in order to get a representative from this municipality, which they attack so often.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6857	I can easily join the case spokesman's painting of the Maridalen as both a landscape protection area and an open-air area. It's good that he makes it possible to enjoy it. So if it sounds like the committee should consider splitting on a bicycle lamp to the representative Haltbrecken, he can also enjoy the area in the evening. Maridalens Vänner makes an important effort to contribute to the carnage work in Maridalen. The starting point for the case is that they got a challenging financial situation due to an unexpected loss of income. For this reason, the government of the revised national budget has proposed to spend $400,000 to provide a contribution to Maridalen's Friends. The purpose of the unit is to preserve Maridalen's current bustet and environment, and one works, among other things. to maintain cultural landscapes in the Maridalen Landscape Protection Area through conservation measures. The management of protected areas and the follow-up to management plans, as in Maridalen, are the responsibility of the administrative board. For the budget of the Ministry of Climate and Environment, funds for care and other management measures in the areas of protection are allocated by the Directorate of the Environment to those responsible for the area of protection. The money is allocated according to an assessment of how they meet the criteria and the priorities of the budget. The person who is the administrative board, i.e. the national park or protected area management board, the national administrator or the municipality determines how care and other administrative measures are to be carried out. For some measures, external actors are hired. In the Maridalen Landscape Protection Area, the Governor of Oslo and Viken are responsible for the management of the Protected Site. It's important that Maridalen's friends have a good dialogue with them about the care of the area. The Maridalen is also registered as a valuable cultural landscape. The Ministry of Climate and Environment has the means to support the work of voluntary organisations to take care of nature and the cultural environment. There's a total of seven extra arrangements for that. Common to them is that one grants support upon application. The design will be broken down by criteria in line with the attached regulation. In November, and through the Department of Climate and Environment's circulars on the website of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Environment, the rules of competition and when they can be searched are made public. So it's in today's arrangements that Maridalen's friends can get credit for the government budget for their business, but they have to search in line with all the other organizations. Then the application deadline has expired for this year, but they can search from next year if they want to. The government's commitment to the revised national budget is a temporary transitional support for the association to help in the important carnage work in the state protection area for the current year. That is what the proposers for document 8 today have been committed to. I thought it was an important commitment, and I hope that Maridalen's Friends will now be able to continue their important work to help with the carnage work in what is undoubtedly an important protection area and a valuable area for the entire population of Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6872	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6877	Any protected area must have a management plan and the management plan must comply with the protection objective. Each protected area changes over time. It grows, and thus it is living places. This means that the management plan needs to be carried out every year, and some have to do the job. In this case, Maridalen's friends are doing the job, as the Council of State said, in consultation with the State Manager. My question then is: How does the Council of State see that a non-profit organisation is responsible for the practical implementation of the management plan in consultation with the State Manager, as we see here, through the Friends of Maridalen?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6884	I see that in a positive light. It is clear that the government administrator is responsible for this type of protection area, but it is not unusual for a co-operation with external actors to carry out much of the practical and important work, in this case the care of the area. My understanding is that there is a cooperation that works well, and that the organisation Maridalens Fänner contributes very much positively in this way. I assume that the representative agrees, because he supports the proposal to provide them with support, which the government has chosen to do in the revised national budget. So the kind of cooperation between responsible state authority and external actors, which this organisation is an example of, I look at positively. But it's clear -- this is something that needs to be decided in the individual case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6891	What's at the heart here is that the so-called external actor is a non-profit organization. The non-profit organisation has done this work so far, and it has been funded not by the state, but by the Municipality of Oslo. Then the appropriations from the Municipality of Oslo fall more or less away, and the question is future. What's great about Maridalen's friends, the case and the principal, is that there's a non-profit that accounts for this. It's not a bid, it's not a three-year contract, it's a long-term, professional job that gets a lot of recognition, and my question is, isn't this an exemplary way of doing it, so in consultation with the government manager, it's a non-profit organization that's in charge of practical work over the years and has the population with it? Isn't there something that should be passed on?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6899	When it comes to Maridalen's Friends, they have been given permanent support from the Municipality of Oslo for many years to do what they do. Then the red-green plural in Oslo has chosen to cut into it supported. The organisation has to be placed in a required position, all the time allowed to search different project media, etc. which is available from the state side, had expired. That is why we have chosen to make a commitment to the revised national budget, so that we ensure that the important work is continued this year. The general arrangement is that we have a number of different outlets to search for funds from, including an organisation like Maridalen's Friends. I believe that as a starting point, it is probably also the best way to allocate government funds to work on this type of protection area.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6906	I hear that the Council of State shares the view of the Central Party on the importance of the work of Maridalen's Friends – and that's good. We are pleased that the preliminary funding of this voluntary organisation has now been put in place for the current year, but Maridalen's Friends are an important part of the management plan for the protection values in Maridalen. Should not this type of voluntary organisation have any greater financial predictability in order to carry out its work in line with the State protection plans than the more or less unforeseeable arrangements that can be applied for?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6911	This is in itself a classic discussion, which we have a lot in Stortingen when it comes to funding voluntary organizations. In different areas in different parts of the budget, there is probably a slightly different practice of providing a fixed base of government budget to individual organisations, sometimes named in the budget, or of relying only on application-based schemes for project funds — or a combination. So it's probably not a very consistent practice from area to area. In this area, the starting point for the government and the state is that it is based on different entries that can be searched. There, in my view, it is good with funds, which an absolute can use to carry on an important work. What we're talking about here is probably a special case, because it's an organization that's had a fixed promise from the Municipality of Oslo and based on it. I understand that it is demanding when it falls away with one thing. But the starting point for what we have put into the revised national budget is that now we are going to support the fact that carnival work can be carried on at a good level for the current year, and then we have many posts that are possible to search for in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6918	In the revised national budget, Maridalens Friends received NOK 400000. This morning the Council of State could inform the Committee that this money was allocated to the organisation without any application being made. In its letter to the Committee today, the Council of State wrote that, in the light of a meeting on 15 April, the government became aware of the organisation's difficult financial situation and that, on the basis of this, it was the Ministry that designed a proposal for support via the revised budget. My question is: will the Council open the money bag to other organisations, similar to those around the country, who are tending to care for our protection areas, and who have a difficult financial situation? If the answer is no to that question, why not?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6925	We have a lot of money available to support such work. And so that's how I informed my letter to the committee today, that there are some deadlines for applying for such support. I understand that in the case we're talking about here, it's imperative to stay with an organisation that's based on a firm commitment from the Municipality of Oslo – which was then cut by the red-green plurality of the city board just before Christmas. Therefore, I believe that it is a natural matter to include in the newly revised national budget, when one is going to revise the budget. It is true that no funds have been allocated on the basis of an application, and it is based on the fact that the entry under these funds is not an application-based entry. But we were in the ministry making great attention to the demanding situation they were in, both from them directly through meeting requests and in meetings and in particular through this representative proposal from Stortinget, which was also delivered at that time. And I agree with both the representatives who have seen that proposal, and others in that it's natural that we give this promise this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6932	I understand that the answer to my question was no, and that the other organisations are referred to the ordinary grant items, where it needs to be applied for. If I am wrong, I ask the Council of State to correct me. I have questions for follow-up: It is correct, as the council says, that the post from which Maridalen's friends have received support is not one of the posts with applications. Then the question is, is there any information given to other organisations that they can receive support from this post if they ask for a meeting with the ministry, as Maridalens Vänner did?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6939	It is enough that a large number of entries in both my own budget and in other budgets are not application-based, one of which is based on political considerations in the government when we make proposals, and in the UK when a budget is adopted, wants to meet different good intentions. In this context, I would like to stress that the revised national budget is not yet approved, so it is up to the Stortinget whether they are some of them with the Ministry that it is right from the point of view of the situation to allow funds for Maridalen's friends under this post this year. Of course, it has no obligation for the Storting to adopt, but in a democracy such as the Norwegian, elected politicians are the ones who allow money over the budget. Some posts are application-based, and that's good, and some are not. That's probably the way it should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6944	Since the Council of State did not correct my perception of the answer to the first question, I perceive that my perception was correct. The organisation we are talking about last year became aware of the loss of income in good time before the deadline for applying for several housing grant schemes expired on 15 January. The question then is: was it included in the assessment of the ministry's examination of the draft revised national budget that the organisation had not applied for these support schemes despite the fact that they should be aware of the economic situation in which they were located?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6951	Now I don't think about what one date last year the party traps of Mr. Haltbrecken and the rest of the City Council in Oslo adopted the budget for this year. I'm assuming it was pretty much the same before this year. The deadline for searching the funds for the one post had already expired, it was in November, and in other posts it was already 15 January. Clearly, we have discussed various aspects of this matter in meeting with the organisation. I think they've explained the challenges they've been put into, in a good way. And it's clear that it's going from relying on firm, persuasive approaches to having to turn around and find income from others, whether it's private donations, commercial enterprise or by searching, I understand that I can be demanding for an organization – to get around in a few weeks to do it. I would also like to underline, and there is certainly an answer to that question the representative also thinks he should have an answer to, that the government's starting point is that there are project-based and application-based posts that we allow money for this kind of purpose. But I'll say this is a special case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6960	First I would like to say that what the representative Haltbrecken says about the organisation being aware of the loss of income in good time is not correct. Unfortunately, it is as misleading as the behaviour of the SV’s representative in the City Council, who claimed that Maridalen’s friends had neither delivered an annual report nor accounts for the past few years. It is regrettable to hear such statements from SV. That being said, what is important in such areas of protection and in management plans is that we have a consistent practice and predictability. That's what we in the Central Party want with this proposal, to get predictability for NPISHs that take on the practical task. One cannot be given predictability if one is required to apply for project funding at any time. The alternative for a non-profit organisation to do so is either that the public is responsible for it or that a private company is responsible for it. Doesn't the Council of State see it the same way?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6967	Well, as I was inside, it's a completely fair discussion to have in Stortinget whether to rely on fixed promises of the state budget of that type of organization, or whether to essentially have application-based schemes. As of today, we have put on a system where we have application-based schemes, and some of the organisations have managed to obtain solid funding from other sources, as Mariadalen's friends have done. However, I would not recommend the Stortinget to vote in favour – that is, what the representative is asking for – of the Central Party’s proposal. It has to do with the fact that I understand that it is the intention that a government budget organisation should make a firm, permanent promise. Of course, it can be done in Stortinget if you want to, but in that case I think it is natural to also consider whether there is something that should apply to more organisations than this one. In this specific case, which is special – there is no doubt about it – I am still happy that we have managed to find a solution that works. It is important for the important carnage work in Maridalen. And I hope that it will be passed on in a good way this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6977	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6984	I am very pleased that the government has revised and found 400,000 kroner for Maridalen's Friends to take care of the cultural landscape and the landscape plain in the Maridalen landscape protected area. As was said in the reply box, I assume that the reason for this is not due to the organisation, although they have been in a difficult situation. After all, account must be taken of the landscape sprawl and the protection regulations in place in the Maridalen Landscape Protection Area, which have been preserved by Maridalens Friends for many years, i.e. back to the 1990s, and with the support of the Municipality of Oslo from 2004 on a proposal from the Left and myself in the Oslo City Council. And Oslo has kept this support until now. I think you have been in a very unfortunate situation when Oslo has chosen to cut that support, because this has worked, and it has worked well. The risk now, if the government had not provided in the revised budget, would be that precisely the conservation of the cultural landscape, the landscape that has been built up over a long time, would stop, and as a result would be regrowing instead of functioning care, which is there today. The Maridalen is important to Oslo, and it is important to the country. It's a neighbourhood for agriculture towards Oslo. It is also one of the most important protected cultural landscapes of medieval landscapes in Europe. The Maridalen has a meaning far beyond just the locality of Oslo. When you're there and you go up to the Margaret Church, which is a ruin, it's important to look around and see that the ruins are in a cathedral of a landscape. That's what Maridalen's Friends have been doing, and it's taking care of the landscape that is the reason why the state provides support, not the organisation itself. I think there's a lot to learn from this. In Maridalen, public intervention works. It should be Oslo; now it's the state. The private are important, i.e. the farmers in the Maridalen, but then there is also a need for a voluntary organisation that is involved in coordinating and carrying out a lot of the work done there. I think this is an organisation that we need to look at, and that we can learn from in other areas of protection as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e6997	I can sign on to everything that the representative of Elvestuen said, and I too would like to commend the efforts of the representative over many, many years. The last thing the representative said was that we are facing something that we can learn from, and that's exactly why we in the Central Party have promoted the proposal. So here's a landscape protection area with a management plan. The management plan came in 2002 after a long process. It started with a letter from Rolf Hansen in 1981. Through many phases this management plan was worked out, and in this case the management plan has been followed up in practice by the non-profit organisation Maridalens Vänner. Maridalens Vänner has a management that is quite unique in that there are so competent people in terms of the protection purpose. It's very rare. When a thing comes to such an organization with such a professional skill, and it creates a result for a very cheap money, it's something we have to look at, as the representative said. In any case, it is necessary to discuss what needs to be protected, why it needs to be protected, how it needs to be protected and where it needs to be protected, and all that needs to be followed up in a management plan. Here is a management plan to follow up its purpose. It's not just a plan that's a paper that's really made to stop another use of the area, and where in practice not so much happens with it. Here, something positive is happening. Here one goes into the reality that is, and takes care of the purpose. So it's happening through a non-profit, an organisation that doesn't go into a tender that lasts a short time. What's so special is that the party SV is not very happy with this way of doing it. They should really say hi to this instead of asking questions that show that you don't have any particular confidence in the way it's done. I am very pleased with what has been said by an overall committee in the vote, that 'the work of Maridalen's Friends can be continued'. So one wants it to continue, and then that's the job on the professional basis that's the case. There must be a permanent operating allocation. It's the responsibility of the state, not the responsibility of the Municipality of Oslo. And, as the Council of State also had in mind, if one goes into this scheme and it works well, one can see if there are other places around the country where one has similar organizations, with similar professionalism, that do a better job than the way these management plans are being implemented today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e7014	This case raises some fundamental questions. It's not about whether or not Maridalen's friends are doing a good job, but it's about whether or not we're dealing with organisations that care for our protection areas, whether or not they're equal. The representative Lundtegen said that I was wrong about the line change when I said that Maridalen's friends were aware of the economically difficult situation before the application deadline for many grant schemes expired on 15 January. He said I was wrong that they were aware of the economic situation then. Then I would like to invite the representative Lundtegen to read the evening post on December 16th last, where the head of the Mariadalens Friends is talking about the economically difficult situation that has arisen. It is almost one month before the deadline for application expires. I would like to quote from the letter that the Committee received from the Council of State today: most grant schemes have an application deadline of 15 January, and one had a deadline in November 2020. So it was possible to apply for grants from most grant schemes when you became aware of this situation. We cannot be discriminated against by organisations that carry out the important carnival work – because it is also SV for voluntary organisations to be involved in the carnival work and to receive support for it. But we have to make sure to treat them all the same. Because there are a number of organisations around the country doing an amazing job to take care of our amazing protection areas. In parentheses, we can notice that the Center Party has opposed the creation of several of them. But on the basis of the line change between the council and me, we are confirmed that for these other organizations, the money bag is not open. They don't get the same support that Maridalen's friends now get. I hope, then, that the Centre Party in its alternative revised budget will also present a sustainable pot to the other organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e7026	I take the word because I think it's an interesting discussion about management. I'm a little surprised by the representative Haltbrecken of the Socialist Left Party, who is so concerned about millimeter justice in such a debate, because here we open up a discussion about both authority, commitment and professional competence and whether there are other actors than those we have today who can manage purposes that the Stortinget has decided. I welcome that discussion. It should be said that the Maridalen is a relatively demarcated area. There might be better access to that kind of professionals as close to Oslo as it will be in other parts of the country. The potential for setting up NPISHs that can assume such responsibilities may not be as great overall. But we have also had a discussion about a proposal from the Central Party to try in national parks. It's a recurring debate on how to manage, and at least opening up discussion on some areas to gain experience on different ways to manage, I think we're all well off to better measure how they're doing and meet the goal we've set ourselves. So this is a discussion I welcome – that we can have an ambition to have something different practice in this. This government has opened up to get e.g. Norwegian Parker entered the state budget. They do not have a protection purpose, but they also manage a number of different types of natural areas in Norway – ranging from the Halden Canal to the Valdre Nature and Culture Park. So we're about to create a diversity, and I think we're going to take advantage of that opportunity to gain more systematic experience with both ideal and private or better state administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e7039	The previous speaker, Mr Kjeseth, is quite right, this is an interesting debate, and there are several reasons why that is so. One is what Kjeseth said, the other is that we have two red-green parties – one will not sit in government with the other, the centre party will not really sit in government with SV, but SV pleaded in an article in the evening post not so long ago that the centre party would sit in government with them – which looks so completely different on this as management issues, but also on how we can prioritize Maridalen. The representative Lars Haltbrecken may well stand here as much as he will and say that he thinks the Maridalen is nice and nice, and that he likes to ride in the Maridalen, but when he then hassles and comes with criticism from the government so that the government actually delivers an amount to Maridalen's Friends, so that they can continue their work, you have to ask, is there any action behind those words? In another debate earlier today, Haltbrecken said, ‘Action spokes louder than words.’ I think that should be said, because Norwegian is the language of the pulpit of the Norwegian National Assembly. But then he'll show it. So it would have been nice to have a confirmation from the Center Party: are they going to support the proposal in the RNB, about the $400,000, or are they not going to? I see that the Center Party has still drawn itself to posts, so they can answer whether they do or not. Then I have to say in the end: I never think I've experienced in my eight years here that the Socialist Left Party has been opposed to an extra appropriation in a state budget, in a revised budget. And I refuse to believe that the representative Haltbrecken's party has never proposed an additional allocation to an organisation, even outside a formal application. It simply cannot vote. That's the kind of comment you might be able to allow when you're not going to have re-election. But it can't vote, it's almost quite shocking to hear the great reluctance to exactly Maridalen's friends. The fact that the representative Haltbrecken and the Socialist Left Party should be the 400,000 kroner that this government wants to grant to the organisation through the RNB is absolutely incredible. I think it's historic. And then I have to say, I'm glad I got to be here and experience this historic event.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e7050	The President may admit that both Haltbrecken and Heggelund are doing well in Norwegian.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e7055	I can assure the representative Heggelund that the Senterpartiet will vote in favour of the 400,000 kroner allocation in the RNB. It should have been a higher amount. It should have been the amount that the Municipality of Oslo cut on the basis of incorrect information from the head of the SV in Oslo City Council. But we're going to support 400,000 kroner. What's interesting here is there's a rare alliance between the Center Party and the Left. It reminds me of the old Folkehöjskole-Leftstre, and that's why we in the Center Party are appealing that we might find ourselves together in this small area too, looking at the role of NPISHs in implementing a management plan in line with the government administrator's understanding of it all. The representative Haltbrecken said that one was aware of the loss at an early stage. No, one wasn't aware of that lapse before just before New Year's. And then the organisation had committed itself to, among other things. publishing two important books, which describe inter alia: the cultural landscape and trajectories of the valley. Therefore, one came into a difficult situation. What is the real reason why the centre party has taken this up, is because the representative, Kjenseth, was involved, namely that this case could be an example in a way to do it elsewhere. I'm very grateful for the attitude left has had, because here we have a Left in Government and a Center Party outside Government that has a common understanding at least in this area, and maybe in each of our flocks we can get an understanding that the way it is done today is not certain that the way it is done today is good for the purpose. I will end with it: the purpose of protection is important. The purpose of protection must be pursued by a management plan, and it requires active action to achieve it. Today, there is a protection area by protection area where there is no active action. Thus, the purpose of protection is not taken into account. We can't have it like that. Here, Maridalen is an affordable, good exception.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e7074	SV is the party in this room which, in its alternative budgets, has increased the appropriations of the voluntary organisations most in recent years. Under the current government, the appropriations for voluntary environmental organisations have been more or less on-site. What has been in the Central Party's alternative budget, I don't know, but I'm sure someone from the Central Party can tell us about it: Has the aid increased, or has the aid been reduced? The representative, Kjeseth, says that we're concerned with millimetres of justice. No, we won't. I myself come from a volunteer organisation and know how much it means to be able to get public support. This is why it is important that we have more equal treatment between voluntary organisations. So the representative, Kjeseth, says that Maridalen is a defined protection area. That’s right — like all other protected areas in Norway. Most of them are quite small, and they're all bounded. The representative, Kjeseth, also says that access to professionals is greater in Oslo than elsewhere in the country. I will protest against that strongly. Trondheim, where I come from, must in many ways be said to be the Nature Conservation Capital in Norway. Here we find the head office of the Environment Directorate, here we find the Norwegian Institute of Natural Research, here we find the Art Database. The availability of professionals is also high in other parts of the country. And the species mapping carried out by the Art Database, with a great deal of help from non-governmental organisations and people throughout the country, also shows that access to professionals – people who know something about nature, who know something about the care of our protected areas – is great across the country. But then it is also important that we ensure that these peoples and organisations are given the opportunity to receive support from the state. What we have confirmed today is that the money bag is not open in a similar way to these organisations, and that is a discrimination that is quite incredible.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-27.ana.ud269e7087	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 18th@item: inlistbox As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
