ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e57	For the sake of infection prevention, the President will propose that the public gallery be closed even during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. An application for welfare leave has been submitted by the Centre Party Group to the representative of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen on 20 and 21 January. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Olav Urbø, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e79	The representative of the Bears Moxnes will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e84	Red proposes extra housing support payments due to higher electricity prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e89	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting continues, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox Case No. 1 and 2 will be treated together. Case No. 1 and 2 are the third time legal proceedings and relate to legislative notes 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e111	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e127	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e142	The President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, there will be a reply to replies from members of the government, and those who have to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e149	The majority of the population are showing their way today in a difficult situation for businesses and too many people in our country. The message is this: Hand in hand with infection prevention measures that protect us and society from the covid-19 virus, we need measures to ensure that workers, businesses and vulnerable people get through the crisis as best they can. The measures shall be accurate and fair. They shall last for the duration of the crisis. No one should stand alone. We are approaching year two of this crisis. Compared to other countries, we're doing better. However, almost 200,000 are totally or partly out of work, business owners are fighting to keep the company liquid, and many — especially young adults — are at risk of being hooked up. In this situation, it is essential that strict measures for the protection of infection and economic measures go hand in hand. The Labour Party took the initiative in talks with the other opposition parties because we saw that the government did not deliver the powerful and fair policy country is now totally dependent on: a policy that puts ordinary people first and takes care of everyone who is acutely affected here and now, and equally important: a policy that is able to look up and look forward. This was the case last year, when the bulk of the population improved the response to the outbreak, and so it is now. Because what we're doing now, the political measures we decide for today and in the weeks that come, determines which Norway we get on the other side of the coronary crisis. That's why we've gathered about powerful approaches to avoid increased differences, a bankruptcy rate in business and a lost corona generation, young people who feel that the train is going without them, who don't have a job, not the necessary study credits, not the contacts that can help them further. We can't fix all of this with politics, but we can do a lot of things to make sure that we get going well as the population gets vaccinated and the wheels get going. On the other side of the crisis, we can get a Norway that has job opportunities for everyone, a Norway that seizes the opportunities for climate change and digitisation gives us, a Norway where young people are optimistic and have reason to be. It assumes that we're choosing right and fair now. The majority that has gathered today contributes to it. There is more to the Workers' Party would like to have had an impact on. We would make demands on the companies that receive crisis support, that they don't take dividends or cancel people. We would take better care of them on redundancy payments, and we would also give daily allowances to employees who do not currently meet the income requirement to get into this scheme. Nor do we get a majority to correct a gross injustice, namely to reinstate the right to a holiday allowance for a daily allowance. That's true of tens of thousands of people out there. We note that the Progress Party would not support these proposals and that there is a need for a new majority with a focus on our side of the political scale in order to achieve this. Nevertheless, the Labour Party is pleased that today we are given a majority of powerful measures to ensure the security of ordinary people through the crisis and opportunities on the other side, through, among other things. income protection, skills measures for the unemployed, action places and financial support for the students. We get a majority for better and more accurate arrangements for our businesses, so that they can take care of jobs through the crisis and contribute with innovation and new jobs on the other hand, so that we have speed and direction on the way out of the crisis, that it doesn't stop and we get lasting wounds with us on the other side. We need that policy. This crisis has made it clear how vulnerable the Norwegian economy is and how far we have left to create new jobs in new industries. The trade balance with the rest of the world has deteriorated markedly in recent years, and the government continues to pursue a passive industrial policy that more and more countries around us are now leaving. That's why we need a new policy and, after the fall elections, a new majority who are committed to business, a state that makes demands and demands, which allows us to both cut emissions and create new jobs, which uses the toolbox to develop new jobs and industries across the country, and which makes sure that it is now the turn of ordinary people. I will therefore deal with the proposals of which the Workers' Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e179	The representative Jonas Gahr Støre has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e184	Yesterday, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health briefed on the government's handling of the coronary apathy. We were told about the experience of ruling the country safely over a demanding period of time. The only thing that's been predictable with this pandemic is that it's been unpredictable. We have not known how long it will last, in what form it will turn out, how it will change along the way, and how long it would last before a vaccine might come. This summer we had far on the road control and were able to open the borders of many countries. The unemployment rate was falling again after it went to the ceiling in March/April. But then we got a new wave of infection this fall, and before Christmas we heard that the virus had mutated. A British and a South African version is spreading faster than the original virus variant. At the same time, we've seen a decrease in the infection pressure over the past week. Vaccination is in progress, but how fast we get to targets depends on how fast we get access to multiple vaccines. The situation has constantly changed rapidly and will still be able to do so, for the better or for the worse. Planning with a high degree of security in such a country has not been possible. In a changing situation, it has been important to ensure good support schemes that are as precise as possible from time to time. The right tool at the right time has been a mantra. A continuous dialogue with the business community and organisations and the Stortinget has been important for success. The actions and actions have been adjusted along the way in order to be as effective as possible. It's given results. Norway is one of the most successful countries in the world through the pandemic, both in the fight against infection and in the economy. It has created increased security for a demanding period of time for both workers and businesses. I understand Storting's desire for more predictability both for the lay-offs and for the business community. It's a wish that's shared by us. Living in uncertainty can be uncomfortable and scary. It can dry up the mood and self-confidence of the individual. I know people who have been awake at night and pondered whether their business will survive the pandemic. I know people who are hurt because they're outlawed. The uncertainty is steaming. There will be many questions. No one should be in doubt that someone is taking their situation seriously. Now, a majority, the Labour Party, SV, the Centre Party and the Advance Party propose that the leave arrangements should be extended to 1 October. There's nine more months, and it's a long time in a pandemic situation. If a long period is allowed, the way back to work may be heavier. It can lead to passivity. The same applies to enterprises which have extended the compensation possibilities beyond what is necessary. The desire for predictability must always be assessed against the changing landscape and current needs. We don't know what the situation will be like in the summer, and much less until the harvest. Consequently, we do not yet know which measures will work most effectively when we get that far. The wish for predictability in some areas today could lead to uncertainty in other areas tomorrow. We risk spending too much money, and we risk spending the money incorrectly. The representative Gahr Støre said that the measures should last for as long as the crisis persists. Yes, what if the situation in August is that the crisis is over, that one is back to normal? Are we going to continue with the scheme until 1 October, or is the majority open to make an assessment of this when there is actually another situation? It's very easy to say, yes, we're just expanding completely, we're guarding ourselves over the election. But if we see a completely different development, we have then adopted a policy of action that costs taxpayers a great deal, rather than introducing measures that are adapted to the situation we are in. I hope at least that the majority will consider an opportunity to adjust the measures if, as Gahr Støre says, the situation changes. I record that the opposition comes with measures without knowing how much the measures will cost. I heard at least from the majority spokeswoman, Kaski, in Political Quarter today that there was no overview of what this costs, and how it would turn out, but the government is asked to assess it, so it will certainly come back to that. So there's no complete assessment here. For us in the Right, it seems a bit funny that the Progress Party has now joined forces with the opposition on new measures, all the time the Progress Party has taken part in the design of all the action packages in the past. Just a few weeks ago, we sat together and came to an agreement. In 10 days' time, the Minister of Finance will present a new package of measures to the Stortinget. But the desire for quick action has obviously been the most important thing. I have one request for the majority. I haven't seen all the proposals yet, but this applies to all the proposals relating to the field of employment and social affairs – i.e. leave, day-to-day pay, etc. There was, of course, a proposal from the government yesterday, and I ask that those proposals, No. 1–11, at least, is sent to the Labour and Social Committee for treatment there, all the time already spent on the Storting Table. Then I'll come back later.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e214	The representative is welcome to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e219	Let me open up by saying that most of us recognize the effort that the government puts down every day to deal with this pandemic. This is not what today's proposal is about. Today's proposal is that it must be legal for the Storting to have views at the pace, progress, scale, duration, etc. in economic measures which in fact affect very many inhabitants of that country. The Progress Party has now contributed to the creation of a majority, primarily to the continuation, strengthening and extension of established arrangements. Is there any indication that we've been so far exaggerating since the pandemic hit us? No, rather the opposite. On every occasion, the size has strengthened and extended the proposals put forward by the government. Every time, we have heard a government that has expressed considerable optimism about the measures we have put forward, while, shortly after, they have had to come up with new, interventional measures which, of course, have economic consequences for those affected. It's about adapting maps and terrain. That court has of course also the Storting. As the representative Gahr Støre also said, there must be a link between the intervention and the financial compensation. There is still uncertainty, and we believe that predictability needs to be better, and rather – I can answer directly what Greece just asked for – to bring the measures down at an early stage if we are to get into the happy situation that everything is getting better compared to the forecasts that we have heard from the government. I think it has to be better. There is no need for further action if there is no need for action, but there is likely also to be wide variation around different industries, different parts of the country — as a result. For example, it will. be fully capable of seeing that large parts of the domestic economy can get on their feet faster than parts of the export-oriented industry and business, for one thing is how good we ourselves are, another thing is what challenges you get elsewhere. This could be done, for example, by: be one of the reasons why it may be reasonable to have a longer duration of the rules on the leave of companies engaged in maintaining competence and that it does not confuse or go to other parts of our business. So Greece said it was kind of strange that the Progress Party was now involved in this, all the time we were negotiating a budgetary union before Christmas. No, the ink was barely dry on that consensus before new, intrusive measures were introduced calling for new economic actions. That's why we're doing this. I want to make a little visit to the representative Gahr Støre, too, because yesterday he said it was the government and the Progress Party that had to take responsibility for people struggling. I think that's a very bad analysis. It is primarily the pandemic that has to take responsibility for people’s hard work and for business to wear out. We've all been on every single day since the intervention came in March, to improve the framework conditions so that as many of the country's businesses as possible can survive, and that as much as possible can be returned to work. Then we had a little round yesterday where I challenged the Prime Minister on a reopening strategy. I felt that the Prime Minister's main response to this was about two things. One was that we had to pull down the oil money usage. The second thing was that we were going to reopen society through green conversion. I think maybe it's a little simple analysis, because on the way to the green transition, which is going to take a long time, we're going to need a lot of short-term measures to make sure that as much as possible comes back to work, in educational courses, apprentices into businesses. There are many things that need to be solved in the short-term picture, and that are not necessarily related to the long-term challenges of green transition. I would ask the Prime Minister to elaborate on this in his intervention later in this debate. All in all, I believe that there has been agreement on many good proposals, but in addition, the Progress Party has proposals for which there is no majority. With that, I take up the proposals of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e236	The representative, Siv Jensen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e241	This is the debate after the presentations yesterday, and I'm going to start at a slightly different end than the economic one and take up again a question from yesterday: the vaccination plan. I think unclear signals about what's going to happen in the next six months in that area are very unfortunate. The Health Minister told me yesterday that he had not assured the adult population that he would be fully vaccinated for the summer, but he has contributed to creating an expectation. The Minister of Finance has further underlined today's expectations in the Political Quarter, where he says that some of the financial instruments are not necessary until 1 October because one has to expect that the vaccination has come a long way. Then the question is, how will the government organise the vaccine work from March to June, so that one gets vaccinated the entire adult population? It is critical for society to endure measures, it is critical of Norwegian business, and it is critical of those who are currently unemployed or on leave. But it's also critical to avoid a new wave of infection. Infection expert Jeremy Farrar, who advises the WHO, says this: We need to vaccinate a large proportion of the population as soon as possible before the summer. If we wait until the harvest, it won't be fast enough. Then we can see a new wave of infection for the winter. Now the EU has just set itself the target of 70 pst. the population shall have been vaccinated within the summer. The centre party will again demand a plan and a measure from the government of when the adult population will be fully vaccinated. It's critical. In terms of financial measures, the Centre Party is involved in most of the proposals. They can basically be divided into three: there are proposals that the Central Party has previously wanted to expand and continue, and that we proposed in our alternative budget in the autumn. It is the proposals to create safety for workers through the extension of the period of leave and to improve and increase the day-to-day arrangements, sick pay, measures for apprentices, etc. All of these are proposals we also had in our alternative budget, and we are pleased that today there is a majority on the Stortinge to adopt. Then, too, it is proposed in the agreement between the opposition parties to create new schemes that are also absolutely necessary, both to relieve and improve business and social life, to prepare and remedy the situation for business and social life, and also to prepare them in time when the pandemic is dipping off. This applies in particular to tourism, catering, accommodation and culture. I would also like to stress that some new measures are being proposed today. One of the measures proposed is a separate scheme for those currently excluded. There is a good part of business that falls outside the schemes today — they are not quite A4, to put it that way. I would like to point out in particular the situation of start-ups who invested in their company in 2019, starting at the beginning of 2020, and which today do not come under any of the schemes that are established. It's very unfortunate, and they should be given the opportunity to get help through the proposal for a separate scheme for those who fall outside. I think it's called the "ventilator" system – I don't know. Then I would also like to point out the need for someone now postponing the payment of public taxes and taxes for another period. I think that is also a very important measure for many of the smaller businesses that are going to meet this during the spring. The centre party also has its own proposal, which I am actually a little surprised that no one else supports. It is that one should fill the municipal food funds. I think it's very strange that we don't get any more support for it. For some of the most important feedback I get from Norwegian municipalities, all the small enterprises, which are too small to be able to use the schemes that are established, are managed through the local food funds – the municipalities provide their own small businesses and the smallest enterprises that have a critical situation. They have used very large parts of their municipal food funds for it, and there is a need for a replenishment in the food funds. I'm very surprised that we from the Center Party stand alone on that proposal. We are facing a demanding six months both in terms of vaccination and in terms of economic conditions for workers and businesses. It's going to be in front of you. We have long said that there is a need for a business crisis plan and not for clumsy action. We have received that today, but the plan and the measures for mass vaccination remain, and it must come. It is also critical for Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e266	The representative, Marit Arnstad, has taken up the suggestions she referred to?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e271	Yes, I've taken them up!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e277	What's the opposite of today, I guess, is that the government will wait, while the opposition will act now. There are good reasons not to wait, but to act now. It became very clear yesterday that it is necessary that the opposition parties promote the long range of crisis measures that are now being given a majority, because the Prime Minister had nothing new to do with the unemployed in his post here yesterday, had nothing new to do with those who fear their life's works, for example. in the food industry. It must be allowed to say that the contrast is quite great when you look at when this government has the power to act, and when it doesn't have it. The trade power was great when the lobbyists of some of the largest companies in the NHO would write the corona rules themselves. The trade power was high when it came to finding money for new reliefs to property taxes on equity assets, in the middle of the crisis. But the small business owners in the food industry and all the workers who have had to experience increasing unemployment rates and more lay-offs now in January have not experienced the same action. But now they see the power of action, and that's the opposition that stands for it. Government is waiting, opposition is acting. For SV, it is crucial for the crisis policy that needs to be pursued now, that we lay the groundwork for getting out of the economic downturn without undermining unemployment, and without a lasting increase in the social inequality, in the inequality of power and wealth, for which there is a great danger, because the crisis is so pervasive. We therefore need a crisis policy that is for the many, and not for the few on top. In the proposals now promoted by the majority, we provide more security and predictability for workers and businesses by providing for a proper and long-term extension of leave periods and increased rates of daily allowances, of compensation schemes for freelancers and self-employed workers – and a number of other options. We do this based on the recognition that too many people are the appeal the Prime Minister made yesterday to seize new job opportunities when they occur, nothing more than an illusion. Therefore, more security and a longer extension of these arrangements are needed. In addition, the opposition comes with new schemes, a better compensation scheme for the most vulnerable industries, for example: We see the students, the taxi drivers, the groups that have been appealing for relief or improvement in arrangements over the past few weeks, and we are ending benefits for companies that have rentals instead of their own employees. I'm not going to hide that SV would prefer to see a tougher package for social justice. We also believe it is very important to put in place a crisis package for those who have the least, extensions for those who have redundancy payments, for example, but do not get the help they should get from Nav, an increase in housing support also for 2021, as we received in 2020. We believe that we need to make demands on the companies, for example. Those who now, in the middle of the crisis, cancel out hotel workers and canteen workers, we believe that demands must be made on the big house owners, because it is natural to make demands on those at the top of Norwegian society when it is given state support, just as it is done to people who have little. But it's just to see that kind of social justice demands we have to get a new majority in the Storting to get through. Finally, I just want to mention a proposal that SV in addition is promoting today. The news yesterday that Norway will give away vaccines we do not use ourselves, to poor countries, is a good news, and I will give the government credit for it. But that won't solve the basic problem we're now seeing in poor countries. It will not be possible to obtain a rapid enough vaccination if poor countries are given the opportunity to produce vaccines themselves. Then we'll have a disastrous delay. It will also hit us, because then we will not get the world economy going again. It is therefore necessary to provide for temporary relaxations in patent rules so that poor countries can produce their own vaccines. It is sad that it is only the SV and the Center Party that are proposing it today. I'll encourage other parties to think about. Then I would like to address the suggestions SV is on its own.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e294	The representative Audun Lighthouse has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e299	In the immediate comment round we had in Stortingen yesterday just after the briefings of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health, the articles mainly focused on how we handle the disease and the health aspect of the pandemic. Fortunately, there is little doubt that Norway as a nation, as a whole, has so far handled the coronary crisis very well. Most importantly, we are one of the countries with fewer infections, with a health care system that has so far had the capacity to receive both those who have been seriously ill, and to provide them with good care and care. Economically, there has also been better than fear. But it's, as the Prime Minister stressed, a big butt. When we now hope to approach the upstream side where the first vaccines have already received dose number. two, the situation may still come out of control. For this reason, there is still a great deal of need for what can be perceived as, and as we know, very demanding restrictions – not least too hard-tested enterprises, especially in service industries. This also alerts the Prime Minister in the briefing to a number of measures aimed at relieving industries and industries that are and will be in a very difficult situation as long as strict restrictions are needed. Some of the measures have already been submitted to the Government for treatment by the Stortinge. to extend the permit arrangement, or they will come to Storting for the next week. The Prime Minister and the Government have also, since the coronary crisis came too fully, been quite clear that as long as the crisis makes it necessary to take economic crisis measures aimed at business and other hard-hit industries, such as industry. the cultural and event sectors shall be set up by the State. It's just supposed to be missing. In this way, I and Left ask us that four opposition parties consider it necessary to use the debate on two briefings to make extensive decisions on a package of more than 20 financial measures. Not to be misunderstood: We are not asking or disagreeing with so many of the basic suggestions. Most of them have either come with or notify that one comes with in a few days, or there is an extension of existing schemes. As you can see, there is every reason to applaud again that we are still standing at the Storting even when it is due to handle the coronary crisis financially. However, in view of the scale of these measures, and the lack of a normal professional distribution and evaluation — no impact, the proposals have, after all, a total financial outlay of billions of dollars — it is very difficult to stand behind them. And it's really a shame, considering that such a thorough crisis as the Coronapandemy is both fastening and making the best of what we do politically, making us together, with the goal of always having the right measures to secure businesses and jobs, and not least ensuring that most of the businesses are able to make the transition to a normal situation, which, hopefully, is right around the corner. Without me bothering the Storting with details, the first review shows different departments have had time, that several proposals are either very difficult, not to say impossible, to carry out within the time one has to consult, or they are very difficult to set up so that they are fair to all, or they are required to control. As I know the parties behind the package of measures, I am convinced that we agree that the Storting should not adopt proposals which, in the next round, disappoint those who are happy today, because they cannot be started quickly enough. In this way, the Storting makes things worse. I also don't think any party here is interested in creating schemes that make it easy for less serious actors to trick into the community's resources and resources. In this way, I would appeal to the proposal parties that the proposals should have an ordinary committee procedure, and that both we should have time to quality them and the government and the departments should have time to do so, and that we should be able to stand our whole heart behind them. It's not just those who are in crisis, I believe politics is in it too.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e318	Predictability is the key to success in crisis management. Safe management of the pandemic requires predictability, while evaluating the measures against the relevant infectiveness situation. The pandemic is constantly developing away. The situation changes – sometimes the more positive, sometimes negative. Now the vaccination is in progress, and hopefully we'll see the beginning of the end. We need to keep considering the measures against the current situation, and it is changing all the time. We all hope that this pandemic will end soon. Patience is put to the test, and there are many who sacrifice a lot. The human sides of this pandemic are completely obvious and visible. There are many who have to bear a large cost, and I am thinking in particular of everyone who is at risk of losing his job and his income base. I also think of everyone who experiences loneliness and different forms of mental stress as a result of all the restrictions. The size has shown the ability and willingness to meet the challenges we are facing. The government is driving the country safely through the crisis. The opposition has today put forward a number of proposals. We record that the Progress Party now chooses to lean on the left side of Norwegian politics, a few weeks after the party formed the budget majority with the government parties. This way of dealing with a crisis does not provide the necessary security and predictability that we now need. I understand that the proposals that the opposition is promoting today may seem reckless at first sight. There are several of the proposals that have many good aspects to them. Several of the proposals are already being addressed by the government, but the measures have to be seen in the context of the relevant infection situation as it changes — it has to be dynamic and predictable. When the opposition chooses to lock measures far ahead of time, the Christian People's Party cannot be involved in this. When the opposition makes proposals that have not been evaluated or examined, it does not provide the security and predictability we need in the current situation. None of us can say with certainty what the situation looks like in a few months, to the summer or to the next harvest. At that time, we must have the opportunity to adapt the measures to the current situation. We cannot now adopt arrangements over the table, which have not been investigated, carefully assessed or which we can be sure will be appropriate measures some months in advance. Then we do business, culture, children and young people, the working life of the rest of the Norwegian people a great service to bear. If the infection goes down, it will, for example: be low-targeted with long permitting schemes. In such a situation, we would rather have to have active measures to get the activity up and down. No one should be in doubt that we are going to spend the money we need, and we are going to do what we need to do to make the country safe through the crisis. The Christian People's Party has been clear about this all along: life and health first. We need to protect vulnerable groups, children and young people, make sure that people have a job to do when the crisis is over, and have measures for business. The government has been and is willing to spend the money that is needed, but we have to do it right, adapted to the situation. However, we cannot have a competition to spend as much money as possible or to have as many measures as possible, without these being carefully assessed. Fortunately, in the past, government and population have come up with good solutions during this crisis. I am sure that this time we too will be able to do this. Now we know that the government will bring in a new crisis package over the next week. Much of what is included in the request decisions will be thematic. Much of that opposition is taking up, it's already working on, and the Storting will get it processed. But let's get this evaluated in an overall context. Everyone's going to make a profit. As I said, the government comes with a new emergency package on 29 January. I look forward to constructive negotiations with the opposition on measures adapted to the situation we are facing. Our responsibility is to help individuals, families, businesses and anyone who is now in a difficult situation. We need to do that in a safe and predictable way, with measures adapted to the situation we are facing. I look forward to good talks with the opposition about good, important and necessary measures for our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e339	When we dealt with the first crisis package in Stortinget, Red was involved in raising the daily allowance level and also got an impact on a system that ensures the income of the apprentices. We have also insisted that the period of leave, the daily allowance period and the guarantee of income for freelancers and self-employed persons should be extended. These schemes are now being extended, most of them until 1 October, to ensure the safety of many unemployed through the summer. There are several important points in what the majority of population is now likely to adopt, but there are also some major gaps. Still, the hundreds of thousands who have been available in 2020 do not get holiday money when summer comes, something Red has suggested. They will continue to do more than 50 pst. during periods, lose the right to a day's allowance and must refuse to pay the injured guards. There are also shortcomings in the measures to stop imports at a time when society is shut down, close to 200,000 are unemployed and the government is considering proposals for a port ban. The government has, as we all know, given several times for pressure from employers. The rules are not yet good enough either, because the problems are not solved by the proposals that were made today early. The NRK last week told about employers who are pushing for breaches of the quarantine rules. We are told from work immigrants that they must remain at work even if they should be in quarantine, even if they have been in close contact with someone who is infected, and even if they themselves have symptoms. According to Fair Play Byg, employers tell employees that there is no money to get when they are in quarantine. Therefore, they will have people swinging as soon as they get to the country, and as long as the risk of being taken is so small, part of the unprofessional employers take the chance. This is unsustainable, and it must be stopped. On the basis of this, a proposal today to remove the exemption from the requirement to carry out the quarantine period at hotels also when the employer makes his stay. Here we go further than the so-called four-band. We fear that some vulnerable workers will be even more commended to the boss, because when the boss pays for wrecks or other dumplings and you cannot even make money at work, the risk of unprofessional employers being able to push forward breaches of the rules increases. I hope that the majority of people can support Rødt's proposal number 1 to remove this exception from the requirement to carry out the quarantine period at the hotel. We also want concrete guarantees that employers will be fined if they are aware that employees have been living in a red country, and yet people have jobs. Here must the rice behind the rear-view mirror. Then we need to take account of local health services and to prevent import infection in front of the training needs of other NATO countries. Over the last few weeks, more than 60 foreign soldiers have been found infected on arrival in North Norway. The municipal doctor in Berlevåg says, "It is an uncertain time we are in, and there is no reason for us to take that risk." The municipal doctor in Narvik says that they have a rather heavy burden on health from before, and that the number of infected people is a concern. The head of defense is also concerned. He can't guarantee that this won't lead to more infection in our society, and will evaluate the exercise on February 1. That's not gonna last, we mean. I hope we can bring the bulk of the population to grips with this in order to avoid increased import infection and support proposal number 3 from Red. The treatment of these measures shows that we have a political problem, which means that the government is given the heavy premises for the crisis packages, while the Progress Party decides where the limit goes. We want to make sure that all the unemployed get security through the summer, but until the fall we probably have, we get hope, a new growth rate with a strong Red, so that we can use more of the forces to fight unemployment, not the unemployed, and ensure that the crisis packages go to jobs and those who are hit, not to a fundraiser party for wealthy business owners, or that the state's crisis money ends up in the pocket of the property barons. With that, I'll take up Red's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e356	Then the representative Björn Moxnes has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e361	I want to start by saying that I have listened to all the submissions now and can well note that the part of the statement that has concerned the management of the infection, the infection protection situation and other things seems not to have led to comments from Stortinget regarding the government's treatment. That's good. It also gives us confidence that the management we now have, with the choice of infectious disease prevention measures, has the support of Stortinget, as there have been no comments, with the exception of imports. I guess the Minister of Health will answer the challenge of vaccination questions, since that statement was made by him, but I want to say a few words about the import-infection issue. Today, as far as I have understood – I have so far been reading through it – proposals have been made for import infection, which is to open an open door. All of the proposals that have been put forward are – as the government reads – well covered in what is today's government strategy, and the way we deal with it. So there is nothing new in the proposals on imports from the majority of Stortinget. It shows that we have support for the treatment and strategy we have in order to secure ourselves against import infection as well. But in the case of import infection, it is important to underline some things. On 13 January, the rapporteur in Bodø, Ida Pinnerød, said very clearly that it was important that we did not leave a basis for hot against those who come and work here, or those who live in Norway but come from other countries, and that it was unacceptable. I think we should be aware that some of the debate around this contributes to a much more serious and difficult debate that affects people living in Norway and their children. She said, "We can't have it like this, it's not okay. The virus is ruthless and limitless and affects everyone. She also stressed that the infection among migrant workers has been transparent and that there is no reason to believe that the infection has been included in society. The same is true of the rapporteur of the Senterpartie in Westnes. He is sure that the infectious prevention programme developed by the Vard Langsten yard in cooperation with the municipality works. Through this arrangement, an experienced and isolated visitor who has tested positive at an early stage has not been infected in the community as a result of workers coming from abroad to Vard Langsten. I stress this because we want to find infection among those who come, because they come from areas of high infection, but as long as they're in quarantine and we get the quarantine to work, we'll make sure that infection doesn't spread to others. Then it's important to have a balance in the message that comes out. Let me say a little bit to the posts that were about the economic situation: I have to admit that I don't always know myself completely in the story that is told about what has happened. We introduced the most interventional measures on 12 March. The first proposition came immediately, on March 13th, but, as we said on March 13th, it reflected the situation before March 12th and the measures that were, the effects that we had. Then we introduced a reduced payroll obligation in the case of leave, we increased the discretionary funds of the municipalities, we deferred the tax payment and gave the opportunity for the repayment of the company's deficit to the deduction of profits in 2018 and 2019, and we cancelled the temporary flight passenger fee and all air charges. We have followed this further up with phase two and phase three measures. In parallel, of course, we have had a process in Stortinget, and I appreciate both good recordings and good discussions, and that all parties have come to the table with proposals that have been important. But there have been parallel processes, which have been completely natural. Only through the general compensation scheme, the guarantee scheme for loans to small and medium-sized enterprises, the restoration of the State bond fund and the guarantee facilities for liquidity to the airlines, with which the government has come, have it been combined approximately. 160 B.C.E. kr. I believe that attempts are being made to create an artificial distinction between what the government has done and what the Storting has done. I think we've done most of this together. With regard to the new measures proposed here today, it is difficult to deal with so many measures in a short time. However, these are actually three types of action: there are measures that the government believes it is too early to decide on, for example: new dates for schemes to be dealt with in the Storting. There is a political difference in view of when we think it is necessary. There are measures that I also pointed out in the statement that we come back to in a proposition on 29 January, among other things. related to the innovation grant, student actions, actions for vulnerable children and young people, to which we come back, enhanced migration regime and aviation and other measures. The third is measures that we do not know exactly how to implement technically. We also don't know how we can do it in time, because some changes will require ESA approval. So I hope you have respect in the Storting that it may take longer to get in place, but I hope that it will not take so long that it will postpone some of the arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e384	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e389	We agree on the line against infection – mainly. But I don't think the Prime Minister should take this as a blank mandate that everything you've done has been right. At the time of import, seriously speaking, we were in deficit since March 2020, when the Italian planes arrived, when exemptions from quarantine were granted in the summer, when they opened for exit to the North and had poor control on the way in, and when they refused to have testing at the border, until it was introduced. Citing the rapporteur in Bodø is very wise, because it is one of the wisest local politicians out there, but I think she is being dragged a little too far by the Prime Minister. It is absolutely right that we should not stigmatize foreigners; we need them to work. However, municipalities have to get the resources to do the job when they have to check at the border, when they have to take testing and make it mandatory, as the government has come with. So my question to the Prime Minister is: Will she ensure that the municipalities have the resources to do that job, and is she sure that they have it today after the mandatory testing decision is made?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e396	Yes, we have given the municipalities a guarantee that they will get the money they need for this test.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e401	Yes, it is then the test on which the government is to be tested in small and large municipalities at different border stations. That is a clear answer – we should follow up and test. I want to say to the arguments that the government came up with against the proposals that were made yesterday, which were either to open doors – and if those doors were open, that's not how it has been experienced out there, those in the business world, feels that there is unforeseeability around the schemes that come – or, the second argument, that extending the permit arrangements leads to passivity, that I am over it. The Prime Minister often says that she trusts the companies, that they don't make profits or do other things that conflict with the norms we have in society. But does she not trust that they will also engage in activity whenever possible? Doesn't she trust that those who are on leave will take a job when there's a job? It is a sort of underlying view that if there are long-term legislation on permitting, people are sitting and waiting for it. Where does the Prime Minister have the impressions? Who did she talk to that tells you that's how the perms think?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e409	In fact, there is a relatively large amount of professional reports related to the functioning of permitting schemes in previous crises. One of the criticisms we received in our Holden Committee was that the rules of leave connected with the compensation scheme contributed to inaction. It was the economic advice we received from the economists we asked how to twist and make changes to the arrangements – so that you can delay it. So I think it's important to remember that in February last year, before the pandemic hit us, the main picture in Norway was lack of labour and in many places lack of skilled labour. If during the summer we get to a time when it's actually more normalized, it'll still be that if you're licensed, it's a very good guarantee for that company. But the other enterprise somewhere else in the country, for example. in Northern Norway, which is the part of the country that has had the most shortage of skilled labour, may not have available labour because it is kept elsewhere. Then it is our responsibility to see the total level of Norwegian society and not just in the perspective of the individual enterprise.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e416	We've never had this kind of crisis before, where the government shuts down businesses that are going well and that will go on. I met Roy, who runs a bar with TV and quiz clubs in Eidsvoll Municipality. He is now the only employee – all the others are on leave. It won't go one day without him arranging quiz evenings, serving steaks, showing TV matches, recruiting new people – when possible. Robin in Bergen is a chef and is not called back even when he is applying for a job in a grocery store. He's looking for jobs all the time, and he's on leave. The Prime Minister encourages those who have been given the opportunity to look for a job and take a job if possible. I don't think they think about anything else, and if that's possible, they take that job. There's some kind of distrust of people's motives in this that I'm responding to, and that doesn't match what you hear out there. These are not companies that have gone badly, and that can let things go further with permitting because it is convenient. There are companies that are asked to shut down by a majority and a government. Therefore, these arrangements are necessary, and the Prime Minister’s reply confirms that it was right for the opposition to gather on those proposals. I look forward to the Prime Minister also implementing them as the majority of the population decides.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e425	As regards the proposals concerning the extension of the laying-off arrangements, the decision that the Storting must take in the form of a change in the proposal which is there. Therefore, our parliamentary leader has recommended that they be sent to the ASD – no, to the Labour and Social Committee – because there is the legislative proposal, where the date fixing should be proposed. It's a little strange that the Storting should ask the government to come back with a new proposal for the Storting, when the proposal is actually there. As an old parliamentarian, I would like to recommend that the Storting should take the power they actually have, and adopt things rather than ask the government to come back with matters. We have said that we should follow up these proposals as a majority on the Stortinget adopts. We come back with a proposition on 29 January, which will contain some of those proposals, not all of them, but I'm going to make sure that when things are very little figured out, and that's a little unclear to us what you're really referring to, we have to have a process where we agree on what this means, and it has to be within what is authorised state aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e432	I assume it was a premise that we're sending these proposals to the ASD.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e437	To the Labour and Social Committee – that's what I'm fixing again.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e442	That's right, but it's an expression that when the Storting has done this, it's not taken out of a vacuum. It's based on the experience you have from March last year, on what doesn't work, and a little different attitudes to what you hear out there in business. Among these 24 proposals, there are also quite clear proposals to promote activity — try out schemes that do not cancel, do not permit, but try out schemes with, among other things. wages and salaries subsidies, which keep the activity up. What we must recognise in this crisis is that it is unique. We've never had it before. It is politically implemented. I stress again: these measures help Norway to get moving faster. And I can assure Trond Helleland that if these measures prove useless and do not work along the way, you have the opportunity to adjust them. That is what Siv Jensen said, and I believe that all the proposers fully agree. We have an opportunity in review, and we have opportunities on an ongoing basis. But this gives predictability over the summer, and that's about when we have the vaccine supply. I look forward to these proposals making the situation a little less difficult for those who are most vulnerable.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e453	This crisis is not a political one. It's a pandemic that's hit globally. And this country is actually among the countries that get the best through it. The main guarantee that Roy and Robin can get back to work, that they can see their activity, is that we're dealing with the infection, that we're not making sure there's no new, big outbreaks of infection, that we're making sure they're here. We just have to remember that as the bottom plan in the treatment of this. We implement the measures we take to ensure that people don't get sicker, so that we don't get more people who die, to make sure that we secure the jobs. Any of those pieces are essentially. So to make this a political question and say that the crisis is going on: no, this wouldn't be the situation if we hadn't had the pandemic we have right now. My job is, and there I think we all agree in this room, that we all work as hard as possible to ensure that as many jobs as possible survive, survive, and that people can come back to a safe job in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e462	Here I think the Prime Minister understood perfectly well what I said. It's a pandemic. At the outset, we said that we are united on strict measures for the protection of infectious diseases. We're protecting Norway. The fact that Norway is doing better than other countries, we should be satisfied with it, but not rest on those laurels. I believe Norway has the prerequisite to expect us to do it. My point is that when jobs out there, workers and businesses, now have to be shut down, it is because we have politically decided that it should be like this. It's an infectious agent. The point is that these should go hand in hand – the measures of the crisis – they should last for as long as the crisis lasts, and they should be fair and accurate. There we have been able to gather on good proposals, where the majority in this Chamber changed on the proposals last year, and where the majority in this Chamber has once again set the direction for them to become fairer, more accurate, and that no one should stand alone through this crisis. We have a political responsibility for that, and we can actually do that politically.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e471	I am pleased that signals have now come from both the Progress Party and the Workers' Party that one is willing to reconsider if it turns out that the situation is different, and that then one can shorten these measures. It gives us a better basis, because we need to adapt the measures to the situation we have. As I said, there are several of the measures promoted by the majority, which were already on the list of actions we are working on until 29 January and to the proposition. I look forward to a good discussion of the measures mentioned here, the measures the government has, and other measures when we return to the Storting. I only take one reservation, and that is that there are some measures that we see that can lead to some challenges in implementation technically so as not to delay and destroy our compensation schemes as they are made and that can actually appear as state aid and therefore need an ESA approval. That means we have to have transparency that when you do work this way, without a professional quality assurance basis, you're also open that some of these things have to be reviewed based on whether they're feasible.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e480	It is not quite right that there is a broad dissension about all that the government has done. In my speech yesterday, I pointed to the vaccine strategy, to the import infectious challenges, and not least to the national prohibition. Let me pursue it a little further, because in his speech yesterday the Prime Minister said that it was among the staff at the serving points that the infection was overrepresented. Then I wonder if there's a difference between this staff going to the table and serving a plate of meatcakes, and whether they also bring a beer in the same sling? Because that's what's part of the challenge of the national ban, that the infection is so diverse across the country. This also represents a social dimension. Many of these local food establishments around the country have low margins and are hit unnecessarily by a national ban, which may not be entirely in line with the infection that we see varies across the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e485	The numbers we have are aggregated numbers. Unfortunately, we do not have detailed breakdown. We should like to have a functioning, good app that had given us all of these systems. It was privacy considerations before the summer. Then we could have answered a lot more questions about where the infection was, and had less darkness on this, but as long as we don't have that kind of information background, it's harder to do it. But there is no doubt that when alcohol is served, it changes. I pointed out yesterday to the report that the Danes have been given on the risks and measures to be taken in the future, which clearly shows that bars and pubs are places of high risk, and that precisely serving alcohol helps to make it much more difficult to control. We are implementing these measures, hopefully in the short term, as total national measures, but we are implementing them because we are in a special situation with mutant viruses that can enter, with underlying infections that can spread rapidly. We have good examples from both home and abroad of how fast infection spreads, from being zero or small to being on top.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e493	It was the Prime Minister who yesterday used the figures related to the overrepresentation of infection by employees in the food industry, so I strictly referred to the Prime Minister's own words. But of course there's a difference between pubs and bars and restaurants and cafes, and that's really the distinction I'm asking the Prime Minister to make. So we can invite guests home, make dinner, serve alcohol and have a good time there, but we can't do it under strict infection measures out in a restaurant. I mean, if this staff represents infection, that's the problem, not if they bring a beer with them when they put the meatcakes on the table in front of you. That's what I'm asking the government to assess. Will there be any change in the national measures for the protection of infection, which gives a slightly greater hope for some of the places in the rural areas with very low margins and low numbers of visits?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e498	Now we don't know if it's the bartenders that are infecting, or the waitress that are infecting, but we know that bartenders and waitress are on top of infection. It's probably a client who's infected, and then they carry it on – just so we have clarity about it. We have said that next week we will review this, but often we talk about the slogan 'too little, too late'. I will be allowed to launch the slogan I have tried repeatedly: ‘Too fast, too much’. It's about what reopening strategy we're going to have, how we can build up. If we do things too fast and too much at once, the danger of getting infected is even greater. When we opened yesterday so that children and young people would be able to do their sports activities again, when we opened up so that they could go to school again, and when we opened up so that we could meet at home, we took one step. Every new step we take, we increase the infection pressure in society, and then we have to set limits. For us, it has been a higher priority than opening the door to go to a restaurant.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e505	No one disagrees with the need for border controls. What I'm asking is the possibility of local variation. That's what this discussion is about, but enough about it. I challenged the Prime Minister in my post again about this reopening strategy, which I believe makes sense that we are now beginning to discuss. So far there are two main arguments that have been put forward. One has been that we have to bring down the oil money industry, and the other has been green conversion. Now I want to give the Prime Minister an opportunity to elaborate a little bit more on this, because the short-term picture of a reopening of society is about a lot more than green conversion and taking down oil money. It's about getting people back to work, it's about solving many of the temporary challenges that have arisen for many, it's about getting up the treatment capacity at the country's hospital, it's about doing something for all those who are struggling with mental challenges after a year of shut-down. Will the Prime Minister elaborate on this further, perhaps helping to create some hope in a society that thirsts for reopening?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e512	My comment yesterday was not that it was just the green solutions, it was creating more and including more, like the big strategy for it. Many of the measures we presented in the Phase 3 proposal – we divided this into three phases: ensuring the measures of infection protection, compensation schemes around it, keeping the industry going and then starting slowly with activity – focused on building the breadth of the measures. Many of those measures are precisely about providing knowledge and competence. The great Education promise of 2020, as we have called it, which provides more places of study, more continuing education, more vocational training, ensuring that more people can complete higher education for those who are on leave is important. And then based on that, we've also created a new regulation that will come into force soon, which is that even after this situation, you can do it as perm. Then we've created a government budget that's a lot about that reopening, and that also contains a lot of money. Much has been proposed by the government, even more is compromise with the Progress Party, for example. about hospitals to bring the health cows down again, and we have great ambitions to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e517	It's not just this. I think we're all concerned that the next six months will be a pretty crucial six months, both in terms of the economy and business, and also in terms of vaccination and possible reopening. So it's just that there's a majority in the Great Britain that is then more ambitious than the government and wants to be more in the forefront than the government of the economy, and I hope that the government will follow up. But I still want to go back to vaccination, because the Prime Minister was in on it yesterday. That's where hope lies, and that's where we're asking what's going to happen in the next six months, and what the Center Party is asking for today is a goal and a plan for full vaccination. I understand that there are many reservations taken, and that something may go wrong, but others set some goals for when they're going to have their entire adult population vaccinated. The EU has just set itself a target of 70 pst. during the summer. What is the government's goal?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e526	Just the same, and that's what both I and the Health Minister said yesterday that our hope is – I can say our goal is – that we've completed those who want, that is 70 pst. by the adult population, by June. It assumes all of the assumptions we've said about not "hiccups" in the system on the road. We're planning on getting to this, but there are some danger points. One is that something can happen on the road in connection with production. The second is the question of whether the virus changes so that one actually has to renew what types of vaccines you have, and it might be the black hole, to put it like that, the big cross of thought. Although many of the vaccine providers now say that they can change their vaccine quite quickly, it will mean a completely different progression. We hope, and it seems that they are quite convinced that the three major mutations that are now being discussed worldwide are being taken by the same vaccines, but we have to have them with us as the big challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e533	A little bit of what's happening in the hall here today is the result of the government instead of sitting down and discussing with the whole Biggest, choosing to come back and adopt what the biggest parties have proposed, among other things. in the case of the permitting mechanism, although I believe that the Prime Minister still believes that this is not right. But I hope we're not going to get into such a kind of debate about vaccination, because that won't do any of us any good. But then the Norwegian community and also the Storting deserve more transparency about which plan to implement in order to quickly and quickly have the entire adult population vaccinated. From March to June there is a huge amount of work to be done. Many municipalities are clear, many municipalities are very ambitious in their goals, but I simply miss the fact that the government is more consensual on which type of plan to implement in order to get it done quickly, all reservations taken into account. That's the plan I think Stortinget is now looking for, and as the Center Party thinks is very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e538	This can also be commented even more by the Minister of Health, of course. It is true that on December 18th, all the municipalities of the country – they had the deadline, and some were perhaps a little delayed – delivered their vaccination plan in their municipality according to the priority rules established. So the plans are fully present. That's why municipalities are now looking around for gymnasiums, and we're not going to be allowed to train because you're going to use them, because you expect a mass vaccination when we get out in maybe March/April, by very large groups. The biggest change in time is: how many vaccines are approved, and how quickly does this AstraZeneca vaccine, which is now in an authorisation phase but is not yet approved, come to be able to aggregate and increase so that one can vaccinate even faster? That's the kind of thing that makes one not to say in detail all the parts of this, but these plans are there. Every municipality has planned for this. This is also rolled out as a system, and now we're waiting to get what is the input, that is, the vaccine, in order to implement it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e543	There are both hotel workers and canteen workers who are now experiencing redundancies, despite the fact that their employers receive large sums of emergency aid from the state. There is a fear, which has been evident not least by many trustees in the trade union movement, that in some companies in the future one may experience that it is now being reduced in full and permanent posts and perhaps re-employed later after the crisis in the form of more unemployable work. SV believes that zero redundancies should be required in relation to the crisis aid, as long as we have a good permitting scheme as an alternative. I know the Prime Minister disagrees with that, so I'm not going to ask her about it, but I just want to ask if she will at least encourage companies that get crisis support not to quit people. What kind of signals the Prime Minister gives may also have something to say about the behaviour of employers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e550	I would encourage all companies, whether or not they get crisis support, to keep the workforce as long as they can, to try to keep them active, but also to help them get back to their job. I fully agree that it would be unfortunate if we were to have a change from permanent jobs to more temporary ones. Fortunately, we have seen developments in recent years towards more permanent jobs and less temporary jobs for very many occupational groups and more full-time jobs, which have been a positive development that we still want. I want to explain why I believe it would be wrong to make such a claim in a system. We provide support for fixed expenditure. There will be companies that keep going, but who know that when they're going to start up again, they have to start up again at a much lower pace than they had before. This means that they have employees who they already know will not be able to work in the period afterwards. It is then right that they give a clear signal to the employees that they do not necessarily come back to this job. If not, they will keep the labour force in their business, while other businesses may need them. It'll be especially important when we have a permitting rule that the bulk of the population wants to expand for so long.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e557	There we disagree. We believe that the predictability of permitting makes it reasonable to make that kind of claim. But let me ask another question to the Prime Minister. She said in her post that the Storting had not made any comments, I think the quote is, related to the measures to prevent infection. But the Storting isn't invited to it. SV has not taken a decision on each infection protection measure, because the government has chosen to take active responsibility for it alone, despite the fact that we, among other things, have. has encouraged the government to come to Stortinget with several of the most intrusive measures. When we proposed it in the autumn, the government's answer was that it would mean changing the rules along the way, and the government couldn't do that. But now it emerges that the government has nevertheless used the autumn and winter for a large legislative work related to the port ban, where a model for anchoring in the Stortinget has also been developed. That's good, because it showed that it was possible. That is my challenge to the Prime Minister: Can we not adopt that model for all the most intrusive measures and thus ensure more trust and transparency?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e565	Firstly, I would like to say that when I commented that it was not like this, it was because I was asked to explain to the Stortinge about the situation related to the infection itself and our actions. I assume that when we explain to the Storting, it is. When the Storting has no references to a statement, it must be assumed that this means either accepting, of course, that it is the privilege of the government, and that you just want to be informed, or that you think that this is right. Then I can take into account that you still mean that it's the government's privilege. At least we're prepared to cooperate well on it. I have also heard from the head of the Workers' Party that he agrees mainly with those measures and that strategy. It's also good and clarifying for the government to know. With regard to the issue of our legal work, there is an area that is not covered by the current IPD at all. We think it is right for the sake of readiness that we have investigated this, so that we have this legislation if we need it. We have an assessment of whether it will be promoted in advance in particular in Stortinget, or whether there will be a concrete situation that will have to be promoted in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e572	When there is more activity in the downstream sectors, the persons on leave must be able to work what they can, and not be replaced by different forms of unemployment. Red therefore proposes to increase the limit on how much you can work in periods, without losing the right to a day's pay, because we see and hear that today, the permit has to say no to guards, because they will lose their daily allowance if they cross the limit, which is 50 pst. The government has stated several times that they must not be passive, they must apply for jobs, and they must work what they can. At the same time, there are strong limitations on how much it is possible to work on a permanent basis, i.e. a maximum of 50 pst. Sees the Prime Minister that it's a little illogical, and the government will do something about this limit, which is now 50 pst.? Can it, for example, raised, as proposed by Red?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e579	No, no, no. I think that would be unwise. It would be State aid to companies over time that would be unreasonable. If you can work more than 50 pst., I do not think it is reasonable for other employees to pay the costs that the company might then avoid paying. I believe that this would be a wrong strategy. There must be a greater fall in work and work for enterprises to do so. Then I am busy saying that I have not just said that the person on leave must apply for jobs, I have also said that very many persons on leave must use the possibilities for continuing training we have now opened up. Because we've tried to tell a lot of people that there are more offers, there are opportunities in the future that you have to use, not least because we now see a combination of those that are affected by permits and leave, which are different from any other crisis, for example. the oil crisis. These are people with less completed upper secondary education and more long-term problems in the labour market. They needed to take advantage of the opportunity for that kind of activity, and I would encourage everyone to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e586	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e591	I would also like to thank you for a good debate after the presentation yesterday. There is not so much of the debate that has been about the infectious diseases measures, but I will comment on some of this. Firstly, I understand that there are a number of proposals relating to import infection for treatment, which have been promoted in the Chamber by a majority in the Grand Duchy. My overall assessment of those proposals is that these are proposals that have already been put in place or are under way, such as: the use of the MSIS register against the entry register, which was also a proposal from the Health Directorate, and which the Health Directorate and the Public Health Institute continue to work out. These are good measures that are all recommended by our professional authorities, which the government has followed up, and which are now in the process of being implemented. Yesterday at 17 o’clock mandatory testing was introduced at the border. That is a demanding requirement. It requires a lot from the municipalities that have border crossing points, to scale up the testing capacity to meet that requirement. It’s something that – that’s my impression – works well, but it’s demanding. Then, of course, it is quite justified to have a debate on the individual measures. Particular attention will be paid to the question of the continuation of the vigilance for one week to and a reassessment after that. I just want to say that it is also important that both the government, the health authorities and the whole community learn from the experience that we have put behind us in the harvest. There is no doubt that in the period when we were able to take action, there was a lot of attention around the individual measures. It is true with these measures that it is very easy both to document and to see the negative aspects of each measure, but it is very difficult to demonstrate the impact of individual measures on infection. That's unfortunately the situation we're in. This means that in a situation where we facilitate action, it is very tempting to find good arguments to facilitate one action, but where the sum of the consequences of it is not fully seen. What gets very demanding this spring is that the experience from the autumn was that the sum of the national measures, in addition to the good local response from the municipalities, was not enough to prevent wave two. It is an experience that is very important that we take into account in the further debate on the level of national measures throughout the spring, because this spring is going to be extremely demanding for the municipalities in particular for the extra task they have now had to carry out the vaccination. It brings me to the question from the representative of Marit Arnstad. Yes, my assessment, the government's assessment, is that we may have vaccinated the adult population in Norway who want to do so, for the summer, if everything is planned, is going well. But there is a great deal of uncertainty around which the Prime Minister has also been involved. These assessments are reinforced by the fact that very many other EU countries have the same assessment and are further strengthened by the fact that the European Commission also has the same assessment today, but with the same reservations that I have made about it. So we went to our vaccination program. It's really easy to explain that it's made up of three layers. The first team is that we have chosen to carry out the vaccination in Norway as a vaccination programme. That means we use the system that we have for vaccination every year. Our municipalities are vaccinating a lot of people every year, and that's what's at the bottom. In addition, we have the plans that exist in each municipality for the implementation of the covid-19 vaccination, based on the regular vaccination programme. These were reviewed and approved by the Heads of State on 23 December. The next layer is the necessary adjustments resulting from new information on the availability of vaccines. This means that there is now a great deal of work to prepare for the receipt of the AstraZeneca vaccine, which hopefully will be approved on 29 January. In February, one will receive 1.1 million doses and 3.6 million doses between March and June. So now there's some concrete work going on adjusting the plans of each municipality for receiving these vaccines, and for scaling up, and then we're going to go into a phase that looks more like mass vaccination.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e616	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e621	The vaccine is communicated as light in the tunnel, and in three weeks, since the first vaccine dose was set, 48 000 vaccine doses have been set. It's no wonder people are wondering when to go up and speed up. On questions in this room earlier, the Minister of Health has said that the strategy is not a mass vaccination strategy. Now both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health say that from March we can expect a strategy that is more similar to mass vaccination. My question to the Minister of Health is: what is the plan to get up the speed in the short and long term given that the doses that the deliveries are going to give us, i.e. a number of times more than we need in terms of population numbers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e626	Two types of vaccines are now being vaccinated in Norway, both of which are demanding. The first vaccine we started with is extra demanding. The second vaccine that has arrived in Norway is very small in number, and it is currently only in Oslo it is used. The main explanation of the pace in Norway compared to, for example, Denmark, which has been very strong, is that Norway has chosen to hold back dose two to make sure that people are being vaccinated at the right time. That choice seems to me to be good when we were informed on Friday on short notice that we received less deliveries this week than what was planned for. This means that Norway can maintain its planned vaccination rate despite delivery challenges. That's exactly what we wanted to take into account. So far in my article I have answered the next element of the question, namely the scaling up of the vaccination, which I explained how we are going to deal with in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e635	I thank you for your answer. I still feel that there is no clear objective when the adult population is to be vaccinated, but I heard the Prime Minister refer to the objectives of the European Union. I have a question about import infection. I live in an airport municipality, and according to the local authority doctor in my neighbouring municipality, the first week after Christmas they experienced that they had flights from Poland where almost all of them tested positive. The first start of mandatory testing this week may have given us challenges that we do not have an overview of because the trust-based system from 2 January turned out to have many weaknesses. How is the dialogue with the municipalities of the authorities that Bent Höie is controlling, in order to catch up with the imports we have received during these weeks, which are not being caught at the airport, as we want it to go from this week on?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e642	First of all, the ambition that the adult population that wants to get vaccinated will get vaccinated in the summer is an ambition that I have expressed over a long period of time. It is the same ambition that has also been expressed by a number of my colleagues in Europe. I believe that that assessment has been reinforced by the fact that the European Commission has today given the same assessment that I and my colleagues have made. It is not true that it became mandatory to test in Norway yesterday, it became mandatory to test itself from 2 January. The Health Directorate recommended that the government introduce this on 29 December, and it put in place on 2 January. But if we were to have testing on the border, we could not have introduced it on 2 January, then we probably had to wait until 18 January because of the very challenge of building up the capacity. We are still facing this challenge in a number of border stations. However, we considered it appropriate to introduce that measure from yesterday even though there were still challenges in border testing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e649	Now I think the Council of State very well describes the confusion that the municipalities are going to do all these tasks – test all these people, both their own people and those who come from abroad – are in. When Minister of Justice Monica Mæland launches this, she says that from Monday we start compulsory testing. When Bjørn Guldvog introduced this on 2 January, he said that it would be a test obligation from 2 January. The municipalities experienced that it was a trust-based system, and I would like to ask the Council of State: 59 local authorities wrote a chronicle with quite sharp criticism of the government because those who sit with the government locally have to listen to press conferences with more or less precise information. That's how they have to run their local management of the pandemic. Has the Council taken up any of this criticism? We experience that rapporteurs and municipal doctors get very messy and different information, and that they get it through the TV route. Is that good enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e655	There are two elements to the question. The first is the implementation of mandatory testing, and there we have a very close dialogue with the municipalities – that’s what the Health Directorate has. It is based on those assessments that an e.g. could not initiate testing at the border from 2 January but had to have the system to test within 24 hours in order to introduce an obligation to test at all. Then there's the dialogue with the municipalities, which means that from yesterday at 17 o'clock we could say that now it's a requirement, except on Svinesund. There are still challenges related to this in some of the smallest border stations, but yesterday we could introduce it. It's about the direct dialogue between the Health Directorate and the individual municipality that's in it. When it comes to the rapture from the municipal clinics, we take it very seriously. I also think it is very nice to see that the person who took the initiative for the rapture was out in the media very quickly afterwards and said that he really experienced being taken seriously by me and the Ministry of Health, and that the recordings they had were followed up, and that we have made improvements in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e670	I think it's very wise for the Council of State to take that criticism seriously. We have many months ahead of us, and even if we get more vaccines, the measures must be numerous and comprehensive. We have to have control of the border. The Prime Minister referred to rapporteur Ida Pinnerød in Bodø. As early as September, she began to express concern about the forthcoming winter fisheries and the resulting labour migration. The Minister for Fisheries, the Minister for Health, referred to Nav and looking for local labour, but we know that this does not work for parts of the business in Norway. We have to have control of the border. Local creativity has also been demonstrated by developing new systems to gain control. Now there will be small and large border crossings where there will still be people in the car, and it will be the responsibility of the municipalities to man these test stations. How will the government secure resources for what is the obvious responsibility of the state, namely to ensure border control?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e679	First of all, it's like maybe I'm less aware of what the representative describes, as criticism. I see it as we stand in this together, and that we are constantly getting input and suggestions for improvement, and that it points to challenges that we have to solve. Then we have that transparency -- we're trying to solve it together. When a number of rapporteurs in North Norway pointed out the challenges we faced when it came to winter fishing, we established a very close cooperation with the relevant municipalities, with the State Manager, the Health Directorate and Health Nord. As one of the most concerned rapporteurs said in the debate on this topic last week, they felt that for two months the government was working well to prepare the situation. That doesn't mean we can solve all the problems, and we're not left with any challenges, but we're trying to solve this together. That's how we have to stand in this situation. This is the same in the case of testing at the border. The government says we're paying the bill, but that doesn't mean the problem is solved. It is a very demanding problem, and that is some of the reasons why the directorate has been waiting for as long as they have recommended this measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e684	The Minister for Health said that he was not allowed to build up capacity until 2 January. But it would have been a good time if you had listened to the Progress Party, which already in August called for mandatory testing at the border. On 3 December the proposal was examined in Stortinget. Unfortunately, it was only the Workers' Party that supported it. The feedback from border guards is that Norway is the most stringent country on paper, but unfortunately there is no control over testing. Anyone can register as a social-critical person, whether you're a carpenter, a driver or a dentist. No later than Friday, people from the United Kingdom who were not escorted to the test station came, although they have been in practice in the past. We hear about the lack of control of those who come in, where they have traveled, and whether they are in quarantine. The rapporteur in Eidskog says that the municipality has to be a detective and look around the country for these people. Does the Minister of Health understand that people are provoked by the lack of border control?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e689	I understand very well that there are major challenges to this, because it is extremely demanding. This is also the reason why the government has continuously reinforced the control measures. The last thing we do now is build a state center. Any person travelling across the border will be called and, among other things, called. asked about quarantine, etc., to help the municipalities. Then you'll be able to find out if there are people you suspect violate the rules, and you can notify the municipalities directly about it. Here it is, for example. major language challenges, and it is unwise for each municipality to deal with them. It'll take too much. The picture of Norway’s having had a debilitating relationship with imports and, therefore, the need to introduce stricter national measures is not a true and fair picture if one compares Norway with other European countries. That's actually the opposite that's the case. Norway has always been in the upper reaches of strict import infection-related measures, but we have been in the middle of the tree with regard to national measures affecting the population of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e696	I think what provokes people is precisely that on paper these rules are strict, but in practice they work very badly. The council says people don't have strict restrictions. I don't think the Norwegian people feel that way. I don't think the children who only partially get to be at school experience it like that – nor do the older people who soon have been isolated for a year. Those who have been in the home office for almost a year don't feel that way. There's a lot of people now starting to get tired. That's why it's provocative to see that it's not control. I got a response from Svinesund, from someone who came there a short time ago. There was chaos and queue to get tested. It was chaos and queue when it came to ID. They had to enter the birth number manually. The patch on the test tube was written by hand. As he said, even the Post can print labels automatically. In the case of the test result itself, you were not even told – even after two days – whether you were healthy or infected. What does the Minister of Health think about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e706	What I think about this is that it shows how extremely demanding it is to establish the strict regime we have, which has been continuously strengthened. It's a difficult task that requires a lot of people. It requires the continuous establishment of e.g. digital solutions. Of course, we could have waited to introduce the different rules until we thought that everything worked perfectly when we implemented it, but that would have meant that many of these measures would have been introduced later, with the result that it had become less control. I am fully aware that it is entirely possible that the list to the representative of conditions that have not worked perfectly could be much longer. But if the best were to be the enemy of good, we would have less control of the border than what we have. The local authorities are at the heart of the municipal protection work, and they've been warning about the government's information strategy, because they thought it made it harder for their work. Now, the local authorities in the West have sent a distress message to the government administrator there about the labour pressure. They say that many have not been given leave in 2020. They'd like to be on standby around the clock. They work so much that they report health problems, and the trusted fears now that there will be redundancies soon, and that this will affect society's ability to deal with any new wave of infection. The last thing we need now is that the medical organization in the municipalities is collapsing, so I want to ask the government what the government is doing, if they see this problem, and if you have any plans for how to support local authorities in all the municipalities of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e715	Yeah, definitely. This is a huge challenge. We saw that this could be a big challenge, early in the fall, when we saw that this was a situation we were going to have over time. Obviously, many municipalities have very few resources associated with that role. That's why I asked the Health Directorate to monitor this, and the feedback from there just confirms this challenge. Therefore, we have also been very clear to the municipalities that this is a role that they should now use the increased resources to strengthen, even if it is demanding. One can sometimes increase the employment rate for those who have, one can work even better with the municipality, so that one distributes the burden between themselves, and one can also recruit new people. I have been very clear in the meetings I have had both directly with the municipalities and with the state administrators, that this is a situation that we are going to face in the summer, and then one can not only rely on the redeployment of one's own personnel, one must also recruit new ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e722	Thanks for the answer. I also have another question for the distribution. The pandemic has had consequences for many health care users, not just the coronary patients. I have requested an explanation of this from the government, but I have not heard anything about it. Many have experienced treatment interruptions or delayed investigations. I've been especially busy with the spaces. According to the VG, at least 77 patients who were undergoing ongoing drug treatment were printed out when the pandemic broke out in the spring. They also tell us that one of them took his own life shortly afterwards. This shows that this can have serious and dramatic consequences when it comes to patients at high risk. I'd like to hear from the government's government's plan to ensure that junkrooms and others at high risk are kept under the pandemic, and that one avoids more tragic events.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e729	Firstly, there is no doubt that the situation we were in in March, when health services had to take down much of their planned activity, meant that many patients who were not covid-19 patients were severely affected. It was also quite central in some of the presentations we made behind it. The situation now is, first of all, that the most important thing we can do to avoid this happening again is to control the infection. This is also about the fact that if there is a high level of infection in society, there will also be a high level of infection in healthcare. Health care workers are not protected from the infection that is elsewhere in society, so many will be quarantined, and manning will be reduced. The second is that we have also made clear priority rules, such as: to give priority to drug use and mental health. The third is the allocation granted from 2021, which is a sharp increase just to try to recover some of what was postponed in 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e741	I've met a lot of vulnerable people after they got infected by the corona. Several reports clearly say that several people get long-term problems even when the virus is out of the body. The municipalities not only have huge costs of testing, infectiveness detection, vaccination and extra tasks due to quarantine, but also with the long-term follow-up and rehabilitation of people who have become ill with covid-19. Can the Minister guarantee that the municipalities will be able to cover the costs they have with covid-19, including the rehabilitation costs?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e748	Rehabilitation of these patients is a topic we have discussed frequently. We have also followed up the decisions taken in the Stortingen relating to the establishment of plans for the rehabilitation of these patients. But in this area, it's still very early in having knowledge of what the needs and experiences are. This is also something I think we will have the benefits of working with other countries about. For natural reasons, Sweden has a higher proportion of people who have been through covid-19. A patient organisation for these has already been established. I also discuss with my Nordic colleagues how we can share experiences on this, because it would be very useful in a situation where Norway has significantly fewer patients with this experience than some other countries have. With regard to the long-term impact on municipalities and their need for rehabilitation, there is something we need to get back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e755	Last year the exercise Cold Response was canceled because the management of a major outbreak of infection during the exercise would make the defense completely dependent on the civil health system. The health of the defense does not even have the capacity to handle large quantities of infected or sick soldiers, and in the event of a major outbreak of infection, the health services in Troms and Finnmark would have major problems. Has the Council of State brought with it the unrest that is now taking place in North Norway, and does the Council of State see that there is a concern that little has been done by the government to strengthen an already weakened health care system in the north, a health care system that is now to provide preparedness for several thousand foreign soldiers, at the top of other and other infectious imports?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e762	We were in a completely different situation last year related to this. It was a much more inconspicuous situation. We had much less experience dealing with the pandemic than you have this year. The conduct of these exercises is important for Norway’s safety. The fact that the defense is also trained in demanding situations is part of our preparedness. But we also need to assess the issues that the representative addresses, and that has also been done in this context. The feedback we get from both Health Nord and the most affected municipalities is that they believe they have the capacity to handle this. We are now in an initial phase, and that means that this can change as a result of the disease situation internationally, in Norway and in North Norway. That is why we have close dialogue with the Defence about it and can make changes along the way if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e767	The cord shift is over. The President would like to inform us that all the proposals are now available in the saddle, after all also on paper in the hall. There are a total of 77 proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e774	Hopefully, we're at the beginning of the line at the end. We don't know how long it will be. That's why it's too early to breathe out, but we're going to take the light points. It is important to get out of this crisis in a way that preserves the strength of what enabled Norwegian society to deal with the crisis so effectively. And that's important for us to be able to meet the challenges that are still ahead of us. The crisis is not over. We're waiting for some demanding months. However, Norway is one of the best countries in terms of health as well as in terms of economics. The decline in mainland GDP probably ended around 3 pst. in 2020. It's less than we feared, and less than in most other countries in the world. Also for 2021 it looks better than many fears. Several predictive environments have adjusted their estimates, and most expect the growth of the mainland economy to be 3.5-4 pst. this year. 90 pst. by the Norwegian economy has managed to keep up the activity, and I am impressed by how businesses and workers have learned to live with infectious measures, have been creative and have found new ways to make money. But for many, the crisis has hit extra hard. In travel, restaurant, culture and transport, about a quarter of the activity is gone. For them, the situation is very demanding. Two thirds of those who were licensed in the spring are back to work, but there are still many without work. The crisis is raging. I am particularly concerned about long-term unemployment, for young people and those with weak links to the labour market. We must avoid the fact that the greatest bill for the crisis ends with them. That is why we have put forward strong measures for work and inclusion, and more is coming. Vaccination gives us confidence that the measures of infection can gradually be phased out. Then the economy will probably shoot speed again. Together with an expansionary state budget for 2021, it will contribute to activity across the country. But as long as we have infectious measures, we also need financial measures. We're going to help the viable businesses through the crisis, so that as many as possible have a job to go to and the growth can recover the day this is over. On 29 January we come with a new crisis package, and we have already announced that we will extend both the compensation system and the permitting system. Developing crisis measures involves addressing many dilemmas, and the longer the crisis lasts, the more dilemmas arise. It is not only good to extend aid schemes, increase compensation rates or postpone payments of taxes. Managing a crisis is not a competition to spend as much money as possible, but it is about measures that can secure businesses and jobs, and we have those measures. It is essential that we also be able to get out of the crisis in a way that ensures our good basis for further growth and value creation in the longer term. There will be crises after this, and we have to make sure that our starting point is at least as good as dealing with them. In June last year, the government presented the strategy for Norway’s way out of the crisis. It was about creating more and including more. This strategy is also the basis of the government’s government budget for 2021. It's about helping people get back to work. It's about creating more jobs in the private sector and having more legs to stand on. It's about the green shift and making it easier for green growth. It's about the education promise and building skills. It's about including more. And it's about maintaining security and trust. These are key elements of the government’s strategy for reopening society – for Norway’s way out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e795	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e800	NHO, LO, many companies and other organisations have said over the past week that extending the permit regime until 1 June does not provide enough predictability. What knowledge does the government have? What's the difference between the NHO, LO and the companies we're hearing experience out there, and that government's on the edge of knowledge, when you think we're extending too long?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e805	If I am not completely wrong, it was probably the Workers' Party's demand that the permitting system be maintained until the summer. The government has fulfilled this – not because of the Labour Party’s demands, but because we believe it is right. I announced at the beginning of December last year that the government would consider an extension. At the same time, we must recognise that there are some dilemmas in this type of permitting mechanism. The hairdressing centre together with Oslo Economics has demonstrated that the longer people are on the daycare allowance, the longer people are on the leave, the longer the path can be back to work. We can't rule out any further extension being relevant, but we also have to admit that there are some dilemmas. We have faith that when we get to summer, the economy will be going up, and there will be jobs coming back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e812	Thanks for the answer. The Labour Party made a demand that we extend the leave arrangements until 1 July in our alternative budget. Then, as the Council of State is familiar with, it has happened quite a lot after that. New disease prevention measures came just over the New Year without any action being taken there. But I understand that the Council of State bases its positions on, among other things, reports from the Frischsenteret and Oslo Economics. Last Sunday, the Prime Minister said that it was not appropriate to extend the permit arrangements. But on Monday the government made a proposal that they should be extended. What new knowledge did the government gain from Sunday to Monday that caused that expansion to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e821	If I am not completely wrong, the Prime Minister answered the question of enlargement to October. And we're skeptical about that. It's not just a good thing for the workers with very long lay-off schemes, because it's documented through research that the longer you're on the leave, the longer you go on the day's pay, the less likely you're going back to work. That's what I'm concerned about, that people should have a job to go back to. I am surprised if it is such that the Workers' Party does not see that there are any dilemmas about this. I believe it is right to extend the permitting mechanism because we now see that there are some demanding months ahead of us. However, most predictive environments now estimate that Norway will grow at 3.5-4 pst. in 2021, and we will facilitate the creation and securing of many jobs as the infectious diseases measures are reduced. The financial measures must play a role in the fight against infectious diseases – it has been our strategy all the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e829	Thanks for the answer. The dilemmas that the Council of State is drawing up here are well-known – the Workers' Party also acknowledges them. But they don't work in a situation where there are 200,000 people out of work and there are practically no job vacancies. Then it's not like you can just go back to a normal job and apply for it, because it's not easy to get, and especially not for those who are the furthest away from the labour market. The permit arrangement is an arrangement that is largely owned by the parties. The government says they're busy listening to the parties. Why, then, do you not hear from the very clear recordings that come from the NHO and large workers' organisations that it is too early on 1 July as the situation is now, and that they must start to cancel already in March, because the notice periods are long? Why do you choose to ignore the heavy recordings that are coming?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e838	The government has had very close contact with the social partners during this crisis and also before, and I believe it is important. It has enabled us to find measures that take, and not least to be able to implement them quickly. So the representative says that this is the situation right now, it's too early. Yes, I agree. It's too early now. But what the Workers' Party has now come in for is to extend until October. It's nine months from now. My question back will almost be: What knowledge does the representative of Aasrud have about the situation in October? Most of the assessments now underpinned by the government are that we want a different infection situation when we get closer to summer, because more people are vaccinated, but also that the economy wants to deal with it. It would be wrong to have support schemes that help to keep the activity down. We must have financial measures for the duration of the crisis, but they must play with the measures to protect the disease.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e847	I would like to answer the Council of State's questions. Because it must be that the government believes very little in the measures they put in place. If the measures put in place by the government work as soon as it is assumed that they will be done, knowing what summer is like by the end of March, there is no danger of extending the permitting regimes. I don't think any businesses are going to let the employees go on leave if they have a job. I don't think any employees will go on poor income insurance schemes if they can come back to work. So the question is, why does the government think – it has to be – that businesses are not going to take up the situation and use the opportunities to get their business going? Nobody's forcing people to perm until October 1st. No one forces companies to use the packages of measures that are if they do not need them. Does not the government have faith in its own actions? There is a question the Council of State should answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e852	The answer to that is, of course, we do. We also have good confidence and confidence in the world of work. I know Business Norway well and know that you fight every day to save jobs and secure jobs. I hope that many people use the situation that is now, to take education while they go on a daily allowance. It is a very important measure during this crisis, precisely building skills so that you can get back to a safer job. But we also have to look at experience, listen to knowledge and research, and that's where we see that the longer you're licensed, the more likely you're not going back to work. I'm worried about such a development. I'm worried about long-term unemployment. Therefore, our actions are to reduce unemployment, secure jobs and help increase skills.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e859	Before Christmas, the representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum and the Center Party were wearing Norwegian slips and called for billions of support for Norwegian, without a requirement for creditors to contribute. Of course, the Progress Party also wants Norwegian to be okay, but we wouldn't be on proposals that could result in filling the bank account of Chinese and foreign creditors with Norwegian people's money. Since then, Norwegian has been under arrest; they have restructured the company. The question is whether the grips would have been done if the Norwegian State had given them so much money. My question is whether the Minister of Finance agrees with the Progress Party that distributing billions of dollars at that time would have led us to waste the Norwegian people's money in the pockets of Chinese and foreign creditors.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e866	The government parties and the Progress Party agreed on these questions before Christmas. The Prime Minister also answered these questions in a spontaneous pre-Christmas hour, about the consequences of the proposals of the Central Party. Now the representative is aware that the government has proposals for evaluation, so I can give no further assessments of this now. We're dealing with a listed company, and the government's assessments are done when they're done, and will then become known.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e871	Of course, we look forward to getting the government's assessments of it. In the case of a compensation scheme, a majority in Stortinget now wants to put it in place for aviation. It's not just about Norwegian, it's about Onions, it's about SAS, which is extremely important for Norway, for both business and ordinary people, that people can get around the country, whether it's a business trip, visiting the genus or whatever it should be. How will the government follow up the decision to put in place a compensation scheme for the aviation industry, and when can we expect to get a case back on that?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e876	Let me first say that the government has been setting up aviation since the crisis started. Many measures have been put in place in cooperation with the Progress Party. I guess it's across 17 billion. kr used against aviation. That's a lot of money. It has been absolutely necessary because we depend on having a satisfactory route offer in Norway, and we are concerned that we should also have a functioning aviation when this crisis is over. Then we will record the proposals that have been put forward and we will now assess them in terms of totality. I have already informed that we are submitting our proposal on 29 January.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e883	Unfortunately, the debate so far has been marked by an expressed reluctance both from the government councils and from the representatives of the government parties in the Stortinget – a reluctance to ensure greater predictability for both workers, businesses, self-employed and freelancers through the crisis, and for persons who have long-term leave. It is demanding to go on long-term leave and get back to work. But I think most people would choose to come back to their old job in October instead of being quit in June. Well, that's the situation that many people are going to be in. Yes, we can hope that one towards the summer gets the effect of vaccination, that the wheels of the economy in the hardest hit industries are starting to get started again. But that everyone on the platform can come back instantly – it has to be gradually starting up again in these companies. It is therefore not only the workers, but also the companies are concerned with getting more time, so that one can take back the skilled workers who have been on leave and who have longed to get back, but also to ensure that one does not go beyond the end, and that one is required to resign.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e888	I just have to start by saying that I fundamentally disagree with the claim that the government and the state councils show reluctance. On the contrary, throughout this crisis, we have been clear that we are going to do what we can to make Norway get out of the crisis. And we've done it in cooperation with Stortinget. So far is the situation that Norway is among the world’s best-off countries, both economically and healthably. Then there's a disagreement, and we have to be able to deal with that, between the Center Party and the government parties, about what are the right tools for us to get out well. We believe that the financial measures must play a role in the fight against infectious diseases. When we have strict disease protection measures, favourable leave arrangements and favourable support schemes are right. However, when measures for the protection of infection are reduced, we need to stimulate activity and conversion. It is important both in the short term and in the longer term to secure businesses and jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e895	The centre party has been committed to ensuring the safety of workers, enterprises, self-employed persons and freelancers through schemes that last for the duration of the pandemic. It is the uncertainty that is constantly being created, rather than providing a long-term perspective, so that businesses can also plan. When, for example: After all, for most companies receiving compensation, there is no fat at all. One receives that compensation to be able to stay liquid, and in order to have a perspective of being able to have a new activity, that one should survive the crisis and get people back to work, and perhaps also convert and get new value creation and activity. So having favourable arrangements of sufficient duration is important both to ensure security and predictability in the present and to ensure a plan out of the crisis. In addition, we must have stronger measures than the government and the support party so far, the Progress Party, have been willing to undertake conversion and activity. Why is one not willing both to provide more predictability and security in time and to be more effective in counter-cyclical measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e901	We can't brake and give gas at the same time. That's what the Center Party is asking for. Support schemes are requested to help keep the activity down and to allow people to be permitted, while at the same time providing gas. I can't. We have to make sure that the financial measures play a part in the fight against infectious diseases, and the most important financial measure is to keep the infection down. That's why the government is so concerned that we have to have strict infection protection measures when the situation is as uncertain as it is now. Then we're going to have financial measures as long as the crisis lasts, but they have to be adapted to the situation we're in. Now that we have strict measures to protect the disease, it is quite right to have a favourable compensation scheme with support for companies that have lost their business. However, in a situation where the activity is taking up and the measures taken to prevent infection, we need to phase out those measures and facilitate activity and conversion, so that we can have a high-growth business and safe jobs across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e908	Of course, it is possible to have a brake in some areas – to keep the activity down in some areas – while at the same time helping to increase activity where there is room for it. In some order-based industries, in the construction sector, construction and maritime industries, the challenge is that the order books are in the process of being empty, and there is room to plan for new activity and to carry out more activity if the state uses its power directly, but also through municipalities and counties, to facilitate more predictability and to plan for more activity, why is there no more foresight in those areas where there is actual demand, where one says that within the current disease protection measure, one can contribute more? Why does one not help to increase predictability and use the power of the state to pursue an active counter-cyclical policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e913	With all due respect, it's been a few weeks since the Stortinge decided on the budget for 2021. It is a very expansive budget – a very expansive budget, which will help us create more and include more, and that we will grow in private business in the future. So the bottom plan here is an expansive budget that will create security and predictability, and not least make Norway well out of the crisis. Last June we presented the strategy for Norway's way out of the crisis. In the current situation, we need to think in the short term about how to create security for those who are now fighting for their business, but also about how to get out of the crisis, and how to create growth in the future. That's the perspective the government has, and then we've also promised that there are some dilemmas, to say it carefully, with the suggestions that the Center Party is making to promote today, because they could help keep the activity down when we can take up the activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e918	Since March last year SV has been concerned that the aid schemes with which the State and the Community contribute must be accompanied by requirements for farm owners, for landlords, for those receiving that aid. We have not succeeded in obtaining a majority of those demands, but nevertheless there have been some important calls from the majority and from the Storing. Among other things, last year’s Storting concluded that it is important for the lessors not to use the option of compensation for tenants, by not contributing through reduced rentals themselves, and that it is assumed that the lessees will be reduced during the period of closure or strong sales decline of the lessee. So the Storting also asked the government to follow the situation in this market carefully. My question is whether the Minister of Finance and the Ministry have followed and assessed whether the lessors have reduced the rent where the tenants have received compensation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e923	I agree with what the Storting expressed last year, and I have also said something of the same thing myself. We also believe that those who receive support should be careful about dividends. But for some, dividends are needed to pay taxes and taxes, and it may also be right to invest in new jobs. In terms of renting, the situation is probably both more complex and not quite as simple as the instruments that might have been used. But we know that even landlords have reduced the rent, and some have done it simply because they themselves have a self-interest in the survival of the companies, so that you can receive rental income even when the crisis is over. So in some contexts we have to use, I was saying, the moral force we have, and appeal to both business leaders, owners and others to show moderation and contribute to the virtues. It's not always that you can use a law to achieve what you want.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e930	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e935	Yesterday. 8 opened the new compensation scheme in the Brønnøsund Registers. They now receive applications for the September/October and November/December 2020 periods. I don't know. Today, 425 companies had been granted aid for a total of 72 million. kr. For the moment we see that the industries with most applications are hotels and catering, which have received over 40 pst. of the aid. If the application is curated, it will only take a few seconds before it is processed and sent for payment. Many companies got money in the account yesterday, and others will get it after just a few days, depending on how long the bank spends on the payment. We have now created a system that can be taken up or down, and that can be extended in time, as needed. There is a system that is likely to deal with between 5000 and 9000 applications in minutes, and only to put it slightly into perspective: In a common year, Innovation will treat Norway approximately. 4500 applications for grants. This scheme can therefore deal with more applications per minute than Innovation Norway does in a whole year. In order to avoid so many applications, we are completely dependent on an automatic system, and then we cannot impose costs that require manual assessments. In that case, the scheme will not work as we have intended for it to work, and the companies will have to wait much longer for money to be paid. I note that the majority of people want to make some adjustments to the scheme, but I also note that the majority will primarily increase the adjustment factor and extend the time horizon. In other words, the working party has not been given a majority to change the system that covers loss of income instead of fixed costs. And maybe that's it, because with the Workers' Party system, we could either be dealing with a number of companies that had profits, which they could have put right in their pocket without doing anything, or we could have set the coverage so low – to avoid companies running with profits – that many would be standing without having to cover their expenses. I think we have to agree that a perfect system does not exist, but the system we have today, where we base ourselves on covering costs, is a targeted system to help companies with costs in a difficult time, with the aim of avoiding unnecessary bankruptcy. The Prime Minister stood here on the pulpit yesterday and said that the government will continue to invest in change and development. We will because it's the right medicine. We know that things are going to change according to the corona, and we know that a lot of companies both want and have the opportunity to do conversion work in the period we're in now. We have received many applications in the past when we have asked for conversion funds through Innovation Norway, and we will continue to work on how this can best be done in the future. Just before Christmas, the government parties at Stortinget agreed with the Advance Party to grant 250 million. kr, allocated to municipalities with higher unemployment than average. Many municipalities threw themselves around and quickly got the funds out to needing businesses, and most of the feedback I have received from these funds has been very good. There has been a sore need for money. Most municipalities have tried to get money out of business quickly, but we also hear about examples where municipalities spend their money cleaning up municipal buildings or as income to themselves against reducing rent for municipal land. The government has always said that we will deal with economic measures as long as the pandemic makes it necessary, but these need to be adapted. Because we're getting out of this, and then it's going to be activity. Then it will be about getting people back to work, creating new jobs and increasing value creation. Today's arrangements don't necessarily do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e952	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e957	It is good to note that the scheme opened yesterday works, but business has been without an aid scheme since September. There has been a rather demanding time for many enterprises, and many companies have gone bankrupt because there has not been an aid scheme in which they could draw up the necessary grants for liquidity in a demanding period of time. The reason for this is that the government neglected at the entrance of the summer. That's why you got into a difficult situation. The fact that it now works in January was just to be missing. Then my question is very clear: From what is now available, will the Minister of Industry believe that it is right to say from now on to the companies that the aid scheme lasts until 1 July, is correct, and that there is an adjustment factor of 0,85? Can the Minister of Industry contribute and contribute to the predictability of business?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e964	Let me just make it very clear that the reason business is in a desperate situation is that we have a global pandemic -- a pandemic that is not predictable, a pandemic that not only affects us and our business, but the whole world, Europe. It makes trade go down, it makes it much harder to move between borders, it makes it necessary for us to stay calm more than what business is usually used to. It is difficult to put in place such a system that we now opened on Monday. The Brønnøsund registers have done a formidable job of developing this platform, to create a system that is so robust that we can take it up, we can bring it down, we can take it out in time. That's why we now have a system where we can do exactly what the Storting is proposing today, take it up and take it out. It is now technically possible, and it will be able to stand over time, unlike the one we had before, which was less automatic and therefore required a lot of manual treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e971	I thought a Minister of Industry from the Left was busy giving business some predictability for a demanding time. Now that a very clear majority in the UK say that the support system for business will last until 1 July, the Minister of Industry cannot accept that there is a need for it. It is most remarkable when we very clearly hear the NHO, the Works, the LO and the companies say that the time horizon on which the government has invested is unpredictable. It doesn't create enough room for action to think ahead, one must have in place a system that lasts in time. That is why a very clear majority in the European Parliament today is going to decide that the system will last until 1 July, precisely to create predictability. Why does the Minister of Industry lack an understanding of the needs of business for just predictability?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e977	This government has always said that we should take financial measures as long as the pandemic and the disease control measures make this necessary. This government has now placed great emphasis on setting up a system that can just be expanded, which can just be taken up and down, in order to provide the support that is needed at all times. That's exactly why we've made a new arrangement, that's exactly why we don't have it in the tax code anymore, but have transferred it to the Brønn Island Health Registers. That's exactly why we've now done it automatically, in order to be able to do the same grip that the Storting today says they want to do. Then there's a political assessment whether we think it's wise to continue action that's the coin of inactivity. This is a compensation scheme in which more support is given to the larger trade cases. But the fact that it is possible to extend it is exactly what the government has arranged for it to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e984	That the government – let's say – appears as the Minister of Industry now says to a hard-pressed business life, I think only a Minister of Industry can understand. When you talk to business now, it's still a demanding and unexplained situation. One doesn't know what's going on. We hear about serving sites that are now rather beers in the drain, we hear about warehouses that are lost, and we hear about a number of companies that do not come under the compensation scheme, which do not get any coverage there. That's what we hear about if you talk to business, and if you don't lock yourself in government offices. So my question is, how will the Minister of Industry meet all those who now fall outside the scheme, who do not receive support and have to pour out the beer or throw out the stock, or who do not come within the scheme that is there? There are very clear notices that the system that is established is not working well enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e991	First of all, I have good contact with the business community. I'm talking to big players, I'm talking to small actors. It is a demanding and unexplained situation. I am also concerned that the Storting understands that although we extend the compensation scheme, it will still be a demanding and unexplained situation for the business community. There will still be costs that will not be covered by the compensation scheme, there will still be companies that feel that it does not. This one system is unable to deal with all the eventualities of a crisis like ours. That's why the government has also been so concerned that this is the bottom plan, this is the broad scheme that's going to hit everybody, but in addition we have other schemes that complement, that fill in. That's why we have a conversion system, which hits the travel life, parts of the catering industry, the event and event industry. That's why we gave 250 million. kr through the municipalities, just to be able to cover other types of expenditure than a compensation scheme can handle.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e998	The majority today promote a number of proposals aimed at remedying the situation of enterprises that are not necessarily adequately addressed in the compensation scheme in place. It is about the maintenance and supervision required by the Authority. It is a valve arrangement to ensure that those who are not taken directly by the compensation scheme can actually receive attention, such as start-up companies, companies that have to pay losses in respect of their warehouse, etc., etc. My question is: will the Minister of Industry take the initiative or will the additional measures now be implemented quickly, so that the business community can have access to what is now very clearly expressed as the basis of the majority in the Grand Duchy?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1005	I strive to be honest in all my do and load, and especially when I am here in Stortinget. That's why I'm going to be completely open and honest with the representative. Two of the proposals he mentions here that are being promoted today are going to be demanding, will be difficult and will take time to implement. It's e.g. maintenance costs imposed by the authority. As the proposal is formulated, it is difficult to see how it is defined. It is difficult to see how this can be done automatically and not require much manual treatment. This with the valve system: The government also had a manageable, but demanding idea of a valve arrangement when we looked at a compensation scheme for travel life, because then we were concerned that those who were connected to travel life, such as the store at the Gardermoen or the summer store in Fåm, could get into a valve arrangement even if they did not have NACE code in travel life. But it must have a purpose, and there must be some criteria. The two proposals are going to be demanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1012	It was nice to hear the enthusiasm of the Council of State about the compensation scheme, which has now recovered in Brønnøysund. That's good. But in yesterday's presentation, the Prime Minister spoke about the migration system for travel, the event industry and the food industry, and the government's signals were in the direction of strengthening this system. This is a very good signal, because all the applications that have come to this scheme, through two calls, indicate that it is popular – that is one thing – and that it also hits correctly. Then my question to the Council of State is how the government plans to extend and strengthen the scheme, and whether it is possible to avoid shortening the applications that have now been submitted to the last call by the deadline in January, because they exceed the framework that has been granted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1019	In the proposition that has been mentioned several times, we want to come back to how this can be arranged. I believe that thinking about change and innovation in the time we're in now is the right medicine, and it also shows the applications and the number of applications that it is. I see the Stortinget up there that you really agree with the government that we have to look at the device a little bit, because maybe we have to have the next round of applications in a way that makes us hit a little bit different parts of the business, that we have a little bit of different criteria. But this is what we're working on now, and we'll come back to Stortinget with our suggestions on how this can be done in a way that's good for business, for businesses, and that's also good in the long term, given that we're getting some power out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1026	The Central Party has been busy with aviation throughout the crisis. Aviation is important because the airlines and the associated companies employed a lot of people. But it's also important for the rest of our business and people in Norway that we have a well-functioning flight offer. SAS, Onkøe and Norwegian – three Norwegian airlines, which are usually considered to have been allocated a number of schemes to aviation for the time being, but they have not been granted a compensation scheme such as has been made available to other companies and industries. Now there is a plurality of Stortinget saying that such a compensation scheme should be put in place for aviation, to the delight of SAS, Onyøe and Norwegian. My question is: what time does the Minister of Industry see that such a compensation scheme, which also covers aviation, can be up and running?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1031	This is something that the government is already working on, precisely because we have an agreement with the Progress Party here in Stortinget before Christmas, where the government was asked to take a closer look at this. So this is the Ministry of Transport doing well. It's true, as the representative says, there's been a lot of attention around aviation. I have also spent a lot of time on aviation myself. One thing is that we've been looking at and looking at a compensation scheme, but we've had a number of aviation schemes so far. We have the legislation on perm here in Norway, which is different from the other countries where these airlines operate and are based, is good and has been costing a lot of money. We purchased a route offer, which both I and the representative enjoyed when we commuted home to our homes. We have contributed a guarantee facility of 6 billion. kr, where several airlines have now withdrawn. And now we have a specific request from Norwegian that we consider.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1038	Another theme that the Center Party has been busy for is the bias in the compensation scheme. The enterprises that are based on residents and on the rental of locals come out relatively better than those that own their own means of operation, own themselves, build themselves and have fixed additions. There's a biased relationship here, and this is also one thing multiples are asking the government to look at. Then is my question: Is the council agreed that this has a weakness in the system so far? The reason I'm asking is that my impression is that government councils work better with things they're in, than if they're very disagreeable.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1052	At least I will assure the representative that I am going to work well on this proposal that is now being adopted. But I want to clarify one thing: the system today does not distinguish between own employees or hired personnel. Today’s system does not cover wages and salaries, and it covers the purchase of services to a small extent – it is an exception for accounting and auditing. When it comes to owning or renting, it's true that there's a difference. You get the cost of renting, leasing, while you get the cost of interest, but not depreciation if you own it. We're really going to look at this and see how we can do this in a good way. But here, too, I think it is necessary to tell the Storting that taking depreciation, for example, could lead to new distortions, because that would mean that those who have new means of operating could get more than those who have old and depreciated means. So there's no perfect solution to this, but we're going to look at this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1059	The Council of State said that migration and innovation will be the leader in the crisis measures we are implementing. It is easy to agree, but at the same time it must be noted that climate change instruments, on the green side, have been too weak in the Norwegian crisis policy. Compared to the EU, to which the Council of State is otherwise willing to disperse, one third of the crisis package was where green measures to cut greenhouse gas emissions and convert them. In Norway, there has been much less, and oil companies have been granted large subsidies. The reason I emphasize this is that the government, according to the Council of State, is now working on just such a scheme for the airlines – a compensation scheme. My question is: are climate requirements and expectations for conversion in the airlines part of that work, as it has been in other countries, where clear targets have been set for cutting emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1066	Let me first remind the representative that it was this hall that gave large subsidies to the oil industry. If the representative remembers that, then the government's proposal was completely different from what happened after we had negotiated with, among other things. the friends the representative has here in Stortinget. In the case of climate change, I do not fully agree with the picture the representative is trying to make. Among other things, we have a big bet we call the Green Platform – 1 billion. NOK – and it was very well received out there. I believe it is something that can be a future platform, not just a covid-19 scheme. We have to get back to that. As I said, in terms of the aviation industry, we are working on the compensation scheme. We have the specific enquiry from Norwegian, and we will come back to that when we present our proposal in Stortinget, but I can already tell the representative that I feel that the airlines themselves are also concerned with the question that the representative raises.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1075	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1082	Infectious and financial measures must go hand in hand. Although the Workers' Party and the rest of the opposition have pressed for less government support, new anti-infection measures are being presented again and again, without the financial measures being followed. We can't have it like that. People and businesses deserve more security, more justice and more predictability. The compensation schemes put forward to companies, which we are strengthening here today, will motivate more activity, and we think it will work. We have faith in the measures we are taking, and unlike the representative of Greece, we believe that the companies do not abuse the stipulations. That is not the way we are going to impose the obligation to leave until 1 October. We also don't think that the licensed will try to extend the period of leave, so they won't get into work. They don't make too much money for that. No one wants to extend that period of leave. There are also few other jobs to go to, so as to think that you could go to another job, there are very, very few that have it as a solution to the situation you're in. And there is an employer's period II, which means that employers have to think about before they continue to permit. In his reply to me instead, the Minister of Finance said that it was important to invest in competence. We agree, but there are almost twice as many people out of the labour market today, as it was a year ago, or when the pandemic came, and that's just 6 pst. several measures being taken. It shows that the government does not ensure that those who are outside the labour market, those who are not on leave, but nevertheless are unemployed, those who have difficulty getting into the labour market, get the hand bill they need from the state. Schemes need to be reinforced so that more people can get help, help, get motivated, get skills to get back to work. Finally, the Prime Minister invited us to send some of the proposals that were put forward here today to be discussed in the Labour and Social Committee. We don't think that's a good solution, but I'm going to ask the government to make an additional proposition quickly. There aren't many lines that it needs to contain. These are pretty familiar things. Then the government gets quick, make an additional proposition, and we can deal with it at the same time as the matter that is already here. Then I should say something about holiday money, the injustice that 250,000 people go into the holiday with. It's completely unreasonable. Here we have to get a better solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1095	The centre party is busy helping them at the base of 200,000 unemployed in Norway. The centre party is occupied by the many ten thousand added, business owners and self-employed people who experience insecurity. The most important thing for the Centre Party has been to put in place measures that limit the negative consequences of the pandemic. We have listened, discussed and developed policies. Then we have negotiated with the other party. And there is no doubt that the Storting's role in managing the economic consequences of the pandemic has contributed positively. It's got scared businesses and it's got scared jobs in all of Norway. It may seem that the walls around the Storting are lower than around the government quarter, so that businesses and workers have been listening to the Stortinget. The centre party will have more long-termity in crisis management. The government's frequent press conferences may give both attention and publicity to the government party, but it does not provide long-termity for businesses and workers, and it does not provide hope for the unemployed. Therefore, it is good that Stortinget takes responsibility again. Self-employed people, whether taxi drivers or artists, are not members of the government. Imagine that taxi drivers, who try to earn some income, don't get their daily money depending on how much they think, not on how much they run, but on how long they wait for customers. It's going to be cleaned up now. The centre party believes that reason is also important in crisis management. The centre party is concerned about the long-term consequences of the crisis. The decline in tourism, the food industry and the cultural sector will leave lasting track, and communities can be permanently changed. Actions that we adopt today will not solve everything, so the job must continue, and I fear that it will continue with the Storting in the driver's seat and the government on the slip. There are no new offensive tactics from the government today. We heard earlier today that the Left and Christian People's Party was actually more concerned with the process and its own woe and well than with the parts of the business that were here. We heard earlier today that the prime minister and government councils and representatives from the government party had not been seen on the proposals. Now they've already concluded that there's a lot of difficulty in implementing them. I want to encourage the government to have a positive attitude to the decisions that are being made today, and to implement them, because the Storting has shown earlier that we are willing to take responsibility, and that is what we are doing today, and that is what a government must follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1108	Norway is in crisis even though the death rates are low compared with other countries. We also know that this common virtue to which the Prime Minister refers is very skeptical. Ordinary people, vulnerable children and young people, elderly and sick people, businesses and workers pay the price for very invasive disease prevention measures. The government therefore owes it to do what is the responsibility of the government, namely to protect its citizens by getting the import centre under control. The test obligation introduced from 2 January proved to be a system full of weaknesses. Only yesterday did the government start compulsory testing from abroad. We should have been going on before. It is essential now that municipalities receive the necessary resources and assistance to implement this safely and with the greatest possible protection of health professionals who need to assist with other important health care tasks, including vaccination. Therefore, the Labour Party, together with the opposition, promotes a number of proposals for better control of imports. The government says that it prioritises avoiding interventional measures that affect children and young people. However, they tightened in front of them just after the New Year. Youth schools and secondary schools were placed in red. It doesn't mean closed schools, but it means more home school and less presence. The offer got worse. At the same time, organised leisure activities were also paused for children and young people. These measures were also introduced in non-infectious municipalities, where infection rates were very, very low. The children’s ombudsman, Inga Bejer Engh, believes that the measures were too strict, and that they particularly affect vulnerable children and young people. They are now cancelled, and it is again the responsibility of the municipalities to determine from the local infection situation – a responsibility of the municipalities is well-founded to take, we believe in the Workers' Party. They've shown the ability to respond quickly, and they've also shown creativity and have gone a long way in this pandemic. Finally, I would like to say something about vaccination. The Health Minister could tell us yesterday that there have been 48 000 doses of vaccine. That number confirms that we're unfortunately still in deficit. The number is below the objective set by the Institute of Public Health and the Government, and that means that the speed and pressure must be set so that this word, which has established itself, ‘acute vaccination’, can be parked.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1121	This pandemic is beginning to incur high costs for many in Norway. We who live in this country must live with strict restrictions: there are children who go to school part of the time, a red level was introduced against the will of the Children’s Ombudsman, and the expert group also warned against using it as a prevention measure. We know that children and young people are very vulnerable. Many have lived without visits, the elderly are isolated and have been so soon a year, it has enormous consequences for businesses. Then it is provocative to see that there has been no control over the import centre and the borders. In the period from 24 December to 13 January, 68,000 people came to Norway by plane and boat, and it was estimated that 160 000 people arrived. We know that there has not been any control over this either in terms of testing, whether they have been in quarantine, or where some of these are. There's a reason to come up with an alert. The progress party has just got it, from people working on the borders. They say that the code is fine on paper, but at Gardermoen you experience chaos, no control, people who aren't being tested, and that anyone can define themselves as socially critical personnel, whether it's carpenters, driver or dental assistants, to give some examples. On Svinesund there is complete chaos, the same thing at Magnormoen, where we heard today the rapporteur was out and told them that infected people are going into Norway without getting hold of them, or you have to be a detective to get hold of them. The government's on its heels here. As early as August, the Progress Party proposed that this should be implemented. It was rejected by councillor Höie, it was rejected in Stortinget on December 3rd, while one suddenly before Christmas came to the conclusion that this was probably a good idea anyway. It is not very reliable that the government here necks after and introduces increasingly new and stricter measures on paper, while receiving feedback that it is not being followed up in practice. The majority today adopts a number of proposals that, in effect, give the government marshalles – I am pleased – to ensure both testing capacity, better control and mandatory quarantine hotels, to mention something. The party of progress would probably want even tougher instruments. We are promoting proposals to ensure the daily staffing of all border stations, mandatory corona testing when entering Norway, where foreign corona certificates are also rejected. All arriving Norwegian border stations are to be registered, and we also want to introduce temporary intensifications in the entry regulations. It's about putting up with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1136	A review tone in the posts of the government parties here in the Chamber yesterday and today is that Norway has achieved the best in the world both economically and in terms of the development of infection. It is too early to settle any final status, we are in many ways still in the middle of the handling process, the infection protection measures are strict and still to some extent very intrusive. Many, perhaps especially in the big cities like Oslo, have lived limited for a long time, it's hard to sit nine months in the home office without seeing colleagues. It's hard not to meet friends and family or make new acquaintances. It's hard for the kids who don't get to be as much at school as they would like, for the teachers to follow up students via Teams and for the students who sit on their own. That's how I could still have. People deserve a real thank you for contributing in this time – again and again. So is the fact that the economic crisis in the cold water of the pandemic hits us hard. For those who have now been on leave for a long time with less income than normal, or for those who have lost the job, it is, after all, a poor comfort that Norway has been doing the best in the world. Of course, the government also deserves a thank-you for the job that has been done in the last nine months, but when the opposition joins today, it is also because the government's policy is not sufficient. Earlier today, the representative of Gruvan considered that the measures need to be seen in the context of the relevant infection situation. Yes, we agree, and that is where the government has not followed up. Since March, the financial measures put on the table by the government have been too weak and too unsocial. This is why Stortinget has intervened, the opposition has had to make a majority for far more powerful and social measures in higher rates of daily pay, within the duration of leave, within student compensation schemes – just to mention something. Now that the government is satisfied with how Norway has met the economic crisis, it may be worth remembering how weak their original proposal was. So more people here are concerned with the long-term, and that's what's important to us in the opposition. Then it is important to remember, when you are concerned about the extension of the law on permitting, that going out on leave is not a coercion when society begins to open up again. I'm sure those who are licensed, those who have lost the job, will do nothing but get back to work. We have to make sure they can. SV would like us to have made far tougher demands on the companies that receive support from the state, that they are required not to be able to cancel people, that they cannot take dividends, and that we had provided predictability also for the recipients of redundancy payments. These are proposals that we are still promoting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1149	The finance minister said earlier today that dealing with a crisis is not a competition to spend as much money as possible. I hope, with respect to reporting, that it is not an attitude that the Minister of Finance takes with him when he reads the proposals that are today going to have a majority, because there is no competition to spend as much money as possible. There are clear proposals that aim to improve the situation for people and businesses, and that will in the first place also be able to bring us through the demanding time we are in, in the best possible way. So there is no competition to spend as much money as possible. It's a total record bomb and a tragic approach to the problem we're in. At the latest today we have heard from the workings at 55 pst. by their member companies in the service sector are at risk of bankruptcy. There are many businesses, but there are also many safe, good jobs when the pandemic is over. And when I used to sit and listen to the Prime Minister, and especially the line change, I got the impression that most of the proposals that are being promoted today have an excuse for their promotion. No, that's not the case. That is, let us say, no weak recommendation where we ask the government to assess. Of the 23 proposals that at least get a majority today, 22 are clear to the government. And it's not a mission that the majority of the Stortinge give to the government in a competition to spend as much money as possible. There are clear decisions that are being made in the Grand Duchy today and that are well founded on the situation in which it is located. That's the situation. It's because the government doesn't deliver suggestions and actions on time. This is because they are in deficit – they have not been able to follow up their infectious diseases prevention measures with financial measures to protect businesses and workers. Many of the proposals that we are making today, and which lie there, the Workers' Party has been asking very clearly for a long time, and what we hear is a government that finds it difficult to implement what is best for Norwegian business and for Norwegian workers. The message given today, through the majority proposals, is very clear. We assume that the government is solving them and that they're solving it quickly, because it's urgent. It is not that companies entrusted with regulatory oversight can wait forever — no, they must have answers now quickly. It is about safeguarding the situation of workers and businesses. Now the government has to react.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1158	I'm not going to talk about business compensation schemes. I'm going to talk about our future, those who are going to create the new business: children and young people. I am very pleased that the Prime Minister in the statement yesterday said that the government will give priority to children and young people when the infection situation makes it possible. It is good news that national action levels for secondary and secondary schools are now downgraded to a yellow level and that local and recreational activities for children and young people are no longer discouraged. It is important for all children, especially those who have additional needs or who have problems. I would like to remind you that we have 55,000 children in Norway who receive child protection measures. The government has set up a coordination group to follow up the offer of vulnerable children and young people under the pandemic. The work is managed by the Children’s and Youth Directorate. There are now ten reports from the coordination group. Since its inception, the group has had the premise that normal operation of the services for children and young people should be pursued on the basis of sound infective measures. There's this government following up now. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child obliges us to care for the best of the child, even if the situation is demanding. Both the State and the municipality must try to achieve the most harmonious solution between infectious diseases and the needs of the child. It's a balance. Open kindergartens and schools are a prerequisite for children and young people in need of assistance from various services to be caught and not least followed up. Health care professionals report an increase in school health from children and young people in the latest Children’s and Youth Directorate survey. They tell about very serious issues, such as self-injury and suicidal thoughts, difficult home conditions with increased squabbles, violence and drug abuse. When children and young people are too fully back in school, I expect the municipalities to be responsible for their responsibility and to ensure that no children experience that the door to health care at school is closed. The message from the Minister of Health was clear yesterday. We need national measures to avoid a new wave of infection. It puts pressure on healthcare and makes vaccination more demanding. So we have to hold on a little bit longer. The infectious measures we are continuing are precisely important to protect children, so that we do not have more closures and that a new wave of infection makes it even more demanding to be children and young people today. I think they have made a brilliant effort under this pandemic, and they therefore need support.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1182	I am proud that the opposition has managed to take responsibility and find together on proposals that will help stop import contamination. It's incredibly important to win the fight against the virus. Quarantine is the most important part of the solution, and there are also proposals for more means of testing. I am particularly pleased that we have a majority of strong reactions to employers who violate quarantine rules when they import labour. When employers are responsible when workers do not get the quarantine they need, it is also those who have to take the penalty. It is then right and fair that employers have to pay. We also propose more use of random samples and the use of fines to comply with the quarantine obligation. The fight against the virus is one of the most important jobs we have in the Health and Care Committee, but the pandemic has also led to a mental health crisis. Under this government we have lost 1,000 beds in mental health protection. We had problems before the pandemic hit Norway, now it's even worse. Everyone should see the mental health report. Seven out of ten say it has become worse than before. Several tell about more symptoms, more intoxication, suicidal thoughts and triggering trauma experience. Nine out of ten say they have been thrown out before they were finished. We need a mental health-crisis package. SV proposed it in the budget, with more than 800 million. kr, but did not get a majority. I hope that the other parties understand that we have a mental health crisis because of the pandemic and that they will change their point of view. Then we can finally get a strong mental health protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1195	The finance minister opened his speech by saying about the corona situation that we are now at the beginning of the end, but that we do not know how long it will be. That's what's the challenge. We don't know how long it takes to get into an almost normal situation. In its situation description yesterday, the Prime Minister was concerned about balancing measures, but also how difficult and demanding it is to take the right measures, because the development of infection rates is so unpredictable. We understand that. The situation has been very unforeseeable, and it is still partly so, because we don't know when we're back with a bigger activity in society and you can relax on the measures of infection. This is precisely why it is so important that there is a clear and clear link between measures to limit infection and compensatory measures. We cannot just have short measures that are switched on and off. There must be predictability and a balance in the measures that must immediately take and act as a compensation when taking new measures for the protection of human health, which are effectively shutting down sections of society and affecting a wide range of industries. There must be predictability for our companies and employees of the arrangements to help them through a temporary shutdown and the pandemic in which we stand. We cannot have the short measures, which we have experienced a bit too often, which means that we need to keep in and correct. Some caution is given: the financial measures must not be given too long, they must not be too extensive, but as we do not know when this will end, there is good reason to remember that if we look back at the year that has soon passed, there is nothing to suggest that the measures we have taken have been either too long-term or too extensive — rather the contrary. Many of the measures that the Progress Party is now behind and that are being adopted in the European Parliament today are already in place. What is the majority's wish is for them to be continued and further strengthened. The general compensation scheme, which Nybø State Council was so enthusiastic about, has been revived in Brønnøysund. That's good, and it has to work. At the same time, there is a need for additional measures, for the general compensation scheme does not all take equally well. We can't compensate 100 pst. But we also need a little bit of tailoring to help the industries that are directly affected by infectious diseases, which in the short term cannot get the activity up to the normal level. Then we have to contribute to social transformation in different ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1208	The pandemic has changed the everyday life and agenda worldwide. Scenarios that were illuminated at preparedness conferences, but which we never thought should be her in our modern age, suddenly became real. There have been steep learning and great challenges for all of us. Thanks to Prime Minister and Minister of Health for good presentations and for good craftsmanship over a demanding year. The government has shown good balance between the necessary and the consequences of the measures. The government has thus provided a crisis leadership that is up-to-date and based on professional knowledge that it respects. I wish an evening meeting could say the same thing. In some cases, it appears to be a game of action that the government is already working on. I want to use the article to remind all of us that the pandemic is global – that's what it says – and that while we're in crisis management, other countries run disaster management. At the beginning of the pandemic, a young African woman said they're of course afraid of the virus, but the hunger resulting from the shutdown is going to kill more than the pandemic. And she was right. The pandemic in poor countries is a disaster. Business is shutting down, it's manning down, people are standing without income and without safety nets, and while we're talking about when we're going to have a normal situation, the situation is getting worse for many years in many countries. Yesterday, the two largest newspapers in Malawi were embossed by hospitals, where football courts are rigged into reception centres. That's the situation. It is always difficult to predict the future, but the fact that industrialised countries will get on their feet much faster is no uncertain prediction. The pandemic is taking a lot of steps back. Those who lived in poverty before still do. At such times, as a rich country, we should want our efforts to be increased and not reduced, as the Progress Party has called for. The pandemic is global, and no one is safe until everyone is safe. It is remarkable here that the Central Party has emerged as the leading spokesman for national egoism on the vaccine front. That's at least the left-hand impression. Because it's as absurd as it's unwise, and I had expected more of the Center Party. But it's in crisis we get tested our mentality, and in a crisis the world needs more cooperation, not less. I am pleased that the government and our Minister for Development are clear on international responsibility: vaccination, research, aid and humanitarian aid. That's what's needed. In many developing countries, the picture will look quite different from that in our country, and the side effects and aftereffects of the pandemic we have to deal with for many years. I want that perspective to be included in what has preferably been a debate on national management.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1223	First of all, I need to say that what Marit Arnstad said about the Center party being alone in supporting municipal nutrition funds is wrong. SV is also behind that proposal. In the spring, it was possible to see that the government did not have everything to care for, but it did not go long from the time it came to the Stortinget, until the Stortinget realized that it was necessary to improve the arrangements proposed by the government, both to the companies, to those who lost work, and to the municipal sector – massive reinforcements from the Stortinget. It happens over and over again. I think I have to ask the government: is it such that they really believe that it is the measures to determine whether an enterprise is viable or not? That doesn't mean SV. We believe that at the moment we close down below – because now we have to be clear and have the systems in place – the measures for those companies must be in place. They are not, and therefore it is necessary that the majority of population now do so, because the measures are poorly taken. My good colleague Nicholas Wilkinson was up here and said that we also need a crisis package on mental health. Yes, we do, and we need a social crisis package. Those who were out of work before, who were on the AAP or on social assistance – are there any people who believe that the labour market they are going to enter in the future is easier for them? Do you think you'll manage with less resources? Do you think you can deal with short AAP periods? Do you think you can manage by not getting enough help in the health care system, where we also know that many people have now been pushed even further in the queue? No, I had expected the government to now also realize that when the crisis strikes as badly as it does now, it pushes those who are disadvantaged from before, even further behind in the queue. They're getting worse. Then old-fashioned right-wing politics, with carrots for the richest and whip for the poor, are no use. It is not that there are jobs that are ready now, not even to the most pronounced and freshest among us, who are educated, and who are now out of work or out of work. It's not like that. Then we have to extend the arrangements and help those who have difficulties. For this reason, SV promotes a number of proposals in this area: on housing support, on measures for those who are newly educated and going to work, on those who are on social assistance, for example. not be forced to sell their house if you have to ask for social assistance, and to strengthen your efforts towards those who are already struggling to get work, for example. to obtain a qualification which means that they have a chance of getting a job.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1238	We have set behind us a demanding 2020, and unfortunately the beginning of this year was quite similar. But at the same time, there is a certain difference – we see a light in the tunnel. Norway has been relatively successful over these months. We have few dead and relatively few infected compared to other countries. At the same time, we see that all the measures are burdensome on people and businesses. I have a great deal of understanding for that. Many enterprises have been severely affected by the closure, and this again has a major impact on workers, who are, in turn, family-parents and parents. Fortunately, however, we are in a good position in Norway. The government and Stortinget have managed to set up to contribute as much as possible. The government has followed the situation closely throughout this period and has contributed both to support schemes and at the same time ensured access to the vaccine. Vaccination is now well under way all over the country. A good job has also been done in municipalities to put in place good measures to detect infection. They also believe that they have sufficient control to be able to have more local measures. This is a difficult balance, but I understand that the government has chosen to implement national measures to a large extent, precisely because the consequences if the infection were to come out of control will be much, much worse. But this has to be closely followed in the future. We're still in the middle of the crisis, even if the light's ahead. The uncertainty is slightly lower now than when Norway closed down in March last year. But if we think back on what the outlook was for the summer of 2020, and what was the result, I think we have reason for optimism. There was a crisis mood especially in travel in May 2020, but parts of Norway’s travel life experienced an ‘all hour high’ of Norwegian tourists. Not least, the Nordics got their eyes up for vacationing in their own country. So the travel industry can probably prepare for many more Norwegians like its guests this summer as well. The situation is inconclusive and demanding for parts of the economy. But we have to include that things are also going well in parts of the business. Storing and government have constantly set up crisis packages to help people, businesses and businesses. I note that the opposition has made further proposals today. Some of these proposals have already been signalled by the government that it will return. But this shows that both the magnificence and the government are united to help people and businesses through this crisis. Yesterday we could also follow the opening of the application portal for Korona support at the Brønnøsund registers. It's done a fantastic job by project manager Are Trelvik and his team at the Brønnøsund Registers. In close cooperation with Altinn, they have recently set up an application portal that will quickly help companies that qualify for support have money in their accounts. [[President clubs]] When I left the office instead, 501 applications were processed, and 77 million were granted. kr i support – this in one day. [[The President Clubs Again]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1251	The President has recorded that there is an increasing need to go beyond speaking time. The President will warn that now it's being clubbed at 00:00, and then there's no point to talk about.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1256	Today I want to give praise and verbal praise to Prime Minister Erna Solberg and Minister of Health Bent Höie for the enormous effort they have made by standing in the pandemic for these ten months. Thanks also to the rest of the government and all those who have worked with support functions, who have enabled the government to provide qualified knowledge, action and advice to the Norwegian population. Yes, there are demanding measures in private, working and social life, but people have come to understand the seriousness and then set themselves up. Covid-19 has his own life; it blows up, ready for attack, unless the countermeasures are strong enough. Everyone knows someone who's frame, and in my life, the daughter and family have been in quarantine four times because of infection at school, and it was a little sucking the fourth time. And a good friend lost unfortunately mother say last spring. There is great confidence in the government as they work preventively and into the current situation. What we're waiting for now is full vaccination of the country's population. I heard representatives here in the Storting yesterday who thought it was late for the vaccination and wanted to speed it up. Yes, we all do, but there aren't enough vaccines yet, and we have to wait for our turn to be equal to the rest of the world's population. The most vulnerable and critical staff get first, and so it must be until we get more supplies of new vaccines. So SV, the Progress Party, the Center Party and the Workers' Party have created a plan with more than 20 relief measures, knowing that the government is making a proposition on 29 January about the same thing. This time, too, the Norwegian people will notice that the government is responsible, because there is a reduction in infection that governs the development of the various measures. What is the cost of the measures, and what effect do they have? This is important to be able to achieve the goal of a safe and healthy Norway. And it's important to know the costs when we dispose of money that would actually happen to future generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1267	Thank you to the Prime Minister and to the Minister of Health for their distribution yesterday. An important feature of good crisis management is common crisis and situational understanding. Both the distribution and the debate here today have contributed precisely to that. Until now, the opposition and the position have managed this pandemic and the consequences of it well together. When I hear the debate here today, I get the impression that the opposition's proposals are largely in good process and well-managed by the work the government has seen going on. That's a promise. Yesterday, we read in the VG that only Hungary has stricter interiorisations than Norway for the EU and EEA countries. Norway has both entry quarantine and mandatory testing at the border. Sweden has none of the parts. More stringent import-related rules have probably helped us to reduce the need for national measures and, as we know, national measures have been well followed up by both municipalities, educational institutions and enterprises. Yeah, the whole community's been following very, very well up, and they're taking credit for how they've handled the pandemic. The challenges we faced before the Corona situation, they're not gone, they're just reinforced. Many are outsourced or job-seeking. Most of these must have a job to go to. Our most important task is to ensure that the welfare community exists and that people get a job to do. It will then have to be easier both to start businesses and to invest in new jobs. Compared to most other countries, the threshold is very high for entering employment in Norway. More than 400,000 working-age Nordics are totally or partially out of the labour force and go on social security benefits. Being outside the workplace also means that one is outside of much of the social dimension of society. On 12 January, the Hordaland bench met with Nav, LO and NHO in the West. All these organisations were enthusiastic about the government confirming the extension of the permit rules until the summer of 2021, but they also expressed concern about good permitting rules. So both Nav, LO and NHO are concerned about good permeability rules. We know from research that is one too long away from work, it's actually harder to get into work. Then we have to accept a certain unemployment rate when people change jobs or go from study to work, but what we shouldn't accept is long-term unemployment, and there we have to put work in.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1284	The consensus between the opposition parties yesterday is brilliantly new and the best thing that has happened to the travel industry in 2021. Yes, the compensation system was good. It was quickly worked on, it was put in place in April, but the development work on the compensation scheme is under way, because nothing has changed in the new scheme that it was possible to apply for yesterday. In addition, the arrangements that society needs are too late. In the meetings I had with the travel industry in August, it was very clear that they knew that after the public holiday was over, they did not have customers. Then we stood in August. And the compensation system was stopped in August – if anyone remembers it. Yesterday it was possible to apply for the autumn for a hard tried travel nutrition. For the serving industry, it has been virtually impossible to make money in the autumn. It's a business where you can't clear on equity for so many months before it's gone. They received recommendations from the government to obtain loans. Well, the industry often has little they can take as collateral to get a loan. The compensation scheme was not perfect in April, and the scheme that was opened yesterday is not perfect either. The government has shown that many fall outside this scheme. There are entrepreneurs, for example, they had no turnover to compare with from 2019, and there were many good, viable businesses among them. All those who were so unfortunate and had no employees in January/February last year fell outside. Many seasonal holdings fell outside, e.g. the destinations companies. Therefore, it is incredibly important that the Storting now obliges the government to find a solution for a valve arrangement, so that viable companies can have the opportunity to search and be here for the pandemic. It is incredibly good that there will be more means of conversion. I wish we could start calling it developmental, because it won't be right to say to the entire tourism and food industry: find something else to do, turn you into something new. No, evolve until we can all meet again. Now we're ensuring predictability for those who are on the spot. The extension of the permit regime from October to March was too late. The expansion now, from March to summer, came a little faster. Now we make sure that people know that they can be outlawed. Because it's not so much better to be cancelled, and that's to a large extent the option. The Nordics most of them have had a good economy. We heard the news this morning that there is a record in share fund sharing, there is a record in bank deposits for the Nordics in 2020. The perms don't have it like that. I am incredibly happy that we have at least agreed now to say that they should have 80 pst. of the first $300,000 they make.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1301	Throughout the crisis, we have been clear that the government and government parties in the Grand Duchy are helping us to do what is needed to make Norway safe through the crisis. In the 2020 budget and throughout that year, 130 billion were spent. kr for corona-related measures. So far in 2021 we're going to spend 40 billion. kr. We have already put in place very important and strong mechanisms for business compensation and good permitting arrangements. Both parts have already been notified of an extension. Many of the proposals that have been put forward in the Chamber today are really about the extension of schemes that are already in place, but it is about adjusting them with regard to time. Our parliamentary leader and our state councils have explained why it can be smart to look at the situation and have arrangements adapted to the reality we are in in terms of infection. So far, our country has been able to cope well with the pandemic if we compare ourselves to other European countries, both in terms of limiting the spread of infection and in terms of the economy. We have a large and well-filled toolbox – there is no doubt about it – and we have been willing to spend the money that is needed, but it is about using the right tools at the right time. Managing the crisis is not a competition to spend as much money as possible in the shortest possible time. It's about being accurate and it has to be reversible and differentiated, so we always do what is needed to secure businesses and jobs. As I have said, several of the opposition's proposals have already been notified by the government, while others are about actions six months ahead. We hope and believe that the infection situation is then at a level that allows us to focus on activities, to keep the wheels running and to get more people working. I would like to close by saying that the government has already announced that there will be a new proposition – a new crisis package – during January. On 29 January, the date is set. A great deal of what has been mentioned in the proposals that the opposition has made will be addressed. I look forward to constructive and good treatment and dialogue with the parties at Stortinget when that matter comes up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1314	Now it's been ten months since Norway shut down. How this has affected us is completely dependent on where we are in life. It's about what kind of work we have, and it's about whether we live with someone or alone. For someone who lives alone and is a lot at home, this period can be much more marked by isolation and loneliness than for us who have a large family around us and jobs that make us a little out in society in everyday life. And how the pandemic affects us is not least about whether we have people around us who are old, sick or at risk. For me, who is still quite young, and who is healthy and has a stable economy, it has been a small victim to comply with the infectious diseases rules and the various measures put in place. For children and young people who have lost arenas such as school, training and other activities, the victim has been greater. As a mother of four children in high school, I'm glad you're stretching far to keep the schools open. I am pleased that training and leisure activities could be resumed from yesterday. But it is not just children and young people who have experienced great intervention in their everyday lives. Another group that has sacrificed a lot are the old and seriously ill and their relatives. ‘The next summer is not when you are young’, said Bent Höie in a good speech to the youth last summer. That's what he meant, of course, in a transferred sense, because the next summer is coming. And we all hope that it's just this summer that is the light at the end of this long corona tunnel we've been running through for so long. But for part of our oldest, it's quite literally that the next summer doesn't exist. Many live under this pandemic for the last few months. Several of them have lost the opportunity to be with their closest in the last few weeks and months of their lives. Sadly, there are more examples of relatives not being present on the deathbed of their loved ones. In some families you have been told that you have to choose which of the children may be present, while other families have not been brought together at the end at all. The pandemic is an exceptional condition. We're going to get through this, but still this pandemic is so long that we have to maintain some normality along the way as well. We have to make sure people get a worthy death even under the pandemic. We have to make sure that people spend time with those they are happy about, at the end of life. It's important for those who don't have a next summer to enjoy themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1328	First of all, I would like to thank you for the work and the work that has been done, and for the actions that we have been discussing in the main. It is our strength in a social crisis like this that we trust each other, that we trust the professional authorities, and that we are able to cooperate politically. The management of the coronary apathy is a balance between subject and policy. The Anti-Infection Protection Act provides that measures are to be based on medical evaluation. We have to respect the professional judgements, and it's been trying to have the Center Party for a long time. We support the government and the authorities in that it is the quarantine requirement that must be the main measure to prevent imports from being infected. Anyone who comes to Norway must now be tested; we also support that. Tests can be falsely negative, and therefore quarantined is decisive anyway. We argued that the government is now doing what they can to follow up both the testing obligation and, in particular, the quarantine obligation. The centre party is critical of the government's management of quarantine for foreign workers, as the Evening Post revealed before Christmas. This has now been taken up by the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee and raised questions to the Council of State. Both the Directorate of Health and the Institute of Public Health warn against this change and that it could lead to an increase in import infection. We can't quite understand that this was done for medical reasons, and we're afraid that this might have contributed to increased import infection. The centre party is today with the other opposition parties to the proposal on anti-import measures. I think it is good that the government agrees with the proposal, and that this is in line with what the government itself is working on or planning for. It shows that there is a cross-political consensus on the necessary measures here. In the distribution, the Center Party and I lack the focus on the vulnerable groups under the pandemic, such as rubrics, which I was in the line shift, elderly people who have experienced visitor restrictions, mental retardation who have experienced isolation in their own homes, and canceled treatments and investigations otherwise. I want to know more clearly what the consequences are, and what to do to prevent something similar from happening again. The same applies to the local authorities, to whom I was also involved in the line change. It is unlikely that government and state councils will take this into account and take action in both the short and long term to strengthen local authorities. To the Christian People's Party of Tuscany, which owes it to the Center Party for National Vaccination: it's the Center Party, and not the Christian People's Party, which supports today's SV proposal to ensure more solidarity in the national and international distribution of vaccines.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1351	That's the first debate we have in a new big session, and it's a suitable place to start, all the time we're in the middle of a pandemic. It's sometimes a little frustrating that you have to repeat yourself, but the embassy from the government and from the government parties has been clear, and I'd like to repeat that. We're going to do what we need to do to get Norway through this crisis. Unlike many of the countries around us, Norway has been able to control the spread of infection, and we have been able to show that we can also deal with the economic situation resulting from the spread of infection and the measures taken to prevent infection. It's about two things. It's about having to put first what's first in this crisis: this is a health crisis, and then it's important that you get up the treatment capacity, so one has a security for it, that the infectious measures are adapted to the situation in which one actually stands, and that we have a vaccine strategy where Norway, by cooperating with the countries around us, has been able to secure the vaccine to ourselves, but also helps them to be distributed fairly around us. When we first see the health crisis, we can start discussing the financial measures and how they will play together. Over the year we're behind, we've developed a pretty good toolbox of actions that we can do to secure the jobs and secure the companies through the situation we're in. The majority of the population have agreed to an expansive state budget that shows a way out of the crisis, where we're going to create more and include more. When I told myself about this post, I thought maybe I should try to make some figures, maybe try to make a statement about how the developments in Norway are compared to other countries. An indicator of this may be the large number of developments in GDP. Norway has the second best numbers, or the second worst numbers, in the last year. But not only that: sees one e.g. on the investigation carried out by the Norwegian Chamber of Commerce, where they have asked 2,000 companies across the country, of different sizes, how they look at the outlook for the coming year, the majority respond that they believe that the bottom has been reached, they look optimistic on 2021. Eight out of ten companies believe this year is going to be better than 2020. When one saw the same survey in May, nine out of ten companies replied that the fear of bankruptcy if the coronary ant lasted for more than six months. Now it's more than six months since that investigation was made, and the answer is that it's 7 pst. of the companies that are worried that they will not be able to cope. What should be the focus of these debates is the groups that we know are most vulnerable and deferred, those who stay long outside of work, those who are vulnerable and who postpone children and young people, and those who have the lowest connection to the world of work. There's no answer if we can't keep the direction of creating more and including more.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1366	Today, the government goes on a series of smacks when the Labour Party and the majority on the Stortinget secure the majority of a number of proposals with enhanced content to meet the corona crisis affecting people and businesses around the country. It's really quite incomprehensible that we have a government that doesn't understand or see the context, that we have a government that has had power for over seven years, but still can't take the challenges that ordinary peoples and businesses face in this crisis seriously. I hear, among other things: that the representative of the Left, Terje Breivik, calls for professional investigations and believes that these proposals we are promoting today are not well enough investigated. These are new rates from the Left and the Government. In fact, investigations were not so important when the government forced the merger of a number of states, as an example. But now that it's about helping ordinary people and businesses through a crisis, it's not urgent for the government and the Left. The fact that the government itself does not propose to extend the leave arrangements, extend the increased rate of daily allowances, suspend the waiting time of three days to receive daily allowances, extend the period of receipt of daily allowances, or strengthen the possibilities of intra-corporate training, clearly shows that they do not understand seriously for ordinary people. They don't understand what it's like to lose their income completely after part. In fact, it seems that they think losing their income, losing their job, really not doing so much, because according to the Prime Minister, those who lose their job can just go out and get a new one. Well, it's actually not as easy as the prime minister and the right-wing government later to believe. In Eastfold, where government policies have not contributed to any particularly active industrial development, and how many are outsourced — or even worse, they have been abandoned — it is not just getting a new job. The reality is not as Prime Minister Erna Solberg describes it. Getting a new job in the middle of a crisis is simply not possible for many. That is why we need to have a social distribution of crisis packages, and that is why the Labour Party is taking the lead and taking responsibility for promoting good solutions for ordinary people where the government is failing again. The proposals we are promoting today are good for the country, they are good for Eastfold's inhabitants and Eastfold's businesses. Then we just notice that the right-hand government once again failed to do its job, that they once again chose to ignore the challenges of ordinary people in a very demanding time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1379	The Workers' Party has been working since the Coronapandemy broke out, working for the students to be cared for, financially and in other ways. We've had the aim of preventing the students from being forced to interrupt the studies because of economics. It will affect social disparity and create greater inequality in society. The Korona crisis has put students in an economically uncertain situation. They don't have full-year student support. They are vulnerable in the labour market, and many have lost both part-time and summer jobs. Two out of five students work financially, showed the NRK on 5 January. The Labour Party contributed to the first student billion. We made sure that the government's support scheme was converted from a clean loan to a shared grant and loan scheme. In the revised national budget in June, we asked the government to continue the crisis support, but the government said no. The state council referred the students to social assistance. In August we asked the State Council how much of the student billion had been paid, and then less than half – 400 million. kr – benefit the students. The Council of State then meant and now believes that this under-consumption means that the students did not need any help. The Labour Party sees that the scheme did not hit the target audience. In an uncertain time, students with poor finances will refuse to raise even more in loans. We called for a crisis arrangement for students when the government presented a new crisis package in the autumn, and in the state budget for 2021, the Workers' Party proposed a crisis arrangement for students, but we were voted down. Not until December 12th, the Council of State turned around and said the department is working on a solution for students who need it. On 5 January we asked for the emergency package in a written question, and it has not yet arrived on the table. Since June, the Council of State has said that he is following the situation closely. The timeline I've drawn now shows how the government has trained the crisis support and shown little understanding of the students' financial situation. How else is it possible to keep the students waiting in uncertainty for more than half a year, when it is repeatedly documented that the students carry an unreasonable heavy should as a result of the pandemic? This applies to students both in Norway and abroad. The government has subdued. They did not take the responsibility they should have taken. That is why the Workers' Party has joined forces with the rest of the opposition to secure a new student billion. This assistance must come quickly and must be provided in a way that strikes – contrary to the government regime of March last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1394	The infection of imports is the main reason why our country is now confined. The import infection has been a problem quite from the fact that aircraft from Italy landed in Norway without control, until we got a new spread of infection after the summer, when it was opened for south-tours, until lobbyists from the NHO were exempted from common entry rules in order to bring in labour from red countries. The infection of imports has contributed to the loss of schooling, to the unemployment of workers, and to the bankruptcy of businesses in months ahead of us. That is why it is our joint responsibility at Stortinget to ensure that we now rebuild our jobs and our economy, when we gradually get control of the infection through vaccination. Then I am surprised that the parliamentary leader from the Right is now pointing a moral index to the necessary investments and the necessary use of money further in the coming year. This is not the time to look at our own index fingers in the staging room. This is the time to look at those who have two empty hands as businessmen, whether they are restaurant owners or workers in the travel industry, who run with very small margins as usual. Among the most expensive choices made in Norwegian society in modern times are the poor choices that have been made in relation to imports. That's why we have to make sure that we take responsibility for rebuilding and investing the necessary resources to give people work and faith in the future, both during this year and not least in the years to come, so long-term unemployment does not get stuck. When the government budget was presented, the Eika Group’s chief economist pointed out that the government’s proposal was so weak and moderate that it would lead to long-term unemployment, unless we make forward-looking and offensive investments to provide people with work. The same is true in order to save the many companies that are now struggling, because if we don't take action now, a bankruptcy wave could lead to large capital and large international chains taking over what is really a viable and diverse business life in food, restaurant and travel. So that's why, now is the time to see those that have two empty hands.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1409	The most important thing for the Right is to give security to people, help those who need help, and make sure that as much as possible have a job to do when the crisis is over. We are still in the midst of the crisis, and many are hit hard. In particular, travel life, restaurants and transportation and very many others are becoming very tired, especially those who provide the close services to those who need it the most, our kids and those who need care and care. The government is and has been very clear that we should have financial measures as long as there is a coronary crisis and that the measures must be adapted to the infective situation. I understand the impatience of the opposition, and I also think that several of their proposals can be good, but my time in the local government has taught me that ‘proposals over the table’, which are not sufficiently explored, often become more difficult to implement than you had imagined, and that they may also work against their purpose. And I don't think it's very different in this room. I therefore hope that the opposition will consider the representative of Greece’s proposal to submit some of the proposals, so that they can be dealt with together with the proposition presented on 29 January. I know it's a challenging time for many now. At the same time, I believe that, as a big community, we will be able to reverse the infection, and that there will be an upswing in the course of 2021. Because, as I said, the most important thing is that we provide people with security that the infectious measures that are being introduced prevent infection, and that as few as possible die, while doing everything we can to ensure that as much as possible a job can be done when the crisis is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1422	For a number of years, there has been pressure to put in place more stringent measures to prevent imports from being infected. Among them is the Workers' Party. In an ongoing fight against the virus, we can't leave the front door wide open. We must have control of those who come, make sure that people are tested, that they are quarantined, and that rules are followed. Last fall the message came that the test station on Svinesund should be shut down. It was a decision that was in contrast to the announcement of a new wave of infection. Fortunately, there was a counter-message: the test station was to pass. From Monday, i.e. from yesterday, mandatory testing has been introduced at the border. At Svinesund it will take a few more days before you have enough capacity to test everyone. Establishing and scaling up a test station at such a large border crossing, with a capacity of 3500 tests per day, leads to enormous work for the municipality. There are now more Halden at Svinesund, but there is still a lot of logistics and more work to be done in a coronapressed municipality. People are to be hired and trained, and health managers and health professionals are not growing on trees. Halden Municipality has known about the last few days and weeks. At short notice, the municipality has to install a test centre on Svinesund with 160 years’ work for testing and 80 years’ work for practical organisation. Keeping the municipality is clear: they need help to solve the problem. They are clear that cooperation across levels and across departments needs to be improved. That reason to question whether this task should at all have been given to a municipality – such a great border crossing! They say themselves, shouldn't this have been a state responsibility? Work tasks drain the municipality for resources and personnel, and other tasks are involved. Most municipalities are now under pressure. For Halden municipality, this comes in addition to the daily crisis management. Other tasks have to give way. I expect that when you have to settle the accounts and Halden Municipality might not be able to apply for grant funds and get hung over in other areas, they will not be punished by the state. Relieving a huge testing centre in a trap without time to change is demanding. It is the responsibility of the government, and the government has to do what they can to assist the Halden in this task. Something else is running away from responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1437	The sirens and the blue lights of the crisis are long and long. There has been a message to the government, to the opposition from the business community, from the permissives. In Troms and Finnmark, youth unemployment is now highest in the country, and the industries we depend on are particularly hit, not least in the city I live in, Tromsø, which is a marked tourist city with a future ahead. That is why I am very pleased that the Storting is now taking responsibility, when the government fails to do so. Yes, that's what you've done, because the messages have been many, they've been clear, and they've come since March. And now it's March 2021. One has not been willing to change the compensation scheme to adapt the business that we actually have. That is why criticism has been given. By December we tried to make suggestions. What you're most afraid of is perhaps the flight of skills, the loss of the wise heads, the loss of the young people from industries that have the future ahead of them. On Saturday I was at a very nice café in Tromsø and met a married couple. They have been saving for seven years to create this amazing place – for seven years – and in November 2019 they started. Now it's like they don't get a penny in compensation, because the arrangement doesn't hit them. They have a child sleeping in the warehouse. Each of them work 300 hours a month. They don't charge a single penny. We can't have it like that. But this is the result of what you didn't want to listen to. Paal Mangerud here in Oslo tells us that with today's compensation scheme, he might have covered 11 pst. of the fixed costs. That's not good enough. That was what Iselin Nybø, Minister of Industry, said yesterday was good enough. So you have to talk with a concerned voice that the Storting is now taking responsibility, but it's good for Norway that the Storing is taking responsibility, it's good for people that the Storing is taking responsibility when the government fails to that degree. I don't find myself in the arrogance that is outlawed to the Storting when you give a lecture on what a global pandemic is. There's no one in this room who doesn't know that a pandemic is global, or that it's not made by the government. But the measures on infection protection and compensation are politically controlled, and when they don't hit, it's government's job to make them better. Now Stortinget does the job. For the future, I hope the government learns to listen, otherwise we will do it again.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1450	The President notes that the use of the word ‘arrogance’ has previously been cited as inappropriate parliamentary language.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1455	Workers and businesses throughout Norway have been severely affected by the pandemic, and it has been particularly important to set up targeted and powerful measures, not least to contribute to predictability and a little more security for those severely affected by the pandemic. They live with great uncertainty every day – because if they have a job to go to tomorrow, because if their business is going to go bankrupt, because if their life's work is going to be ruined, because if they're going to be in big personal debt. As elected representatives, we can at least try to contribute to something more predictability and security through the crisis. That is why we have over time been concerned that there must be more long-term security for those affected, both workers, businesses, self-employed and freelancers. That is why the majority in the European Parliament today is an important decision. I expect the government to follow closely all decisions that are taken. Some of them are more demanding than others, but it's not a resolution that drives the main hall. There are decisions by the national assembly of the country, which the government has a responsibility to follow up. Then it is the responsibility that farmers have, which was a subject of succession with the Minister of Finance here instead. The Minister of Finance confirmed that farmers have a responsibility to contribute during the crisis, and it has expressed an overall increase previously. At the same time, one example of one of the country’s largest farm animals has not contributed sufficiently through the crisis to firms in crisis, as produced in the media. Some farm animals are of course hard hit themselves, and it is demanding how much you can contribute. It is also demanding exactly how it should be designed in relation to private farmyards. However, the fact that one has a pressure — and a clear expectation when contributing to the community’s funds — that farm animals also contribute to firms in crisis is incredibly important. In one area, at least the State has a special responsibility, and that is in those cases where the State itself is farmyards through state-owned companies. For example, many restaurants and catering facilities that have Bane NOR Eiendom as farms experience that Bane NOR Eiendom is perhaps more difficult to deal with than some private farm animals in order to waive the requirement for minimum rent and reduction in rent – which costs. For this reason, it would have been important for the Storting to state that the country to which farmers are also to contribute, through the proposal that, among other things, The center party is part of today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1465	Our country is in a very serious situation. Very many experience difficult times, from the youngest to the oldest. It is difficult for our businesses – yes, the situation is so serious that the government is investigating the imposition of a port ban. Consider that we are discussing in Norway whether it may be necessary to impose a port ban. Let's hope that's never going to happen. Serious times require responsible politicians. There is great impatience in the Stortinget, and it is most noticeable that the majority of the population, i.e. the opposition parties in the Stortinget, must press the government into action on a case-by-case basis. Had there been other parliamentary issues, this would not have happened, and what is now happening in Stortinget had been mentioned with major headlines in the press – i.e. the opposition parties are bringing together over 20 very important proposals, measures that the government does not want to introduce, but which the majority are now pushing them to introduce. The government is being pushed from shoe to shoe, and it looks like it's all right. I heard the Minister of Finance in Political Quarter today. I have heard the Prime Minister and the Councils of State in the debate here today – yes, it is quite fine that the Stortinge adopts this, it may seem. It's even turning open doors, we hear. If it is to open doors, why has the government not implemented what the Storting is now pushing them to implement? The Prime Minister even intervenes in the consideration of the proposals by the Storting. I have heard from the Prime Minister that some of the proposals should be sent to committee. No, they do not have to be sent to committee, the Stortinge adopts the proposals today, and then the government will implement and implement what the Storinge decides. That's how it works. Finally, I have to say that the situation in aviation is very, very serious. A lot of employees are on leave, a lot of employees are retired. In Rome, where I live, there are very many employees in aviation who have been licensed, or they have previously been employed and have now lost their job. As far as the Workers' Party is concerned, it has always been to make SAS, Norwegian and Onyøe manage through the difficult times our country is now in. That is why we need to have a compensation scheme in place for the airlines as well. Air carriers have not been subject to the other compensation schemes to which the industry has been subject. Now we have to set up a scheme for the airlines as well. The government has not yet submitted such a scheme. When the government doesn't take responsibility, the Storting will take responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1476	It is now more than ten months since Norway was hit by the coronary apathy, and for parts of the business, crisis management has become a part of everyday life. Unfortunately, at an early stage, the crisis packages were able not to catch up with all those who are struggling, but through good dialogue with professional organisations and individual enterprises, the broad schemes have been adapted to make better progress. It is a fact that the number of bankruptcies in 2020 was lower than in a normal year, and as my party colleague Tore Storehaug pointed out earlier today, a study is being presented today on the website of NRK Vestland. The Norwegian Chamber of Commerce has carried out an investigation showing that 93 pst. of the companies asked today have no immediate fear of going bankrupt, and that eight out of ten companies look positive in the year 2021, with a cautious optimism that the year will be better than 2020. We believe that an important reason for this, in addition to mass vaccination, is that the government has now ensured a robust solution managed by the Brønnøsund Registers, which allows the compensation mechanism to be extended if necessary without further delay. We will also pay tribute to the government that it was already decided on 6 January to extend the compensation scheme, which otherwise has retroactive effect from 1 September last year and from April. It was also correct and important to adapt the rules on permitting in order to extend, if necessary, the period of leave until 1 July with an increased daily allowance. The opposition batches try to represent this as if it happened after pressure from them. I can assure you that the Christian People's Party's industry has also worked actively against the government to ensure that the extension of these important arrangements will be put in place. This also applies to the other government parties, and we have experienced that the Minister of Industry has listened to our recordings. Yesterday the work started to pay compensation for the period from 1 September to 31 December last year. Now the companies have a guarantee from the government that the scheme will last until April, and the government has already announced that there may be a further extension if the situation so warrants. The Prime Minister announced yesterday that a new proposal will be made by the end of January, with new measures adapted to the infective situation and the measures to be taken by industry at all times. There is evidence that the government is biased, but that it is choosing a strategy in which the measures are continuously adapted to the situation. Yesterday, the Prime Minister was aware that the government will provide compensatory measures as long as infection protection restrictions restrict business, but that the objective must be to return to a situation where healthy businesses are left on their own and contribute to growth and value creation as soon as possible. It is an approach we support, because it is a flexible and responsible approach to the use of public funds. The alternative – to extend the arrangements so far in time that they can work counterproductively with a view to bringing workers back into normal work – will be opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1495	The size of the population, through the treatment of the measures related to the pandemic, has received a lot of sympathy and support from many parts of Norwegian society, and it has been largely linked to the fact that it has been possible to develop a good consensus here in Stortingen on many issues. However, it is quite clear that many of the government's proposals have become both more correct and better through the treatment of the Storting, and that is how I want it to be. What we see in today's debate and today's treatment is a continuation of the practice we've seen throughout this time – namely that the Stortinget takes on board, and that the Stortinget decides what needs to be determined in order for society to move forward. The government is in many ways managed a bit along the way through the treatment we see here today; no one can deny it. But – and that's what I'm doing in this post – the bulk of the population ignores a very important challenge and what I would call a danger. It is that the majority of the population are not willing to take part in the adoption of the proposals proposed, but which are obviously, for various reasons, do not have a majority in dealing with those most affected by the pandemic. We discussed this just before Christmas, and I'll take it up again. There's a very big danger that the Storting doesn't see what development we can get after the pandemic unless the inequality challenge is being addressed right now. There are a large number of proposals that do not get a majority today, which could seal these holes quite effectively. But that's not the majority for that. I just mention what's very conspicuous, and as we see very clearly, and that's this holiday money question. Why on earth will not our Prime Minister, our Minister of Finance and the bulk of the population give these people their holiday money? What kind of attitude is hiding behind this? So we're spending billions on actions, but we're not going to go where it's necessary to go, where international research and national research are warning policy of what the inequality challenge will mean when the pandemic is over. We're going past that today, too. I see that my colleague, Mr Groevan, the parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party, says that it is strange that the Progress Party is linked to the left. He should have been there himself. It would have been a good thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1510	I noticed a wording used by the party's parliamentary leader in his opening speech in today's debate. She said almost as an excuse that ‘it must be allowed for the Storting to have views’. There has never been any doubt that the Storting should have the opportunity to express itself, but what is now happening here is something completely different, and I think there is a need to say something in principle about the relationship between magnification and government. Of course, even in the midst of a health crisis, the Stortinget may feel that government policy is inadequate. On the other hand, it is necessary to react to whether a series of request decisions to this extent should be carried out without an investigation, without any necessary consideration of the relationship between action and effect and, therefore, without the Storting itself subjecting the measures to normal proceedings in this House, that is to say by comitology. I do not interpret this as an attempt by the opposition in a reasonable way to strengthen and make visible the power that a parliamentary majority gives it, rather I interpret it as a lack of respect for the Storting's own way of working. «Gallery management» is often used in such a way, i.e. an attempt to acquire an executive power without the necessary administrative quality check and knowledge base located in departments and directorates. I can understand the growing need of the opposition to stand out in the political picture. For almost a year, we have witnessed a government that has managed the pandemic in a way that has led Norway to the top on the rankings of successful pandemic measures – but primarily with the entire population on track. We have to go way back in time to experience a government with greater confidence in the population after dealing with an acute crisis over such a long time. The government comes to Stortinget with new measures on 29 January. I look forward to the debate that is linked to these measures, and I am pretty sure that the students will be fully justified in the new measures. But with regard to the students and their generation, shouldn't the Storting also be aware that it is precisely this part of the population who is going to have to pay the bill for an uncontrolled use of money in 2021? The answer to that can be, as the representative Arnstad so aptly put it: ‘It’s not just this.’ But much can make it easier if the Storting follows its normal way of working instead of jumping on impulsive recordings, albeit never so creative. In such situations there is reason to miss Kåre Willoch's wise words in a chronicle from July 2003 in recognition of the parliamentary situation under Bondevik II, where he just pointed out enhanced short-termity and disproportionate difficulties in preventing expenditure from rising too strongly. In conclusion, the challenge of the big business must always be, with a view to correcting the government’s course, to get an overview of the links between policy action and its impact. To that end, we have the committees and the committee reading.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1525	Samuel Butler said, "Vaccination is the medical sacrament that corresponds to baptism." In today's debate, the vaccine appears as the light in the tunnel, but as is known, the light in the tunnel may as well be opposing trains. Vaccine optimism in the hall is joyous, but it must be stressed that it is a demanding exercise we are about to undergo. In my time as a production pharmacist, the head kept reading to me Murphy's law: things will go wrong regardless of the situation if given the opportunity. That's a little bit of the picture you're living with when you're working on production. Now there's a whole world waiting for the next batch of vaccines, and now we hear in this room that people will have exact times when vaccinations are going to be carried out, and when we're done being vaccinated. I can't. Here we depend on the success of skilled professionals around the world, and we just hope that they succeed well. When vaccination plans and guarantees are requested, both the Council of State and the Prime Minister have referred to plans that have been approved, the municipalities have planned, they work with all kinds of measures: drive-in vaccination, sports halls and everything else. I hope that the government will also use other professional groups and get in place that as many health professionals as possible can contribute to this. What is certain is that vaccines that come are to be used. But this isn't a sprint, this is a long race. The company Olaussens Metall in Haugesund has the following slogans: «We perform miracles immediately! "The impossible takes a little longer!" It could be a slogan that could fit all those who have now worked to obtain this vaccine. I didn't think anything about a vaccine coming in in March, and I'm still amazed that they got it done. The fact that it also works and appears to be so safe is nothing but a miracle. Then we have other things than vaccination on the agenda today. A number of proposals have been made to strengthen protection against import contamination. I don't think the government parties are going to vote for it, for the simple reason that these are things that are already going to happen. Much of that has already been done. The importance of quarantine and quarantine hotels is important, but there are measures already implemented. There is no point in voting for things that have already been implemented. I look forward to continuing good dialogue and good political debate on this. I certainly believe that we have a trusting relationship in the health and care committee when such issues are discussed, and that discussion must continue. When we do not vote in favour of the proposals today, it is not because we reject them, it is because they have already been implemented. The most important thing is a good quarantine code, where I fully agree with the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1540	The representative of Stensland referred to Murphy's law, and then I cannot resist the temptation to tell how it arose. It arose in a research project called ‘the effect on the human body of rapid braking’, in which a number of researchers, led by Professor Murphy in California, tested the effect on the human body of entering walls at high speed. That is what should be avoided, was the conclusion of that research project. That might also be the conclusion of part of the speed that is here today, I would say. We have been criticised in the past — in fact by the National Audit Office, with strong opposition support — for the lack of a sufficient impact assessment of some measures. We have been criticized in the past for not following the investigation instructions in some contexts and doing things too quickly. Today, it doesn't matter. Today the pace is high. That is good, but the pace that is high today and that is presented as being because action is to be implemented is not because action needs to be implemented quickly – that is because you do not have time to wait for 10 days until we get the actual discussion around this. Several of the measures presented today are announced to be dealt with in that proposition. It's not the pace to get this handled now because you're going to get it started earlier, but you're going to get it done in a way that makes it clear that you've taken the initiative here and not somewhere else. That's my experience of it. It may be a little fast, because there is at least reason to question some of the measures proposed here — at least how they are to be implemented. For example, the scheme proposed on the air side is: That's interesting. I think we're all seeing that we're in a process where we're going towards some solution to support the aviation industry, but it's talking here as if there's only three airlines in Norway. That's not right. There are 24 companies with a Norwegian permit to fly. The 24 companies will all be placed in such a position if it is to be put in place. It does not seem that it has been thought through in connection with this scheme. It leaves a number of unanswered questions. The first is, how does a scheme that does not benefit the creditors? The companies depend entirely on paying their bills to fly. If one does not pay for fuel, one cannot fly. If you don't pay the rent for your planes, someone will never be able to fly. If one cannot pay his loans, one will not be able to fly sooner or later. So an arrangement must somehow benefit the creditors. What maybe with a little bit of tongue incheek, as you say, is funny, is that some of those that will be hit by this, are companies that, among other things, are operates on private aircraft rental. It's fascinating to see the Workers' Party would save them. But that's important enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1555	I actually drew myself because of an incursion related to the proposals. Proposal No. 70 is available twice – it is equivalent to proposal No. 67 – so we would like to draw proposal No. 70, so it's just going to be over once. I must also say that the previous article may require an answer. It has been said in this debate from many here in the Chamber that the proposals put on the table by the opposition today have not been examined and have not been examined. But with respect to reporting, it's limited how patient the opposition should be. We have not had a compensation scheme in Norway since September, despite very strict disease prevention measures. It is completely incomprehensible that there was no compensation mechanism in place in November, as the infection increased again – that the government has not spent the time preparing it and figuring it out. It's also incomprehensible that you can't create predictability for those who are outlawed. A week ago, there was a notice of the permit holders who have been on leave since March – 30,000 have been on leave since March – who thought they were going to lose their job now in March if the permit code was not extended. Finally, at the initiative of the government, after the opposition went through the media last week. Now we're going one step further to ensure that predictability. Nor is it that if you have been on leave since March 2020 and have the opportunity to return to work in June or May, if the situation permits, you prefer to lose money and sit at home even a little longer. People want to go back to work, and I think we should have respect for that, but I also think we should have respect for giving them predictability. Nor is it the case that this government has been the best friend of the investigation manual – to put it that way – in any case, even in a situation of coronary apathy, and I think we should allow ourselves to work a little quickly and cut some turns. The oil tax package, which we do not yet know the full consequences of, and which the government parties supported here, was the most widely done. This also applies to property tax legislation, which has been systematically proposed as one of the crisis measures of the government this spring. I would like to know how they think it would help secure people's jobs. You can go to other things, too, that don't have the urgency of the coronary apnea. The regional reform, to take it as an example: how was it determined when it was proposed to make the Viking as a large group? I would recommend that the representatives of the government parties be cautious when attacking the opposition to be able to act and put in place measures that businesses and trade unions have asked for for for many months.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1572	Our efforts in the pandemic are called hard work, but usually when we have hard work in the neighborhood or in the sports team, everyone takes an equivalent thank you. In this effort, billionaires are setting new records on the stock exchange, while low-paid workers in some specific sectors are carrying heavy burdens. Cultural life and volunteering are among the sectors most affected, and it took a long time for the government to understand how this sector was particularly affected. It took a long time for the different schemes to come into place, and it took even longer for applications to be answered and money to be paid. The framework for the sector remains unforeseeable and uncertain. Cultural life is a sector in which there is no permanent employment. It's freelancers who work from project to project, many with low pay. Some of them have simply been out of commission since March. In reality, they have a ban on employment – not because of a lack of demand, not because of a crisis in the economy, but because of the rules we have put in place to protect society as a whole. Then it is extremely important that we set up, otherwise we risk creating lasting damage, which will also last after the pandemic is over. Our main criticism of the schemes in 2020 was that they came too late and were too cleverly arranged – many outside. Now it repeats: the systems of cultural life, volunteering and sport are too late – the government is behind. VAT compensation, which would have been an unbureaucratic and easy way to help a lot of people in this sector, has been rejected by the government parties. The government asks people to cancel the event, but does not provide the necessary clarification as to who will take the bill, and whether a recommendation will qualify for emergency assistance or not. Renewal of the arrangements for the permitees only came into place after the opposition had assembled to force it through. People need predictability and security. Many people live by this sector. It's not just those who work directly with cultural life, it's also subcontractors of stage, sound and light, how powerful environments of competence can simply disappear if we can't carry them through the crisis. Now we're approaching a new season. May to September is flowering time for cultural life, but it is in these weeks and months to come that it is decided whether or not to implement. Are you going to pull the emergency brake, or are you going to take the chance to plan for a summer where we can get activity? Who's gonna take the risk with that? If we as a society don't go in and say that we're going to do that together, we're at risk of cultural life falling long after the pandemic is over. This is where the government has to take responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1589	The fact that the opposition has had to act now is not about waiting for ten days. It's about these arrangements being in place a long time ago. The government had the opportunity. It is about the fact that all experience suggests that the government comes with it is too weak – for the workers, for the businesses, for the municipalities, for society. Renewal of the permit scheme is about respect for ensuring that people have an income and that the enterprises that are shut down by infectious diseases measures have employees when they reopen. It is quite outrageous to hear that the government parties clearly believe that the companies are speculating in this, and that employees are speculating in it by being, as if to be permitted longer than necessary. No, people are looking for a job if they can get it. Holdings are not closed if they are not allowed. They've got the knife on their throats now. But it certainly doesn't understand the government, given all the holes that have been left in these arrangements of the government that it has proposed. Then I hear that many people point to research that if you're long unemployed, it's hard to get back to work. Yes, it is. It's in a normal situation -- now it's almost impossible. I am pleased that the Minister of Labour has come, because here there is a need for a massive commitment to the future, to those who are already disadvantaged, and to many of those who have fallen out of work now, because it is difficult. Research also shows massively that people without money are sicker and feel worse than others. What do we do with that? Should it still be the unsocial cuts that govern politics? So finally, the representative Grimstad was up here talking about respect and real-life denial. Yes, it is a real denial from the government and the position – of the needs of businesses, the social needs and the fact that the Stortinget has ensured that the arrangements are as good as they are, both for businesses, for those who are unemployed, for those who are out of work, for those who are out of work and for the municipalities. I need to ask the government parties again: do you really think that there are infectious measures that are going to bankrupt companies in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1600	The President recalls that the speech should be addressed by the President and not by the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1605	Today's clearly most eye-catching posts came from the right-hand party Left and the representative Grimstad. That post had a historical dimension over it. It's obvious that we see the world quite differently, and it has to be clear here that it's completely different how we work as elected representatives of the populace. For this reason, the representative Grimstad has not met, for example. Bright Vigdel, who runs a restaurant in Trysil and is in danger of going bankrupt, or Gry Vanja and Svein Otto Eriksen, who runs a tourism business in the same municipality, with horses. Building up a travel business with animals, whether it's dog riding or sledding, takes a lot of years. It takes almost half a generation to make all the animals grow up and make sure that one has both the infrastructure and the feed needed, and then one might have to get rid of what's the basis of the future of the company. All in all, the representative Grimstad claims that he misses Kåre Willoch. No, we don't miss Kåre Willoch at all. But there might have been a need for a Johan Sverdrup from the Left in this hall, who said, "All power in this room." Because what's happening in the Storing today is fundamentally positive for those we're going to represent, for people. It is democracy that now helps many entrepreneurs, workers and parents throughout the country to ensure that one at least gets a little more optimism for the months that are left of 2021. If we get into a situation where Bjarte, Svein Otto or Gry Vanja goes bankrupt, then who is going to take over this market? It is not the small and medium-sized enterprises, which the Left so beautifully claims that they are too on its websites. It is international capital and chains that are going to take over the supply of food, among other things. in Trysil. What happens to Trysil as a community? Much less of the value creation and money goes back to the community, just as urban areas around Oslo city will get less value creation back if it's the big multinational chains that take over all such jobs. It's therefore quite obvious that we need a new large number when we get these kind of claims served. In fact, the situation in our country now, when there is such a large proportion out of work, is reminiscent of some of the 1930s, with markedly increasing differences and social challenges, and not least many district jobs at risk. These will be part of the Workers' Party and build up from September 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1623	As Stortinget is familiar with, I've been with some years. The Minister of Finance is younger than me, but we have lived a lot of our political life together, in youth organisations and in politics. I say this because I will address myself directly to the Minister of Finance in the following I shall say. Throughout the political debates here in the house, we have had discussions about what we call the differences from our point of view, and which are very worrying. We see an extension of this in today's political debate, which has been marked by me and many others. What is remarkable, and on which I sit and feel, is that there is no one from the government parties, nor government representatives, the Minister of Finance or the Prime Minister, who goes up and explains: why can't we give people the holiday money they should get? What is the reason why they won't vote for this? I don't understand. My challenge to the Minister of Finance is: Can't he come up here and say why he doesn't, why he takes the chance to start such a difference in Norwegian policy that it obviously represents? I have repeatedly challenged government representatives in other debates on this, but they are sitting and looking down! They don't even come up here and defend themselves. Can they not at least do that, so we can get to know what is the argument for the vote they represent, and the social development they represent by voting against such things, which should really be part of the consensus, and which should have been taken up? The representative Grimstad came up with a characteristic. I'm going to add a couple of things. He says he misses Kåre Willoch. I do, too, in the sense that Kåre Willoch did not represent neoliberal economic policy. Kåre Willoch represented the value conservative economic policy, and at that time Left was a corrective. Now they have become a tailhang of liberal economic policy development. There is one side to it that I should not say that I am neither happy nor sorry for – I am not quite sure. But both the representative Grimstad has said today, and the representative Gruvan has said today, is an expression that the centre of Norwegian policy is about to disappear.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1632	First I have to regret that I said something unparliamentary instead. I still stand for what I said, but I realize I'm not going to say it up here. This government has been forced into a lot of things. When it comes to the permitting regime, which is now being chosen to criticise a majority of the Storting for providing a security for, perhaps for the first time, you have a long-term and a security in that system. But the government has not wanted to expand it all the time it has been necessary, whether it was this summer or it was in the harvest. Now we're left here, and fortunately, there's a majority doing the job now. As I said, Stortinget is now doing the job for Norway. We're doing the job that the government doesn't have the ability to do. We have listened – we have listened to people throughout Norway, both to those who are struggling on their businesses alone because all the others are on leave, and to those who are at home. There is nothing they want more than to get back to work, because no one wants to sit at home. Alone is not good for anyone. Everyone wants to contribute to society. It has been referred to as big business and that we are as fast as these proposals are made. None of the proposals should come as a surprise to the government. We've suggested these things many times. Take, for example: the valve system, which is essential for very many companies. It should have been figured out. So coming to the Storting now and saying that no, it can be difficult to implement that system, because we don't know how to do it -- yeah, what in all days have you done since May? Of course, one should have found out when one has chosen not to continue with this scheme. But it is unfortunately a symptom that you are so satisfied that you are not able to listen. You can talk as much as you want to, that you should agree in this room – sit around the table, as it is so nice called – but if you don't realize that other parties and others can also have good ideas that it's worth listening to, it becomes like my way or no way, and then we have to take responsibility. So it's very special when the representative Nilsen comes up here and starts talking about this being so fast, and compares it to the Riksrevision and the fisheries, for which the government has also received criticism. To the representative Nilsen: This is a global pandemic. It's global. It's not the opposition's fault that we have it, but it's the opposition's job to act when the government doesn't, and now we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1647	A crisis has many faces. This pandemic is not only a health crisis, it is also a social crisis, an economic crisis and a financial crisis. Finding a balance between different considerations and needs can be challenging, for example: may be conflicts of interest. This means that the political decision must balance the different needs of several stakeholders starting from the infection situation. Different information has come from different sources on how foreign workers are managed in Norway in terms of infection. I think that's very bad, because it's created unnecessary fear and anger in people. In the address paper at the beginning of January, there was a debater who claimed that hundreds of foreign workers from countries with a high infection had been coming to Norway for several months without testing and quarantine. This is directly wrong. And in the evening post 5 January Eivor Evenrud from Red had to dement a similar statement when she claimed to work from Poland and Lithuania release the quarantine. The government has taken the import centre very seriously. Workers travelling from red countries have had to go into quarantine when they arrived in Norway, and they have not been able to work until the quarantine is over. Now the test regimen is reinforced, and everyone has to test on the limit. The requirement for mandatory testing is in addition to those already established, requiring negative testing before entry, entry registration and quarantine. There have been difficult assessments and decisions in the government, but for the time being it may seem that very well and very much has been done. Norway has far fewer deaths and fewer hospitalisations than our neighbouring countries. Thanks to a safe handling from government teams, a fantastic effort by people, health professionals, teachers, shop clerks and others, this has been possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1658	It was the representative Martin Kolberg who made me draw, and I see that the Council of State has also signed up, so there is not only one Council of State, but two councillors who will respond to Martin Kolberg's challenge. The question has also been raised in previous debates, where answers have been given. Martin Kolberg has a strong and credible commitment to differences. It's an engagement I share. Throughout this crisis, me and the government have pointed out our concern that the crisis is going to be shattered. We are concerned about long-term unemployment and that those affected are often people with low education, low pay and weak social ties. That is the background for many of the powerful actions we have taken. The most important thing is that more people should be able to get back to work, because if you have a job, you also have a completely different form of security. That is the background to the strong commitment to the Education promise of 2020, so that those who go on a day-to-day basis, on leave or on leave have the opportunity to take up education and thereby strengthen their chances of returning to work. There is a background for strong responses for vulnerable children and young people and for those who have lost valuable teaching time. There is also a background for a series of proposals to facilitate better integration. In this crisis, it is important that we include more, and that we avoid more being pushed into permanent alienation. So the question of holiday pay for those who have been unemployed and then come back to work is a priority action, whether that is the most important measure when we are going to avoid increasing differences. There we disagree with Martin Kolberg. We believe that there are other proposals that are more important to prioritize in this crisis in order to get a permit back to work, including more and safer jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1667	Holiday pay, the old scheme: I see, at least from the review in the newspapers, that there are many who later believe that then they came as holiday pay comes too many workers, that is. before the holiday. That didn't do that money. They came mostly in January/February, that is, completely independent of when people took a vacation or if they didn't. That's the one. The second is that when the holiday money came in January/February of the old scheme, which was changed in 2015, it was such that they came regardless of whether they had been back to work or not, that is, in a way not targeted at those who had been unemployed. It didn't happen to them, it happened to many people who were simply back to work. The government — or another version of the government — did this by replacing it with a real holiday scheme for the long-term unemployed. Now, if you have been on leave or long-term leave for more than 52 weeks, you can take 4 weeks off without having all the requirements to apply for a job and stuff and get your daily allowance paid in the usual way when you have a vacation, along with other people in Norway who have a vacation, most often in the summer. It's an important conversion. The last point, which is also relevant in this context, when we are discussing this right now, is that now also a unanimous increase has been made to increase the daily allowance rate for all in practice. That is, there is a different situation than in 2015/2016. Now everyone has a higher daily allowance. Of course, you may disagree, as the representative Kolberg is, but the combination of it is good arguments that it is not now right to go back to the old scheme from 2015, but rather has the new holiday scheme for day-care recipients. So two other things pretty short. One is that in the many proposals the Stortinget deals with today – as the Stortinget of course has the full right to do – all the power in this room, etc. – at the same time, there may be some confusion. We had some laps when we talked well, but maybe a little too late, in ours. It's a little unlucky with ambiguities that can't be cleared up until a decision is taken, regardless of whether the opposition or a unanimous decision is taken. For example, if you are going to continue the day-to-day payment for those who, according to the Stortinget Code, have left the scheme on 1 November, it is not difficult to create a system where they can apply for the day-to-day allowance again. The government has proposed that. What's hard, than say almost impossible for Nav, is to find all these people and repay the money. They are now out of all registers and may have a wide range of life situations. Many are not in the country either. Now the Storting decides it itself, but an argument to at least ask for some information about the issues is that the kind of thing it might be useful for the bulk of the population to know before any decision is to be taken. Finally, it is only worth noting, as far as Kåre Willoch is concerned, that all Right Politicians are called neoliberals when they are active, and then they become conservative honoraries after they have finished their political work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1684	It is nice that so many people have become involved in my post. It is particularly nice that the representative Kolberg and I have one thing in common – that we appreciate Kåre Willoch very much. There could be cause for a greeting from here, because if there is one thing Kåre Willoch is concerned about, then the proper parliamentary work, the work of the committees, the work of the investigation department, for that matter, is to use the investigative apparatus of Stortinget. So the representative named Andersen the word «reality denial». I don't think I mentioned it, I've never said it from this pulpit, but I'll come back to it. But first of all to the representative Giske: he gives a sort of impression that Norwegian cultural life has been almost on the ground resting since March last year. Then I have to ask: what is the government's policy that has stopped artists from practicing their profession? What about the government's policy that has stopped musicians from performing and performing music? What about government policies that have stopped authors or other cultural workers from pursuing their profession? Yes, even the footballers at Rosenborg have been paid, well paid, during this Korona period. And so: those who criticize me for my post have one question to answer: how can it be, in this misdemeanour description, that the government then has so much confidence? It must seem like a cross of thought. I have one answer to that, and that is that it is good and powerful that has stood in the high seat of the government. It has appealed to the people. It's been tough. It's been tough for artists, it's been tough for cultural workers, it's been tough for everyone, and especially for the most vulnerable groups, but there's light in the tunnel. I haven't talked to Bjarte, or what they're called, but I've been talking to people in my own community. There we don't stick our finger in the ground, we stick our finger in the ocean when we ask them how they are. And that's tough, yeah well, but people have a lot of confidence that the government comes out of this in a very good way. This isn't realism on my part. It's a description of reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1697	The centre party has struggled over time to obtain a compensation scheme for hard hit aviation in Norway, which is so crucial to bind a long-term country like Norway together, and for all the jobs that are directly in the airlines, and all the ring-fences around it. Even I live in Rome and see the major consequences of the shutting down of Norway have had for the activity on the Gardermoen and in the area around. Getting a compensation scheme has been alarmingly necessary. Aviation was one of the industries that was hit fastest and has been hit hardest over time. As has been referred to here, it is quite right that on a number of occasions the Central Party has proposed that a compensation scheme should be put in place. At the same time, we have been concerned that one should make clear conditions and requirements. It seems that it should not be possible to do so in the case of aviation, and it is used as an excuse by the majority to do nothing. I would like to remind you that the majority in this room, both the opposition and the position, agreed that a wide-ranging business compensation scheme would be established within a few days of the pandemic. This applies to tens of thousands of companies with different corporate structures that are part of an international group and are linked to different countries, including countries with which Norway does not cooperate in tax agreements. Unfortunately, the majority have not been willing to make clear enough requirements relating to a compensation scheme, such as: The centre party has been set up. One has established such a compensation scheme, and it has been virtually impossible after all the months that have passed, to establish a compensation scheme for domestic aviation in Norway. This is primarily about three companies: Onyøe, SAS and Norwegian. There are some demanding challenges, but they're able to solve if there's a willingness to actually go into it. I am very pleased that a majority at Stortinget is now making a clear order for a compensation scheme to come. Not least for all those who have their daily work in aviation for a day, it is incredibly important. In conclusion, responsibility: what is responsible is that political decisions that have budgetary implications are to be taken in the Stortinget. That's what the opposition is now taking responsibility for – bringing power to Stortinget. What is not responsible, on the other hand, is that the government at the press conference after the press conference – yes, they come up with things we agree on as well, both the extension of the compensation scheme, the income insurance scheme and the permitting system – show that they do not have budget coverage in the budget they themselves have adopted. So those who show accountability here are just the opposition, which contributes to putting the framework for good political treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1710	When Minister of Finance Sanner says in Stortinget that the government is occupied with those who have little, that they are concerned that the differences should not increase, then the government must also answer why it is that those who earn less than 150 000 kroner a year will no longer receive a daily allowance. Why don't you agree to continue the system that's been going on for a long time now, that the limit has been at 0.75 G? It is among those who serve least, who are affected and who increase differences in Norway, so why not propose to extend that scheme? Those who have gone on redundancy payments, who have been completed, and who are now going out and looking for a job – why not propose to extend the scheme for them, because these are the furthest away from the labour market? So for holiday money: there are 230,000 people who are not going to get the income they should expect when the holiday comes. So the government's answer is that the old scheme was so difficult, for you got your money in January and not in July. Yes, if that's the problem, you get to sort this out, so the money will be paid in July. This cannot be what prevents you from paying your holiday money. And to say that people who come back to work will probably work on vacation – if a worker in the industry and it shuts down, the SFO and the kindergartens are closed in July, or if you're going to comply with the holiday law, it's a non-target answer. Finally, when the Minister of Labour says that we are making bureaucratic arrangements that cannot be implemented, and that those who lost their daily allowances before Christmas will continue to do so, I must remind the Minister of what is in Prop. 72 LS for 2020-2021, which we got on Friday. I quote: ‘The Government proposes to extend the right to a daily allowance for all beneficiaries who exercise the right to a daily allowance before 1 July. It is also proposed that day-payers who have exercised the right of day-to-day pay after 31 October 2020 be entitled to apply to re-open the day-to-day pay case from the date of implementation of the extensions.’;» It must be possible to find those people. They have opportunities to search. That is not the answer, I mean. Here is what it stands for. Here it is possible to find schemes, just as has been said in the proposition. One can apply to re-open the system, and then it must also be assumed that one restores that requirement from 1 November.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1724	The representative Martin Kolberg has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor for a brief comment of up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1729	I have to say that I did not fully understand what the Minister of Labour said in an attempt to defend why he does not vote for the holiday money. Of course, the kind of bureaucratic and administrative explanations do not serve the purpose of a political conversation. It has to be pretty obvious, and that's why I reject those arguments. So, until the Minister of Finance said, it's true that there are many other measures implemented by the government, with the approval of the Stortinge, that help to remedy the situation. But why in the world is it getting in the way of voting that the 230,000 people can get holiday money the next summer? I don't understand. And that's not to be understood by any logic other than what I've been saying on a number of other occasions, and that I'm going to repeat: it's not possible to understand it any other way than that it's what right-wing people think, and that's what right-wing policy is.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1737	I want to thank the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health for giving the presentations. I was going to say yesterday that they could have come before, and that they could come more often, but speaking time was not going to last. I think it's good for the hall that we have these discussions about strategy and about action. The word dew is used. It's been abandoned now, and I think it's right to leave it. ‘Power thank-you’ is what the Prime Minister called it. But it's a minority government, and there's people out there who, according to the Prime Minister, are coronas. I think we all see and hear it. Well, then, anchoring here is wise. There are three lessons from this debate that I think it is interesting to include further. One is the view on the duration of measures. It's the government's view that if these arrangements last too long, people get almost dull – they get stuck, they don't get into activity, it slows down the activity. We believe, on the contrary, that when it is a duration, it gives predictability to businesses and workers. And I repeat, if the situation turns around, the Stortinget has the full opportunity to adjust the measures along the way. But this provides the security that businesses tell us about when we travel around – we tend to listen to the social partners – and LO, NHO, Works and a wide range of organisations report it back. The second element is the peculiarity of this crisis; it is not to compare with anyone else. The Prime Minister is right: the virus comes from nature, and it has also hit other countries. But it is politically decided to close down in Norway, it is politically decided to set borders, limit and introduce social distance. Therefore, the measures must go hand in hand and they must last for as long as the crisis lasts. That is why I believe that we should take with us experiences from other crises, but that is a peculiar feature of this. It is different from when businesses face a common problem in a market and permit. We have experience with that. So here's a situation where companies that've gone, so they have to stop and want to come back. Then the permitting is in another light. The third is the time after the corona, which we hope can start after the summer, when we're all vaccinated. It is to ensure that Norway is then in operation, with minimal adverse effects. I say minimum, for the adverse effects are going to be there, for some businesses and for some people, and for the most vulnerable of us. I will end by saying that the responsibility we have to take measures like fences about children and young people, who fence about that generation – students, students, vulnerable children – who see the one in six children that Red Barna says were subjected to assault when we shut down in March, must be the most important thing we can bring with us to fend for people. If we do that, Norway can get started – and we will. Compared to other countries, we are better off now, but I believe that what the majority has presented today in the United Kingdom strengthens the defence agency to take Norway on the way after the Korona.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1752	I have to give the representative Kolberg right in one thing, and that is that when I come here as the Council of State to answer in the Storting, it may not be with a political rhetorical fireworks. But this is not the National Meeting of the Young Right either. I'm not a youth delegate in a school debate. I am here as the Council of State to answer questions from Stortinget, and I assume that Stortinget is interested in the information that the Department and the Council of State have on the matters they might adopt. I could try to put it in a simpler way. During the Korona crisis, a unanimous increase has given all unemployed people more money. With the new holiday scheme, those who are unemployed get a real holiday when the rest of Norway is on vacation, in the public holidays if they want to, four weeks of daily pay without having to apply for a job during the period. So the representative Rigmor Aasrud was in and on the inside: it's fun to discuss the big things, but a little bit of the problem that the Storting and the government have also experienced, is that in part of these arrangements is just the devil in the details. If you have unclear decisions, if you don't have well enough informed decisions, it's easy that there are delays and confusion that make the help come to people later than it might otherwise have. If the big decision that might come, or for which it's a majority, means that you have to apply again, it's okay, it's not a problem. As Mr Aasrud points out, the government itself has proposed this. What's more difficult, on the other hand, is if you're going to re-date. Here are the people who have gone out of a system on 1 November, based on what was the Great Britain's adopted policy then. Why is that difficult? This is difficult, among other things. because it is normal to offset other benefits. If you establish a search – now it’s not in the decision from Stortinget, but if that’s what all the parties agree on, it’s all right – there’s a kind of practical problem that you have to take into account. The size selects how they will deal with their affairs. My point is that in several of these cases there may be relevant information the departments are sitting on that we can deliver, not as a rhetorical fireworks but as usual information to the Stortinget when making large, comprehensive and expensive decisions – as you usually do. We can do it fast, too. We're used to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1763	It looks like it's coming to the end of the debate, but I want to repeat my proposal when it came to voting – from my first post. I have not received any answer to it, but now it's soon voting, so we'll hear what the majority say. Now we have at least described some of the challenges that the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs has raised. This means that if one submits the proposal no. 16-24 to the Committee, there is a proposition which already deals with daily allowances, leave of absence, etc. If they are not sent to the committee, then one must go back to the government, which must create a new proposition related to this. So in order to both streamline and implement what the majority believes, I believe that the best thing would be to submit proposals no. 16-24 to the Committee. With regard to proposals Nos. 25–45 – and then I also take with the flight proposal, which SV is not behind, but for which it is a majority – the government parties see that it is a majority for them. However, we would like to ask for them to be sent to the government without a trial. We are fully aware that what is contained in these proposals is to be implemented, and that is what the government is to notify back. If the majority do not want it, we can make it very simple: then the government parties will vote against all the proposals – not because we are opposed to the proposals, but because we have got about. five to six hours to assess them, and we believe that this is completely irresponsible in being able to decide on such comprehensive proposals. We would rather come back to it when we get these matters back to Stortinget for final voting. Then we may vote for many, perhaps all. We'll see about that. So that's my proposal: to submit the proposals No. 16-24 to the Labour and Social Committee and proposals No 25–45 to the government without a motion of reality. Otherwise, we are voting against the remaining proposals, for which there is no majority in the House.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1776	The representative of Greece then made it clear to the Right. The representative, Rigmor Aasrud, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1783	I will answer the first part of the representative of Greece's request from the pulpit, which I have answered once before today. We've seen that the government can come back pretty quickly to the Storing with propositions. We have a matter for consideration in our committee now, and we have said that the government would like to come back and answer the request decisions in an additional proposition that we can deal with at the same time as the matter that is already there. It's not very complicated things that are from us, and they can just come back, and we're going to adapt the discussion in the committee to that. We have already taken this into account when dealing with the progress of the case in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1788	The representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1793	For the various proposals, there may be a certain difference of opinion in the Chamber as well, and it is easy to find out where the majority is, so that there would be no confusion about it in the government's follow-up. To what has been the subject here at the end of the holiday allowance, which we also believe is an important matter: yes, it is right that there has been an increase in income insurance for those with low income through daily allowances. But at the same time: the important thing about holiday money on day money, of course, is that those who have the most impact of it are those who have been long-term on the basis of long-term leave, who have been on leave since the pandemic, and who will then have little vacation money to pay when you get to summer. If you're still on a daily basis when summer comes, you can enjoy those arrangements, but we'll have hope, and we'll also make it easier for you to get to work as much as possible within that time. Then there are many who have little paid holiday money, and holiday money for the day will be an important hand bill for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1800	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox I don't know. I don't know. I don't know.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1815	Then Stortinget is ready to go to voting in case no. 1-3 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1827	Case No. 1 is the third reading of the law and concerns Law Decision 59 with the adopted remark at the Grand Duchy meeting on 18 December 2020. It is therefore contested by the legislative decision with the adopted remark from the second reading.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1839	The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved by the third reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1851	Case No. 2 is the third reading of the law and is subject to the rule of law 60, with the opinion adopted at the Grand Duchy meeting on 18 December 2020. It is therefore contested by the legislative decision with the adopted remark from the second reading.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1863	The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved by the third reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1876	A total of 77 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1–6, from Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red proposal No 7, from Audun Lightbakken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 8, from Audun Lysbakken on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 9 and 10, from Audun Lighthouse on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 11, from Audun Lysbakken on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 12-14, from Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No 15, from Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 16–44, by Jonas Gahr Støre, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 45, from Jonas Gahr Støre on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Progress Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 46-62, by Jonas Gahr Støre, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 63 and 64, by Jonas Gahr Støre, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 65, by Jonas Gahr Støre, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 66, from Jonas Gahr Støre on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party proposal No 67, from Audun Lysbakken on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 68 and 69, from Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 70, from Audun Lighthouse on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 71 to 77, from Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party Proposal No. In the course of the debate, 70 were drawn. For information, the government parties have informed that they wish to vote against all the proposals for case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to return to Stortinget with proposals to ensure that the unemployed do not take the bill for leave through waiting days or reduced employer’s period.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1952	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 5, from Red. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to consider abolishing the exemption from the obligation to carry out the quarantine period at a quarantine hotel for employees and contractors in cases where the employer or contracting entity provides the place of residence.’; Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with proposals that lower the requirement for reduced working time in order to receive daily allowance during leave, so that those who work for periods more than 50 per cent do not lose the right to a daily allowance.’ The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1976	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 6, from Red. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the employer is fined if the employee is working during the quarantine period, in cases where the employer is aware that the employee has resided in a red country. 'Proposal No 6 sounds: «The government asks the Government to return to the Grand Duchy with proposals to ensure that everyone who has been unemployed is paid a holiday allowance for the period during which they have received a daily allowance.» Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e1995	There is a vote on proposal No. Three from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to obtain assessments from the local authorities of the north-norwegian municipalities and to take them into account in the assessment of measures to prevent imports from foreign soldiers. Planned exercises and training should be modified, adapted or cancelled, if necessary to avoid the local spread of import infection and the overloading of civil health services. 'The Group of the Party of European Socialists, the Left Party of European Socialists and the Greens, have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2011	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to reduce the ceiling for the payment of aid under the business compensation scheme to 10 million. krona per enterprise per month.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2026	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7 and 9 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for social benefit activity requirements as long as the coronary crisis persists’. 9 sounds: "The government asks the government to increase the rate of daily allowances to 80 per cent for the first 4 G until 1 October 2021 for all beneficiaries of daily allowances." The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2045	There is a vote on proposal No. 68, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the government to include closed events in the direction of the organiser industry in the support scheme for public open events.»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2060	There is a vote on proposal No. 69, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government requests the inclusion of costs related to lost stocks as a result of the expiry of the date as a result of infection protection measures in the inescapable-cost compensation scheme.» The Workers' Party and Red have notified support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2075	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 11 and 15, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 11 sounds: "The government is asking for temporary relaxation in international patent regimes so that low-income and middle-income countries can increase their production of medicines, vaccines and other technologies to combat covid-19." 15 sounds: «The government is asked by the government in the package of measures announced in January 2021 to make proposals to increase the allocation of municipal food funds.» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2094	There is a vote on proposal No. 12 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals for a temporary reduction in the VAT rate for catering services to 15 % for a minimum of 2 semesters in 2021 in January 2021’. The Green and Red Environmental Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2110	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 13 and 14 from the Center Party. Proposal No. 13 sounds: «The government of the compensation scheme is asked to define autonomous industries in the same individual enterprise as own enterprises if separate accounts are kept.» Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government of the compensation scheme is asked to define separate areas of activity in the same limited liability company as its own enterprises if separate accounts are kept’. The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have notified support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2129	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 71 and 74, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 71 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals to ensure that stores which it wishes can keep open all day.’ Proposal No. 74 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to introduce temporary reinforcements in the entry provisions into Norway and to define the purposes for which the right of entry into Norway is granted.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2148	There is a vote on proposal No. 75, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to ensure the daily manning of all border stations.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2163	There is a vote on proposal No. 72, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that training centres that establish adequate protection against infection can remain open’. The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2178	There is a vote on proposal No. 76, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that mandatory corona testing is introduced upon entry into Norway and that foreign corona test certificates are rejected.’ The Workers’ Party has notified its support.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2194	There is a vote on proposal No. 77, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that all those arriving at Norwegian border stations register.’ The Workers’ Party and Red have notified support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2209	There is a vote on proposal No. 67, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asking for the protection of the income of newly-trained people who become unemployed after completion of education, during the Korona crisis.» The Green and Red Environmental Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2224	There is a vote on proposal No. 66, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: "The government is asking the government to strengthen Nav's follow-up and offer to new graduates who are unemployed." The Green and Red Environmental Party has announced its support for the proposal. The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2241	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 63 and 64, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 63 sounds: ‘The government is asking for compensation schemes to be required to be repaid by beneficiaries if they go to cancellations’. Proposal No. 64 sounds: ‘The government is asking the compensation schemes to require beneficiary enterprises to repay the aid if they pay dividends.’ Red has notified aid to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2260	There is a vote on proposal No. 65, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the compensation schemes to require the recipient companies to repay the aid if they buy back their own shares’. The Green and Red Environmental Party has notified support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2275	There is a vote on proposal No. 8, from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a reduction in working time requirements in order to receive daily allowances under the leave to 40 per cent by 1 October 2021.’ The Green Party has announced its support for the proposal. Red has announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2293	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 46–61, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 46 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the reintroduction and extension of the scheme of lower income conditions in order to receive daily allowances for new cases for the duration of the crisis, now until 01.10.2021.’ 47 sounds: [[0,75G in the last 12 months or 2,25G in the last 36 months]] ‘The government asks the government to increase the rate to 70 % in the scheme for self-employed and freelancers.’ 48 sounds: «The government is asked to reintroduce the rule for an extended period of time for the receipt of redundancy payments as a job seeker for the duration of the crisis until 01.10.2021.» 49 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that beneficiaries of the fixed-term benefit benefit benefit are allowed to extend their period of time in such a way that the non-clearance of the pandemic does not result in the reduction of the three-year quota for the beneficiaries.’ 50 sounds: ‘The size of the government in the package of measures notified in January calls for proposals to increase the allocation of housing aid in order to temporarily increase the income limit of the housing aid scheme to 01.10.2021 corresponding to the ‘crisis settlement’ scheme for 2020.’» Proposal No. 51 sounds: «The government is asked to reintroduce the holiday supplement for daily allowance with effect from 1 January 2002. 01.01.2020 so that daily allowances earned in 2020 are entitled to holiday allowances in 2021 according to the rules applicable before 2015. 'Proposal No 52 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that state-owned companies which farm animals contribute to the crisis-affected businesses through the crisis, inter alia by waiving minimum rent and other reductions in rent as monks. 'Proposal No 53 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to monitor the development of corporate and business rentals since 12 March 2020 and whether less rents have been paid by lessors to businesses and traders who have experienced a decline in turnover as a result of the coronary apathy. 'Proposal No 54 sounds: «The government is asked by the government for the package of measures to be submitted on 29 January to propose a turnover-based grant scheme for activities severely affected by the coronary apathy. Payments shall be capped in such a way as to give priority to small enterprises.’ 55 sounds: ‘The government is asking the compensation schemes to require beneficiary enterprises to enter into contracts with trustees in order to maintain jobs, avoid redundancies and ensure that employees are taken care of.’ 56 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that beneficiaries of grants from the compensation scheme are not able to pay bonuses to senior executives, increase executive or management fees in 2021 or have parent companies in third-country jurisdictions that are on the EU’s blacklist of non-cooperating jurisdictions.’ 57 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that beneficiaries of the compensation scheme cannot replace permanent staff and seconded by temporary staff.’;» Proposal No. 58 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back with proposals for a model that limits the payment of dividends by enterprises that have received aid under the compensation schemes introduced by the coronary apathy.’ 59 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to ensure that municipal and county owned activities such as, among other things, VTA companies, cinemas, sports facilities/bathing facilities and community buildings also receive state compensation.’ 60 sounds: «The decision asks the Government of the package of measures notified in January to submit proposals to grant conversion funds to municipalities particularly severely affected by covid-19.» 61 sounds: «The government is asking the government to strengthen the Labour Inspectorate so that they can increase their activity in the field of employment supervision.» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2341	There is a vote on proposal No. 73, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that low-infection municipalities are able to authorise the use of alcohol in food-serving.” The Workers’ Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2358	President, I voted wrong. I had to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2363	The result is that 57 representatives voted in favour of the proposal and 30 voted against. The proposal is therefore a welcome one. There will be a vote on proposal No. 62, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for greater control at border crossings, including adapted solutions at less-traffic crossings’. The Green and Red Environmental Party has announced its support for the proposal. The Progress Party has announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2382	There is a vote on proposal No. 45, from the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish a compensation scheme for Norwegian carriers that have operated over time in Norway. The purpose of the scheme shall be to ensure the Norwegian route offer, safe Norwegian aviation jobs and requirements shall be imposed to ensure that the aid does not go to the creditors and shareholders of the companies. The aid shall contribute to ensuring permanent and direct employment with Norwegian aviation pay and working conditions.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2397	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 16–44, from the Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to extend the period of leave to 1 October 2021. 'Proposal No 17 sounds: ‘The government is asked to extend the increase in the daily allowance rate, 80 % of the daily allowance base up to 3 G, to 01.10.2021. 'Proposal No 18 sounds: ‘The government is asked to consider postponing the employer’s period II to 1 July 2021. 'Proposal No 19 reads: ‘The government requests the suspension of three days’ waiting time to receive daily allowances until 01.10.2021. 'Proposal No 20 sounds: ‘The government requests a maximum period of time for receipt of daily allowances to be extended to 01.10.2021, including in cases beyond the maximum period from 1 November until the date of implementation of the change.’ 21 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to extend the income hedge scheme for self-employed and freelancers to 01.10.21 with a comparison basis 2019. 'Proposal No 22 sounds: ‘The government requests the extension of the pension scheme for apprentices up to 01.10.2021’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: [[also for new cases]] ‘The Government requests the extension of temporary rules for sickness benefits for workers, freelancers and self-employed to 01.07.2021’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government is asking the supervisor to continue to dispose of housing or other assets in order to receive social assistance until 01.10.2021.’ 25 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to establish as soon as possible a crisis support scheme for students who have experienced loss of income due to the coronary apathy of the spring semester 2021. The scheme shall be more accessible and shall have a higher grant rate than in the spring of 2020 and shall be based on a framework in which the scholarships amount to 1 billion. krones.’ Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to ensure that partially-married taxi drivers are able to record on a report card the time actually spent driving, not all waiting time between assignments. 'Proposal No 27 sounds: "The government is asking for the strengthening of the possibility that intra-corporate training can become a real alternative to placements, including for large industrial enterprises." 28 sounds: «The budget asks the Government of the package of measures notified in January to propose a package of at least 1 billion. with reinforced labour law action places for the unemployed and the outsourced, increased resources for the follow-up and guidance of the trainees and the unemployed, as well as the strengthening of the means of business-internal training and party-led provision of skills.’ 29 sounds: ‘The government, in cooperation with the social partners, is asked, by February at the latest, to propose a new wage support model so that people can be kept in employment rather than on leave.’ 30 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to extend the general compensation scheme until 1 July 2021 with a compensation rate of 85 %.’ 31 sounds: «The government is asked to submit proposals to include regulatory maintenance and supervision in the fixed-cost compensation scheme.» Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose adjustments to the support schemes that contribute to the equal treatment of enterprises with employees/who own own resources with companies that hire personnel/leasing equipment. 'Proposal No 33 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to continue and strengthen the system of allocating funds to municipalities with unemployment over the national average as made in the re-balancing of the State budget 2020. This system shall, in particular, benefit undertakings affected by local or national measures or closures.» Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to strengthen the switchover system through Innovation Norway to travel, event industry, catering and other sectors hit hard by the infectious diseases control measures, within a framework of 1 billion. krones. 'Proposal No 35 sounds: «The Government asks the Government to ensure that the support scheme for public open event is continued until 1 July 2021 and that the size of the event is reduced and adapted to prevent infection.» 36 sounds: ‘The government requests the establishment of an application-based grant scheme for enterprises that are not adequately covered or fall outside the general compensation scheme’. Proposal No. 37 sounds: [[ventilator system]] ‘The government is asking for proposals to postpone the payment of VAT, employer’s tax and advance tax until 1 July 2021. 'Proposal No 38 sounds: ‘The government is asking the municipalities to provide sufficient resources to increase the testing capacity in accordance with the testing obligation directly upon arrival and at quarantine hotels, and to ensure increased testing for covid 19 among risk groups in municipal health institutions.’ 39 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure sufficient testing capacity at the airports so that testing can be carried out at the aerodromes on arrival’. Proposal No. 40 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to provide for a better control system for compliance with test obligations and quarantine obligations with increased use of random sampling and the use of fines. 'Proposal No 41 sounds: «The government is asked to provide compulsory quarantine hotels paid by employers for migrant workers where the employer cannot provide satisfactory solutions and ensure that they are adequately monitored.» Proposal No. 42 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to rapidly establish a link between the entry register and the MSIS lab database in line with the Health Directorate’s recommendations, in order to ensure better follow-up of testing obligations and compliance with quarantine rules/isolation. 'Proposal No 43 sounds: «The government is asking the government to propose strict responses to employers who, through their activities, violate quarantine rules for the importation of labour. 'Proposal No 44 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to remove the scheme that opens up to test itself in the municipality 24 hours after arrival’. The Green and Red Environmental Party has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2476	The President proposes that the statements by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health and Care be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. So we go to case no. 8, which is Unit, before Stortinget continues to deal with the issues on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2492	There is no Unit.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2508	The President will arrange the debate in accordance with Section 69 of the Rules of Procedure, as well as the opportunity for one from each party group to have the floor once for up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2513	Having regard to the Rules of Procedure of the Storting § 69 concerning the work in Stortinget, I have allowed myself to ask the question that the President has just referred to. The purpose of this is to clarify which rules of the game we follow, whether there is an interest in complying with them, and the adverse effects of the Storting by ignoring them. We do not get along with the fact that it is ultimately the individual representatives' willingness to comply with constitutional standards that are essential to the proper functioning of democratic institutions. In that case, it becomes an independent task to raise awareness and accountability of the constitutional obligations of a staging representative and how measures can be taken to enforce them more consistently. It shall be the responsibility of representatives having access to the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. DUUFK is set up to enable the Storting to be consulted on sensitive issues relating to defence, security and foreign policy, and the Committee will also receive, regularly or through questions, classified information from government and civil service. An example of slippage can be read in the class struggle on Wednesday 2 December, which gives a reference to the representative of Moxnes and his record of what should have been a theme for the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence a few days earlier, while using the press release to give its own interpretation and assessment of what should have been said. The Rules of Procedure of the Board of Directors set out in Sections 75 and 75a the professional secrecy of representatives: ‘The representatives are bound by professional secrecy with regard to all cases dealt with for closed doors in Stortinget. The obligation of professional secrecy also applies to the examination of such matters within the Committees. The representatives are further bound by professional secrecy as to what they become aware of in the exercise of the grossing-up profession: a) Information classified under the Security Act or the Protection Instructions The first time a representative meets, he shall provide a taush statement using a form established by the Presidency.’;» [[...]] And in § 75a it says: ‘The provisions of Chapter 8 of the Safety Act, including provisions on safety clearance and authorisation, shall not apply to the staging representatives. In addition, the provisions of the Security Act and the Protection Instructions apply to the processing of classified information equivalent to that of the representatives and committees. The Presidency of the Grand Duchy may lay down supplementary guidelines on the practice of the rules.’.» The emphasis on the confidentiality of meetings appears in every call to the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. No one attending these meetings may doubt that the record of handling and commenting matters concerning them is also a breach of the signed taushet declaration under Section 75 of the Rules of Procedure and thus also a breach of the constitutional obligations of the representatives. The rules do not leave any personal discretion on the part of each representative as to what he or she thinks he or she can be informed externally. The same considerations apply at least equally to classified information under the Security Act. Only the person who has issued the information can downgrade the information. Concrete information on preparedness, defence, relations with other countries and the EOS services are typical areas that are particularly sensitive. The leaks from DUUFK not only represent a personal failure of confidence towards co-representatives, but also undermine the ability of Stortingen to receive classified information without compromising it. Such breaches of the rules, if they are not reacted to, represent a danger to the institutional integrity of the Storing and will make it more difficult for the Government to consult the Storing before making decisions in the sphere of government competence. This also weakens the ability of the Storting to influence these decisions informally. The size of the game will be lost. This also weakens the popularised anchoring of such decisions. Another consequence is that the incorporated functional distribution and the interaction between accumulation and government are harmful. This does not determine whether there are now breaches of the Security Act, as it will represent an independent violation of the Criminal Code which could in principle be reported and investigated. On the other hand, in this round it is urgent to inculcate a consciousness and respect for the constitutional duties that are incumbent upon all of us as representatives. A consistent and effective enforcement of the signed taushets declarations of representatives and the Rules of Procedure of the Storting § 16 and 75 will at the same time help to prevent unauthorised disclosure of information that would harm Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2555	The representative Tetzschner has asked questions to the presidency according to the Rules of Procedure of the Storting § 69. According to that provision, such a question has to be answered in plenary. The representative has asked questions about how the Presidency assesses the tendency of individual representatives to disregard the signed statements of professional secrecy, the breach of the obligation of professional secrecy laid down in Section 75 of the Stortinge Rules of Procedure, including the obligation of professional secrecy on the negotiations of the extended Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence under Section 16 of the Rules of Procedure, and what measures should be considered in order to better ensure the integrity of the Stortinge. The question raised by the representative Tetzschner is general. The Presidency will therefore not consider whether, in individual cases, there may have been a recent breach of the provisions on professional secrecy in the Storting Rules of Procedure. Notwithstanding this, the Presidency of the Storting considers it particularly important that the provisions on professional secrecy contained in the Rules of Procedure of the Storting should be complied with by the representatives. Infringements of such provisions are serious both for the interests to be protected in each case and because this may damage the confidence that the Storting is able to receive and process such information in a proper manner. General confidence in this is in the clear interest of Stortinget, as the representative Tetzschner emphasised in his statement. This also applies to: that the government is able to inform the Government of sensitive issues with certainty that the information is not made available to unauthorised persons. It is also essential that representatives should have confidential discussions between themselves in order to take account of the proceedings in Stortinget. The latter applies in general to the work of the Committees and not only to discussions under the auspices of the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. For each representative, breach of the provisions on professional secrecy in the Rules of Procedure of the Storting is a serious matter. This could be seen as a breach of the constitutional obligations of the representative, which could ultimately lead to the opening-up of a case of possible national liability. Significant work has therefore been done in recent years on legislation on the treatment of confidentiality-related and classified information. In 2019, the provisions on this in Stortinget’s Rules of Procedure were reviewed. Among other things, it was stated in Stortingen’s Rules of Procedure that representatives and committees are bound by the rules of the Security Act and the protection directive on the processing of classified information. In order to provide the representatives and committees with practical guidance on how to comply with this detailed legislation, the Presidency also adopted supplementary guidelines on the processing of classified information in autumn 2019. It may also be mentioned that the wording of Section 16 of the Rules of Procedure of the Storting on the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence was amended in 2019. The former term ‘secret’ was replaced by ‘obligation of professional secrecy’. The purpose was, among other things, to make it more clear that disclosure of information from the Committee's confidential negotiations constitutes a breach of the obligation of professional secrecy. This obligation of professional secrecy shall apply unless expressly decided otherwise by the Committee. The chairperson of the Committee may decide that the convening of the meeting shall also be subject to professional secrecy. This is done on a regular basis, so that the general rule in practice is that calling and agendas are also subject to professional secrecy. The rules on professional secrecy are otherwise laid down in the Rules of Procedure of the Storting § 75. Subject to this provision, the representatives also sign a separate taushet declaration. Following the Presidency’s assessment, the rules on the professional secrecy of representatives in the negotiations of the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy and the obligation of professional secrecy for classified and confidential information are more generally clear, and they have, as mentioned, been recently revised. To the extent that there are some challenges related to failure to deal with confidential information, it is more close, in the view of the Presidency, to the enforcement of the rules than to their design. It is therefore important for each representative to be aware of and to have a conscious relationship with the professional secrecy imposed by the Rules of Procedure of the Storting § 75, with the taushet statement they have signed, and with the applicable rules on security-rated information. As a contribution to increasing awareness of the rules on professional secrecy in force in Stortinget, and the implications for each representative, the Presidency will take its own initiative towards the big business representatives and party groups in Stortinget in this respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2572	I stress that I do not take a stand for any specific actions when I now comment on this matter. I express myself on a principle basis. The enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence has a special place in the organisation of the Storting. It has been given an authority and a place in the Rules of Procedure, as the President has now explained well. It is clear to me and to everyone else that there should be good transparency in the political change of words in a democratic society, but it is also the case that in a democratic society there are matters and situations that must and should be discussed in confidentiality. The country's security requires exactly that. Therefore, the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, as organised, is necessary and appropriate. The rules and rules on professional secrecy are, in my opinion, very clear and easy to understand. The size must have such an opportunity to receive confidential and secret information. Without such an opportunity, the Storting would have been cut off from receiving information that is important that the Storing, which is at the disposal of the highest elected body, has knowledge of and has the opportunity to discuss and reflect around. I agree with the President's understanding of the law as she has produced it here from the pulpit now. And I say it this way: Of course, it's not like this in our regulations or in our political practice that it's possible to impose some kind of restrictions on representatives if they don't directly commit crimes. But it's just saying that this regulation is clear, it's clear, it's supported by the Workers' Party, and it's easy to comply with. It's just that when you take part in the discussions in the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, you don't talk about it in public space. There is only one obligation that each representative must put on to maintain the necessary confidentiality in the communication between the institutions concerned and the Storting within the framework of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2581	When the evening post office called and told me about Tetzschner's question, I was quite surprised, I have to admit. Then I realized that three days later there would be a nomination meeting in Oslo Right. It is in particular to have a comprehensive charge filed in plenary and have only three minutes to answer the totally groundless charges that Tetzschner is promoting. I have not broken any confidentiality obligations that apply to DUUFK, I have not broken any laws or regulations. In the interview that it responds to, I have made one single comment about the meeting itself: I am not reassured after the meeting. I say nothing about the content of the meeting, nothing about what I have said, nor what others have said. That the meeting was about the spy disclosures from Denmark, the other confirmed to NTB on 19 November: ‘Chairman Anniken Huitfeldt and Minister of Defence Frank Bakke-Jensen previously agreed this week to place the matter on the agenda of an ordinary meeting of DUUFK’. [[Ap]] [[H]] So I didn't make the theme known. It was the other thing that did, in all publicity. The government's position on the matter, which is what I am otherwise commenting on the newspaper, is known to the public after Erna Solberg presented it in this room in the Questionnaire on 18 November 2020. That I'm saying what I think about a case that the United States has probably been spying on Norway may irritate Tetzschner, but it's not a violation of any laws or regulations. Nor does it damage the integrity of Storting, but there is a risk that Tetzschner and Højre’s behaviour may damage the integrity of Stortinget and Norway if they have failed to protect Norway from espionage and allow such a serious case to go for closed doors. It seems to be better for them to try to sit it down and refrain from public debate, without being held responsible for it in public. The espionage disclosures merge into a long and not very honourable series of issues where there is no wish for public debate on the part of the government. It is the real disagreement in this matter when we ignore the completely groundless accusations of Michael Tetzschner. Red considers that there is a need for more transparency and a strengthening of the control and involvement of the Storting in foreign and security policy. We also agreed to look at this by decision taken just before the summer. There is reason to hope for a more open debate, but there is probably not going to be proper speed on this without a stronger Red on the Stortinget from the coming harvest. But again, to the charge of having published a secret: the theme of the meeting had come out into the country's media on 18 November 2020, said by others other than me. So it's completely groundless, and it's also probably an excursion to pursue purposes other than what's said to be the real purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2603	I was going to kick away from the Minister of Defense on my way over here, but I didn't mean to. I think it is good that the President makes it clear that we are not going to decide here on the specific matter, but since others have gone quite far into it, I just have to say on my own account that I find it difficult to see that something has emerged from the current meeting – which was not otherwise known – through the representative of the Moxnes said to the newspaper. [[Laughter]] As far as publicity is concerned, what is the subject of meetings in the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence has happened many times – as far as I can remember – and it may be unfair to hang it on one representative. I think that's fair and correct. So you can take a round around how the Storting should handle publicity around that theme. Here I would also like to welcome an initiative from the presidency to a broader discussion about this body and its role and how we can make sure both to keep it secret as being secret, and to avoid unnecessary secrecy around things that we could discuss openly. That's, I think, an important part of this. There is also a question that I believe opens up to a discussion that SV has wanted for many years, whether it is not time for the Stortinget to look at the possibility of reforms around this body, for example. to ensure a space for anchoring and discussing foreign policy issues that need not be secret, and to keep the two things apart. There is also a risk that we get too little publicity about important things that are well known that we are discussing, and that there is no reason to keep away from the public. I think it is healthy to review this, but I would ask the presidency to look at the possibility of a more comprehensive discussion about the organisation of this and the enlarged future of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2614	I want to start by thanking the President for the answer. Of course, I end up with the points of view that emerge. My first post was made because of a rather fresh example, but we also have several, and it really wasn't completely directed, at least not exclusively, towards the representative of Moxnes. The aim is to clarify the rules, that they apply to all, not only those representatives who respect them, but above all that the Storting loses depth/background information when it is shown that it is not able to process trusted information safely. I stunned over the posts of the representative Moxnes. Actually, it was not so surprising a personal attack without explaining the breach that is being read – in two rounds – in the class struggle. It is on this issue that the presidency is referred to, so that any representative can gain firsthand knowledge of it. I don't think we should let it go uncommented that the post revealed that the representative either doesn't understand the rules, or simply rises above them, and that the taushet statement that is signed is just a piece of paper for the representative. Of course, there has never been any requirement – let's say – to treat these matters confidentially, that they are not discussed elsewhere, and that they cannot be controversial in other contexts. It's never been. There is no real defence, other than trivialisation and exodus. To this extent, the articles by Moxnes have only confirmed the topicality of the issue. What do you say about a person who swaps confidential information you have received as a representative, for press releases, and thus is willing to play the scheme that allows the Stortinge to discuss with the government, and the government with the Stortinge, within its responsibility, sensitive matters? Injuring the institution you represent to be media-interesting, the term leak profiteer – nothing more, nothing less. We have recently seen a Deputy Director of the Bank of Norway lose the security clearance – not because he had done something critical or suspicious, but because some role combinations, in the opinion of the safety authorities, provide vulnerability and should be avoided. As you know, the regulatory committee is in turn to update our regulations. The Presidency can also provide complementary guidance within the current provisions, and I hope that it will work on this topic and respond to the initiatives announced by the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2627	Some closing comments also from my side. To the representative of Kolberg, who mentions this with penalties: in fact, it has been discussed earlier whether to impose penalties other than criminal liability in the event of breaches of the constitutional obligations of the representatives. It was discussed in the Regulatory Committee which delivered its work in 2013, but it was not followed up. Then at least it is mentioned in this debate. I would also like to remind you of what I said in my post relating to the obligation of professional secrecy. In particular, for the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, I would just like to stress that the general rule in practice is that calling and agendas are subject to professional secrecy. I think it's important to highlight it in this discussion. So to the Light Background: I would like to invite the SV and the Light Background to record this, because the issues of the Rules of Procedure and the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence may well be included in the work on reviewing Storting's Rules of Procedure in the Regulatory Committee set up by the Presidentship of Storting. It is planned to report to the Presidentship of Storting by 1 March, and it will then be dealt with in the Parliamentary Chamber before the summer. In this way, the Storting House will be able to decide on that type of proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2645	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2661	At the request of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2666	The document we are now discussing, Document 1, i.e. the National Audit Office's report on the annual review for 2019, is a comprehensive document. The National Audit Office has done a thorough job, as they do every year, to review accounts, to review administrative regulations and their follow-up, and also to assess compliance with the Storting decision. I think the Riksrevision itself says it quite well in its opening chapter on the country's accounts. They say "that the accounts of the State are basically good." The National Audit Office has gone through 230 accounts and thus found significant errors only in the accounts related to the Ministry of Defence. I think I might say on behalf of the whole committee that when there are errors in one account, there is no surprise to the members of the committee that it is precisely in the Ministry of Defence, because it has been repeated over many years, both in accounting matters and in other matters that the Committee of Inquiry has been dealing with on the basis of the National Audit Office's reports. That's right enough, and that's part of the story, that there are some improvements, but you're still not going to make good accounting, without any significant mistakes. That's something the Minister of Defense has to take care of. So until what is called "administrative legislation": there are nine fractures found. A number of them are also linked to the Ministry of Defence and to various departments in the Defence Department, but also to the Directorate of eHealth, Food Safety and the Attorney General's Office there are errors regarding the follow-up of administrative legislation. I'm going to use the rest of my measured time to say more about compliance. What perhaps got the most attention in the presentation of the report was that the country has claimed 627 million. NOK too much in charge. That's $268 million. kr for registration in the Løsøreregister in Brønnøysund, 200 mill. kr for applications and outlays of the courts and the police, and 89 million. kr for object lighting in the Staten Kartverk. And so the state has demanded 54.5 million. kr too much of those young people who already think it is expensive to go to the driving test, through excessive collection of fees related to the theoretical knowledge examination. We assume that what the Riksrevision points out as critical is being followed up after the report's presentation and the Storting discussion. It is also serious, it is highly critical that Nav does not control subsidies for labour market measures. It is serious because we are talking about permanent work, which is a system for those who may be the most difficult in the labour market and for whom it is very important, but also in the case of work-preparation measures. I assume that the Council of State will deal with the situation that Nav has to have control systems that make the money go to help people, and not disappear in various group transactions, and that one has the ability to verify the effect of the money being paid. We agree that this is highly critical. It is also serious, in order to take another example, that the State Road Administration has inadequate follow-up and inspection of installations and equipment on the national road network. It is, in the opinion of the National Audit Office, inadequate, and there has been a lot of attention on it. The Riksrevision characterises it as critical, and we, as the committee, agree that if the State Road Service does not follow up that the installations on the roads are traffic-proof and will function positively – and perhaps rather turn to being a threat to road safety – then it is highly critical, and something the State Road Service and the Council of State must immediately address.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2683	In this review, the financial year 2019 is under review. It is good to see that, with one exception, the annual accounts of the departments and their underlying establishments are without significant errors and deficiencies. The accounts are essentially correct and presented, and that's good. The National Audit Office has audited the government accounts and a total of 230 annual accounts of departments, underlying establishments and funds. In addition, the National Audit Office reports on critical issues from 10 studies carried out. Most audit reports reveal things and conditions that can be improved. In this document, the Riksrevision reports, as said, on ten critical issues that they have examined in more detail. I want to highlight what is happening to the Working and Welfare Act, Nav, and a finding related to the patient injury area. The Riksrevision strongly criticises the fact that the monitoring of labour and welfare services, i.e. Navs, grants for labour market measures organised by pre-approved intervention agencies, is not good enough, and it is critical that the patient injury procedure is still too long. The National Audit Office believes that Nav does not have sufficient controls and procedures to ensure that financial values provided through grants to labour market measures are permanently organised work, what we call VTA grants, and work-preparation training, AFT, will sufficiently benefit from the implementation and action participants. There's a lot of grants we're talking about. In 2019, the department paid €2.84 billion. SEK in grants to 292 action organisers. Approximately 16 200 people participated in AFT or VTA actions each month. The National Audit Office points out that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has made demands on the intervention agencies through the action regulation, and it states, among other things. the benefit of profits to the management company and to theparticipants. The National Audit Office points out that in many cases significant economic values generated by grants for redeployment and permanent work do not follow the action companies by reorganising into groups, and it has been seen that some of them have been done in recent years. The values thus do not benefit from the enforcement measures andparticipants. The Committee agrees with the Riksrevision that this should be checked better. The Committee notes that the Council of State says that it will follow this up, and it is pleased with that. Although increased appropriations have been made available to Norwegian patients’ compensation and to the National Health Appeals Board, the duration of proceedings has not been reduced, as foreseen by the Storting as they increased the appropriations. Patients who have experienced mistreatment that triggers liability are not treated within a reasonable period of time, and it may take a very long time, usually up to two to three years. The Committee endorses the criticisms and recommendations of the National Audit Office in this area. This is where it has to get better. It is good to see that the annual audit and audit of the National Audit Office for the financial year 2019, with the findings revealed, is taken seriously by the Councils and ministries. Such annual controls are an important document and a good basis for improvement work which must remain a high priority and focus.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2700	I would like to thank the Committee for its good work on this matter. We handle an interesting document. Document 1 from the National Audit Office tells us every year how the state operates after the political debate on a matter is over. While one in this room is discussing other things, the administration is going to do what we've been through, and Document 1 is going to tell us how it went. For example, the policy is not implemented as planned. One example is the NIBIO Research Institute. The research of the Institute gives us much of the knowledge we need to run and develop agriculture and forestry in this country. When NIBIO was created in 2015, three smaller research institutes were merged. It was a clear objective that the professional community should improve, the quality should improve, and one should save administrative resources. Now tell the National Audit Office that the Ministry has not ensured that these targets are met, and saving resources will take a long time. NIBIO is just one of many examples of Storting having agreed to reorganize into larger devices to improve your professional environment and improve your robustness. We have seen this in the universities and colleges, in the police, not least in the municipalities and now last in the courts. The problem is that the government doesn't seem to follow up with implementation plans that tend to achieve the goals. In this way, reorganization becomes a goal in itself, not that services should be improved or that resources should be saved with more efficient operation. Another example from Document 1 is that the patient injury procedure has not decreased even if the Size has increased the permissions to do so. The reason is that the companies that manage the case have received additional costs to Norsk Healthnet. Norsk Healthnet is a central unit for administrative services in the health administration that was created in 2016 to streamline the operation of the health management companies. At first, we received an estimate of 365 million savings. NOK 10 years. This was later reduced to 195 million. kr. Last year we learned in Document 1 that these efficiency gains have not been realised. Now we know that the reorganisation sets means from other purposes. Document 1 also shows us that large funds allowed to screen labour market measures are not able to operate the measures. This is because some enterprises that benefit are reorganised into large groups. The concerts take away the excess, and Nav does not follow up with control. In this way, funds allowed to the weakest in the labour market can go as a surplus to the private sector. I believe that the state wants to resolve this by putting action on offer. Offer in this field can quickly give us several large groups, which make it harder for Nav to follow up on the fact that the excess benefits the companies and participants. In addition, all experience has shown that it is difficult with tailors' room for users who are particularly difficult, when such things are going on offer. We need to make strict demands for what we adopt in the hall to be followed up by the government. I very much appreciate the fact that a joint committee in the setting sets out the requirement for reorganisations that in NIBIO must have clear objectives and a plan to ensure that the objectives are achieved. In the same way, control must be exercised to ensure that the authorised funds go to the agreed objectives. When the measurements are reached or the money is used as they should, we have to ask ourselves if this is the way to do it, is the right way to go. When the government invites the Stortinget to an administrative and professional centralisation of the state without knowing why and without implementing the objectives adopted, we need to find other political solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2717	I want to start by thanking the Riksaudition for once again a great and very important work on the annual audit. For the financial year 2019, the Riksrevision presented in this report, in particular, a detailed examination of 10 critical issues. There's a lot one could take up from those issues, but I only have time to comment on some of the most eye-catching findings. First, the lack of control of the intervention agencies is alarming. A very large sum is paid out of Community funds for labour market measures to help people enter the labour market. The money goes to action companies for permanent work organisation and for work training. This is one of the most important tasks in a welfare state, helping people into work. However, the Riksrevision finds that the Ministry does not have sufficient control over whether the large values allocated to these measures actually benefit action participants. We see that action companies reorganize into groups, and that money disappears into a larger and more complex corporate structure that the ministry does not have control over. It's alarming because it's about large sums of community resources, which are to be used for some of the most important things we do, and that kind of framework, of course, the trust people have in the welfare state. No company should be able to foam the cream and run away with money that would have gone to get people to work. The rules are clear that profits will go back to the benefit of the participants in the measures. Now the government must have control, so that the legislation is followed up. SV will follow this case further in the trade committee to clean up the future, because this system has major problems. I could also say that putting this out for tender is not necessarily the right answer. Another issue that the Riksrevision finds that the government has no control is whether private schools take state subsidies and school money from the students’ offerings. In Document 1 for 2019–2020, the Riksrevision found that almost 80 pst. by schools with a high risk of crime had not been followed up by the Directorate of Education through supervision or in another way — again a question of whether the community money is spent on what they are going to do or whether they are being taken to something else. Once again, it affects the confidence of the fissure layer, for all those who participate in that community, who pay taxes and get welfare services back, to know that the funds are used for what they are intended to do, and nothing else. This is a political issue. Our position as a party is clear on it, but no matter what one believes about profit in well-being, the laws and rules adopted by the Storting must be followed. The government must have control of that. But in this year's case, it appears that the Ministry of Knowledge has not cleaned this up, and that the Committee considers it to be critical. Then the Riksrevision has made important findings on the treatment time for patients’ damages, as other representatives have also mentioned. Despite the fact that the Storting has expressed concern for the long waiting periods for several years, despite increased appropriations and despite the new ICT system, the process continues to take too long, unreasonably long. Those who have been subjected to mistreatment must wait too long. The report in Document 1 shows that additional expenditure on joint production of administrative services is a contributing factor in increasing the allocation of patient injury proceedings not contributing to a reduction in procedural time – the market solution chosen by the government by setting up Norwegian Health Network, where health management companies are now purchasing services from them instead of using their own personnel. There is something SV will follow up on further in the trade committee, how market models do not work in the healthcare system, and what kind of alternatives exist. So finally, something that has soon evolved into a kind of tradition in the annual audits, namely errors and deficiencies of the Ministry of Defence. Despite promises and assurances that critical aspects of the defence have been addressed, the National Audit Office for the fourth year in a row finds significant errors and shortcomings in the financial statements. The account of over 62.3 billion. kr is not authorised. The Committee sees the need to stress the responsibility of the Council of State for this, and that is all that needs to be said on that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2734	I want to start by commending the National Audit Office for carrying out a thorough and important work. Overpriced fees are, as the Riksaudition points out, some form of hidden taxation. We should avoid that. I take the feedback from the Riksrevision in the greatest seriousness. The Ministry has already taken action to address some of the weaknesses of the National Audit Office. The Court of Auditors points out, inter alia: that the Ministry of Finance should inform the Government budget of the amount of overpriced fees. In the proposal on taxes and charges for the 2021 budget, overpriced fees are mentioned in a separate chapter, detailing the charges and the amount of overprice. We will continue to do this in future budgetary documents. The national audit found that the State fee schemes were overpriced by 627 million. kr. This is a high number. At the same time, we are doing well and on our way to reducing overprice. Fees have gradually been reduced, including: on a proposal from this Government. On a proposal from the government, the budget for 2021 decided to reduce overprice by 326 million. kr. Since 2006, overpriced fees have been reduced by more than 2.4 billion in total. 2021 kroner. 900 million. SEK of this reduction has occurred in the period 2014-2021. The overall picture is that government fees are now set much more cost-effective than before, but in some areas there is still some overprice. The Ministry of Finance will therefore continue its efforts to reduce overpriced fees. The National Audit Office points out that a quarter of the fee revenue is wrongly presented as taxes and taxes rather than revenue when reporting species account information in the government accounts. According to the Riksrevision, it does not contribute to the consistency of governance information. I would like to stress that I am pleased that the audit report shows that all fee revenue is accounted for and reported to the government accounts on the same chapter and item as the income allocation, which is the governance level presented to the Storting. The criticism is therefore directed at the species account on which the fees are recorded in the accounts of enterprises. This is information which is also included in the reporting to the government accounts and which external users can obtain through the State Accounts portal.no. The Ministry of Finance has commissioned the Administrative and Financial Management Directorate, the DFOE, to follow up the species account use envisaged by the National Audit Office with a view to ensuring that this is carried out in a consistent manner by the 2021 financial statements.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2747	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2752	It is good that the Council of State explains that the accounting management of excessive charges is to be cleared up. That's some of what the Riksrevision has pointed to, and it's of course important, but the basic thing here is that the Storting's opinion is that the fee should only cover what it actually costs to produce the service. Therefore, my question to the Council of State is, When can we expect that to happen? From the Workers' Party's side, we added money to reduce too much charge in the State budget, and I wonder when the Council of State can promise us that the Storting's expectation that the fee will only cover the actual cost will become a reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2759	We obviously agree on the principle and how it should be, but let me just show that when the red-green government took over in 2006, the overpriced fees were 2.4 billion. 2021 kroner. So this was gradually reduced. We have continued to reduce the overpriced fees over the course of our government's term, overall in our period of 900 million. NOK 627 million. kr. So over the years, from 2006, we've decreased from 2.4 billion. NOK 627 million. So at least it's going in the right direction. As I underlined in my post, the Ministry of Finance and the Government will continue the work until we are in target, namely that the overpriced fees are properly priced.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2766	I thank you for the answer, but I did not ask for the history description, because I am familiar with it. When, for example, knows that young people who find it expensive to take a certificate pay 54 million. NOK too much to take the theoretical knowledge test in relation to what it actually costs to carry it out, I would say that there is an obvious place where it is not intended that the state should charge extra money. It is not primarily those who should be subject to an additional cost. The assumption of the Storting is that fees should cover the cost of providing the service, and my question was, When can we count on us being there – that people pay for the service they get, and not more than that?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2774	The representative, Andersen, is well aware that these are issues dealt with in individual budgets. I believe the history description is correct. When it is so strongly emphasised that the fees are to be properly priced, there is also a reason to point out that there has been a gradual decrease in overprice, and now we are getting closer to where we are going. We have tabled and adopted the budget for 2021. There are a few hundred million dollars left, and our ambition is to make sure that the fees are properly priced.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2779	I'm aware that things come into the individual budget, but when it's obvious, and pointed out by the National Audit Office, that people pay too much in relation to the service they get, there shouldn't be anything a user long time to step down, then there should be something an ender with. But I understand that I get no answer from the Council of State when the government intends to stop it. We are also going to follow it up in future budgetary procedures.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2784	It's deserving. Now I just showed that the red-green government was unable to reach goals in its eight years, but contributed to a gradual reduction in the overpriced fees. We've still worked that way, and there's still a few hundred million dollars left. I think we can jointly acknowledge that here, changing governments and large-scale numbers have made sure that the overpriced fees have come down, and that we are starting to approach where we are going to be, namely that the fees are priced as they should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2789	I just have to be allowed to comment that it's starting to be a few years since the red-green government went off, but we didn't feel like we were in the goal at all points. That's why we were looking for re-election. Unfortunately, we didn't, but we're going to do something about that for the autumn. And then we're also going to clean this up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2794	It's finally up to the voters to decide what kind of government we get from the fall of 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2799	We probably have a slightly different view of this with aggregation, efficiency and possibilities. Document 1 for 2020-2021, when it applies to both NIBIO and Health Networks, shows that aggregation has taken place, but savings have not come. Is it not a paradox that one is eager to merge and change, but does not fit into it so that one gets an effect out of it when one has first done it?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2804	Well, it's a true observation that neither the state nor the municipalities are good enough to gain from different structural reforms. Now, gains may occur in different ways; it is not always the case that profit realization involves reduced costs. There may be one way to realise gains, but it may also take the form of higher quality of the services to be provided. This is a problem that will be discussed in depth in the perspective communication presented by the government in mid-February, because there is no doubt that we will have tighter budgets in the years to come. The economic space for action is getting smaller, and that means that we need to be better at extracting benefits from different structural reforms and digitisation projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2811	But as the Riks revision points out, one has not been able to check out the effect of these things that are done. As long as you don't have measurement methods that allow you to check how things work, when the department doesn't follow up or can check your development and how it works, how can you improve it without having proper measurement methods?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2816	That's one of the questions we're working on to get in place, because we think that's right. It is very often that both government, growth and other levels of government are presented with great benefits from different projects, in particular digitisation projects, and then the benefits that were suggested do not come. There is no doubt that in the years to come, we need to be far better at extracting the benefits both through structural change and through digitisation projects. If we are to ensure more money for municipalities, kindergartens, schools, hospitals and roads, we also need to streamline the public sector and make sure that we get more for each krona and that we get gains when we implement that kind of project.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2823	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2828	In the revision for 2019, the National Audit Board has made a deep-seat in the management of labour market measures organised by the pre-approved organisers. It is worth noting that it is clear in the debate – these are not all the action organisers, these are the pre-approved action organisers. They primarily deliver what is called VTA and AFT. The most, most of these companies are owned by municipalities or public municipalities. A few are owned by ideals, e.g. Fretex, so it's not commercial companies like that. This is a follow-up to the previous year’s audit, where the National Audit Office looked at acquisitions of measures more generally. In recent years, the Directorate of Labour and Welfare has worked systematically to improve the management of grants to the pre-approved organisers of actions. It is a long-term work, and I have given in the 2021 letter of allocation the leadership of the department to further strengthen this work. The basis for the review we are examining today is based on the accounts of the action companies from the years 2017 and 2018. It is therefore natural that the recommendations of the previous audit, submitted in the autumn of 2019, are not reflected in the analyses submitted by the Riksaudition in this audit. The National Audit Office has found that Nav has not properly checked the requirements of the Pre-authorised Action Organizers’ Regulation. The requirements have been made to ensure that the State grants benefit participants. Nav’s control has been inadequate and therefore it cannot be excluded that State grants do not benefit action participants. It's worrying. As part of the audit, the National Audit Office has prepared a draft template for the preparation of a specific measure of accounting. This will improve the basis for Nav's control. The Directorate of Labour and Welfare has informed that they intend to ask the organisers of measures to deliver accounts following the draft Riksrevision. I follow this up through the governance dialogue. The national audit has analysed the annual accounts of 25 of the 58 activities organised in a group. The National Audit Office’s assessment is that, in many cases, values earned through grants for redeployment and permanent organised work do not accompany the action enterprises by reorganisation into groups. Assessing the allocation of equity by transformation into group models requires the entity to carry out relevant economic analyses of the accounts of the action enterprises. The experience of the department has been that this is demanding. I have asked that, in the event of future transformations into a group, the Labour and Welfare Act establish controls to ensure that the economic values generated by the measures continue to benefit the participants. However, the review by the National Audit Office shows that this is not just a matter of controlling the organisers of measures by the State of Labour and Welfare. The question is also whether the legislation on measures is adequately designed. The requirements for the pre-authorised organisers in today’s regulation are based on previous legislation back to 1993. The review carried out by the Welfare Service Committee in NOU 2020: 13 shows that none of the other welfare sectors have similar models. The organisational requirements of the Regulation are to a lesser extent adapted to the way in which public administration currently cooperates and interacts with external service providers. The availability of new service providers is low. As far as I know, few, if any, completely new suppliers have arrived in the last 25 years. The National Audit Office's analyses also show that although the legislation states that the company's profits will remain in the business and benefit from the re-employment and participants, the companies have overall seen a significant increase in equity, and it was in 2018 of several billion kroner. I have no reason to believe that the organisers want or try to use the funds in ways other than the legislation. This is an industry with a strong commitment for people who need help to get back to work or create a well-protected job. Most organisers are owned by municipalities or county municipalities. However, questions should be asked whether the organisation and funding of the action is in the best interests of the participants. The National Audit Office has recommended that the Ministry assess the appropriateness of current legislation. I would therefore like to consider other ways of organising the two actions organised by pre-authorised action organisers. I will first look at the measure Work-Preparing Training – AFT. I therefore intend to provide a consultation note on different alternative organisation of the action.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2852	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2857	It is possible that the Council of State got a little poor time in its contribution, because I had really expected that he had been a little more concrete when he spoke about that he would see in other ways to organize that kind of action, the AFT and the VTA, on. So my question to the Council of State is: has the Council of State in the hearing he mentioned also intended to raise the question of putting that kind of action on the tender?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2862	I really didn't get a bad time, I didn't mean to say anything about it. This is because this consultation is now being prepared in the Ministry. The aim of this will be to shed light on the different ways in which AFT can be organised – and those activities – which are better in line with the normal practice of the procurement regulations of the State. Before that hearing is over, and before we're done with it in the department, I'm not going to go into any details there. But I can see that we're going to light up several different alternatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2867	I thank you for your answer, and I can respect the fact that the Council of State does not want to flag what is going to appear in a hearing note that has not yet been prepared. But then I would rather have a question about the process when that consultation round is over. The Council of State itself recognised that these are the most important measures for a very vulnerable group in terms of the labour market. So when that consultation round is over, does the Council intend to raise that issue to the Grand Council, or does the Council intend to make that kind of decisions on its own?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2872	It all depends on it, to be absolutely honest. It is quite natural, of course, that such a big thing will be mentioned in, for example. budgetary documents, as a feedback on what the government is doing. But it really depends on what you might want to do. At the starting point, this is the requirement. The government is responsible for this, and it has also changed the way in which these measures are purchased in the past, both under this government and under red-green governments. There may also be some of the options that involve major issues, but it is simply too early to say anything about them. As I said, this is a follow-up, among other things. of what the Riksrevision has pointed out, and before the consultation document comes, I do not think it is right to address all the eventualities and speculations. Then, of course, Stortingen is free to deal with the matters they want.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2877	Governments well defined pre-authorised action organisers. They are owned by the public or by the ideal. So there's no point in making money on the business. Here the work is allocated; it does not happen by submitting a tender. The fact that the intervention companies have equity is positive, and I hope they use that equity for the benefit of the business. My question is: has the Department obtained a survey that concluded that VTA, i.e. permanently organized work, and AFT, i.e. work-preparation training, is purchased in violation of the Public Acquisition Act?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2884	In this work the Ministry has also obtained observations from the law firm Kluge. This has in itself happened in several rounds. There are also previous governments that have used the same law firm, I think, for the same kind of considerations. What's the question then, is to try to figure out whether this is an acquisition in the usual way. Some of the problems that the Riksrevision also poses are that this is initially organised as a grant, but if it is actually an acquisition, it can contribute to an unclear regulatory framework that is difficult to enforce and practice. So, as I said, there's a lot of ways to get out of it if you want to, and that's what a consultation note will light up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2891	Then it's the natural follow-up question what the law firm Kluge has come up with in the mind of the department. Has the law firm come to the conclusion that today's award, i.e. no tender, to these pre-authorised action organisers, who are non-profit-making or public, and non-profit, is contrary to the law on public acquisitions?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2896	Now I just want to say first that this is a little bit out of the question today, because it is the starting point of the Riksrevision's criticism. When I say there's going to be a hearing, it's to follow up what the Riksrevision has pointed out, and that the committee, as far as I understand, supports following up. The reason why I say that is simply that it is important to answer correctly and correctly when you get questions. So I think in this context I'm going to be careful to say that when the hearing comes, all of this will be well-explained – including external considerations and legal input that the government has received. But that is the way the Riksrevision also raises the same questions in its work, and there is at least some reason why the Riksrevision asks the Ministry to assess the appropriateness of today's legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2903	It's the state council that has opened this ballet. What the Riksrevision has pointed out is that there must be control, there must be consistency between the money being granted and the use of the money. Neither the National Auditor's Office nor the Committee has opened up to the State Council in its submission. The Council of State said that one had to consider alternatives, i.e. allocation alternatives, which were better in line with normal practice. It cannot be understood as anything other than a tender. Does the Council believe that labour market measures, follow-up and clarification can be successfully purchased by tender?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2910	Now there were some premises on the question that I don't agree with. Firstly, it is quite right that the main part of the Riksrevision's work is about checking whether these funds benefit the user. That is why it is not entirely unproblematic that businesses, i.e. groups or businesses, have large profits. Some of the problem is that when you reorganise into a group that has this part that delivers the AFT or, if necessary, the VTA, which does not make any dividends, you can have other parts – for example: run a labour-market café or other establishment, which many have probably visited — which may be more commercial. There are many ways to do this, but the answer to the question of whether measures can be put to tender is obviously yes. Today, most of our measures are being offered. There may not be all kinds of measures suitable for this, but there were changes to this also under the Red-Green Government, where the party of the representative Lundtigen was sitting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2918	Obviously there are many interesting discussions that Stortinget is going to take up in the extension of this national audit report, but it's probably best for professional committees, so I thought I'd ask some questions about the report itself. When the study reveals that Nav still does not have enough control over how the funds are used, and the Riksrevision finds it highly critical that Nav has not established enough controls, I would like to ask the Council of State what kind of overview the department has of the problem historically. Do you have an overview of what the money has been spent back in time? Do you have an overview, as the Council of State took as an example, of which actors or groups have other more commercially oriented activities?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2925	There is no – I know, at least – a detailed historical overview of this back in time. There is, of course, one of the most important criticisms of the National Audit Office, namely that there has not been a clear requirement for accounts to appear in such a way that it can be clearly seen that the money going to these two measures goes to the users of those measures and not to other things. It's also worth noting that these groups that are referred to here are groups that are largely owned by the municipality or county. Fretex is a major contributor here. When we talk about commercial business here, it will often be a type of business, like a café, which is also work training, but which has to be considered a commercial entity anyway. But control must be better than today, and I have also explained that. That's why it's important that the Riksrevision has done what it's supposed to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2934	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2939	As both the Court of Auditors and the Committee point out, the defence has received a revised report for the fourth consecutive year. It's a relationship I take most seriously. The rules shall be complied with in the defence sector. These relate to the allocation regulations, financial regulations, value added tax law and other laws and regulations. In 2016, the Defence put in place a new accounting system and went over to what is called periodic accounts. In addition, they introduced a new account plan, a new management system, and the Swedish Armed Forces Organisation was established. That is the background for having a modified report in 2016, 2017 and 2018. It was a big and comprehensive transformation, so we got comments about the business accounts. These conditions have been taken into account, and they have now been corrected and put in order. I'm very happy about that. For 2019 we are talking about a note that deals with what is called horizontal trade. The horizontal trade system was introduced, inter alia: to raise the cost awareness of the Defence Organisation, the Defence Logistics Organisation, the FLO, which makes the purchases on behalf of the Defence. The use of the FLO as a central and professional purchaser has led to a significant increase in efficiency and quality of defence procurement, while leading to considerable savings for the defence sector. The National Audit Office has now pointed out that the defence’s practice of horizontal trade is a violation of the rules on the granting of funds. Thus, the objective of long-term rational purchasing and stockbuilding is against the principle of cash and one-year financial regulation. The practice of horizontal trade is not new, but for the 2019 financial statements, the Riksrevision has found that there is a significant difference between what has been acquired and what has been consumed in the financial year. We are still in dialogue with the Defence for the financial statements for 2020. It is important for me to be clear that this is not a matter of lack of control, management or lack of accounting for the purchases. The challenge has been to find a solution to the accounting context of the government accounts between what is purchased by the FLO and the allocation of the budget chapters of the individual budget chapters of the different units of defence. The introduction of a common budget chapter for most of the defence-related holdings, as decided by the Storting in the 2021 budget, will help to address the challenges identified by the National Audit Office. In the light of the new chapter structure, we now see how horizontal trade can be handled within the legislation of the departments outside the new Community chapter. This applies, for example: Intelligence and rescue helicopter service. Four out of five comments on infringements of administrative legislation relate to the understanding of the VAT law. Following comments on infringements of this Act in 2018, the Ministry of Defence changed its practice in the sector accordingly. However, the risk of errors by restating the accounts of the Defence, Defence and Defence Buildings in the autumn of 2019 was assessed to be too large. As a result, the defence sector has received comments on breaches of administrative legislation for 2019 as well. VAT follows the turnover of goods and services between all activities in the defence sector and is fully incorporated in the accounts of activities for 2020. The last comment on breaches of administrative legislation concerns the lack of procedures and controls related to the budgetary disbursement authority and the order of the Defence Research Institute. We have followed up the relations pointed out by the Riksrevision in the Ministry of Defence's governance dialogue with the FFI. Both the follow-up of mandates and internal control procedures have been corrected in line with the comments of the National Audit Office and new procedures are in place for the financial year 2020. I am concerned with the enforcement of the legislation in the defence sector, and both the ministry and the departments experience the dialogue with the National Audit Office as constructive. The introduction of new business accounts is complicated, the defence has now cleared the business accounts, and solutions related to horizontal trade are being worked on. We will continue to stretch so that errors and defects are corrected, and so that we avoid a situation with repeated comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2960	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2965	It is good to hear clear promises from the Minister of Defense, from the Council of State, about fines and improvements, but for 2019 the total appropriation for the Defence was over 62 billion. NOK, and now we stand here for the fourth year when the defence accounts have material defects. Despite promises and assurances that critical circumstances will be addressed, we are left here, and the Committee sees need to stress the responsibility of the Council of State to ensure that the decision of the Storting is followed. My question is really simple: what is the difference between the promises now versus last year?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2972	Last year I didn't make any promises, because last year the things we had noticed in 2016, 2017 and 2018 were put in place. It was a complicated conversion, but we've been open that it took longer than a year to fix it. For 2019 there is another note, another case. We take it most seriously, and the conversion of chapter structure that we proposed in the state budget for 2021 is part of what we take to get in line with what the Riksrevision believes it should be. I have to point out that the representative's party voted against that conversion, but fortunately we got a majority for it, and that will give us a good tool to get this in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2979	I have a short and concrete question. Now, for years, we have experienced the same thing from the Ministry of Defence, on which the Minister of Defence was involved. Every year it's said that you take the Riksrevision's remarks very seriously, and you always have to do that. Now there's the last treatment of these kinds of cases in this period. Next year, there may be other people in the management of the control committee and possibly also in the department. The council said he was now working on the accounts for 2020. Then the question is: can we expect that for the first time, until the next year, we can avoid that the Ministry of Defence is the department that stands out for incorrect accounting?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2986	I have to admit that I have the perspective of the Council of State job that I am going to join the Prime Minister saying that I have to think of something else. So I might be standing here for next year also commenting. When references come, you have to grab hold of them. In terms of VAT, we're not supposed to do it in 2019. We had to go to 2020 to get it right, but it's okay now. With horizontal interaction, we look at what we're achieving for 2020, but the important thing we're taking is that we changed the chapter structure of the budget for 2021. Then we come within the framework and the guidelines in which the Riksrevision believes we should be. I dare not promise anything for 2020, simply because the report from the Riksrevision with comments came so late that we did not have time to do anything about 2020. But we're in there and we're looking at what we can do with 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2993	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e2998	I want to subtract the lines from the small exchange of lines that we had earlier in the case, and just state that there is nothing in the Riksrevision report or in the committee's proceedings that points to competitive outsourcing as the right follow-up of what the Riksrevision has pointed out in terms of the lack of control of grants for work-preparation measures and the permanent organisation of work. However, competitive outsourcing is not a new theme. We have discussed this many times before, and so far we have chosen – under changing governments – not to use tenders for that type of labour market measure. AFT is, for example, the largest measure in Nav for persons with particularly uncertain professional assumptions and, as several have pointed out, is provided by pre-approved action organisers with a framework agreement with Nav. The claim has been a dividend ban and that the companies should be in public ownership or ownership of the ideal. This has led to the fact that the companies today are the backbone of the sector dealing with employment and inclusion companies offering to the groups we are talking about here. It is not in the interests of enterprises, but in order to ensure the best possible offer to users, with individual adaptation, close to users and in close cooperation with local business. We have seen offers of other types of labour market action lead to standardisation, centralisation and, with the greatest needs, to a greater extent shifting out of supply. It would be disastrous for the users we are talking about here, so bids could have major consequences for those who are the target group for the AFT measure. It is a group that Stortinget has repeatedly said should be a priority. Formally, as the Council of State says, it is correct that this can be decided by regulation, but I want so much to ask the Council of State that before making decisions that can have dramatic consequences for the supply of these users, he takes a walk through Stortinget, so that we can have a broad discussion of future offers to vulnerable groups on the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e3008	The national audit revealed a lack of control of pre-authorised suppliers of labour market measures for 2018. It has to be fixed. That's the central party's position, seafaringly. The question is, how? ESA, the EFTA Surveillance Authority, checks whether Norway implements and complies with the rules of the EEA Agreement. ESA submitted a report in 2016 and, in order to act under State aid law, the action companies were to separate so-called commercial activities from work for the action participants. For example, language training was called commercial activities. Pre-authorised action enterprises are municipal or non-profit-making, as the Council of State said, and there are enterprises that do not have the purpose of operating profit. The authorities called for group organisation, i.e. the reorganisation and creation of new companies. The consequences were that in some cases property was transferred outside the primary activity of the company, and as far as I have an overview, the reorganisation took place on the advice of Nav. I expect affected Nav offices to have continuous and good contact with their ‘sine’ to say so, pre-authorised action companies, and that the money is not gone. There's an overall committee that says there's ‘strongly criticised that Nav has not established sufficient controls to ensure compliance with the rules of action and that the significant subsidies paid go to the objective.’ The centre party agrees with that. «Highly critical» is in circumstances that have less serious consequences but relate to matters of principle or importance. These are important points, and that is important as the Committee says, but we must not forget that, in this case, the action companies are, in reality, non-profit-making enterprises. The requirements of pre-authorised action organisers in the measure regulation are largely based on the requirements of the regulation which entered into force in 1993. It is therefore awarded – it is not a tender. In the setting, it is said: ‘The Committee meets the recommendations of the National Audit Board to assess the appropriateness of the current grant scheme’.» That's not what the Council of State said, he said: get a change 'that's better in line with what's normal practice'. I would recommend the Council of State to do what the representative Lise Christoffersen said, go to Stortinget before someone here makes changes. Thus, the Committee has not said a single word about changing the system from allocations to tenders. We are talking here about both work-preparing training, AFT, and permanent work, VTA. It is very demanding, and it is important that it takes place in a long-term way — yes, in an infinity perspective in individual municipalities, because these are important actions to be ‘ever’. It is the view of the Centre Party that we are clear against having tenders in these areas. These are demanding tasks and therefore they must be allocated to these non-profit-making companies, municipal, public or non-profit-making.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e3038	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e3055	At the request of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines with replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have signed up to the speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e3062	The National Audit Office’s examination of the effectiveness of national child protection authorities for children in child protection institutions is a very important feedback to all those responsible for or working in the field of child protection in Norway. Although national child protection authorities are the target of this study, it is important to bear in mind that the need for child protection assistance is based on children and young people, individual individuals in the middle of a family situation and the growing-up environment. All children and young people growing up in Norway shall have safe and healthy growing conditions, and those living under conditions that may harm health and development shall be provided with the necessary assistance, care and protection. Municipal child protection must then choose measures — either additional assistance where the children are, or a private or state child protection institution. It is a general principle that a person should give decisive attention to what is best for the child when choosing a measure, and financial considerations, resources or practical solutions should not govern the choice of the institution. Assessments shall be of how best to care for children who experience a care failure. However, the national audit report has revealed weaknesses in several areas: More children do not have their needs properly identified in the choice of child-rescue institution. Several children are not followed up well enough during their stay at a child welfare centre. The quality assurance system for paediatric protection institutions has not worked well enough. Infringements of procedures for the purchase of institutional premises increase the risk of expensive purchases and of inadequately taking into account the needs of children. Lack of monitoring and participation from the start will affect the rest of the course of child protection. It was alarming that the participants at the hearing disagreed on the location of the solution, depending on where in the protection of children they themselves were connected. It appears to be difficult to find a good, consistent and systematic involvement and follow-up of child-restraint children both before the choice of interventions and during institution placement. Of course, a good follow-up during their stay in an institution is also very crucial to ensure that they have the right actions and help both with education and with good activities in association with others through good action plans for individuals. It is also pointed out that many of the young people in the institution have complex challenges and that follow-up to mental health care has been deficient. It is serious that Bufetat’s follow-up has not been designed to ensure the development and future of children living in institutions. It is therefore positive that there is now a cooperation with the Health Directorate to look at a package for mental health and drug monitoring. A Joint Committee considers that it is essential that national child protection authorities should address the situation and ensure adequate assessments and follow-up of children’s needs if this is lacking and that the children should not become the losers in a waiver of responsibility between the State and the municipality. The National Audit Office’s report goes on to point out that there is a lack of practice both in the reporting and quality assurance of institutions and in the procurement of institutional premises. This could, of course, result in the wrong choice of place for children and young people, which the child-restraints themselves report as the reason for too many shifts along the way in an increase in child-restraint. It can't be like that. It is no surprise that the Committee's comments show different views on who should own and operate child protection institutions – the state, non-profit institutions or other private drivers. That is what I expect others to comment on, and it should be a matter of course immediately afterwards, which will probably also deal with that debate. However, the report does not say anything about this as a reason for the weaknesses that have been revealed. The Committee endorses the recommendations of the National Audit Office that the Ministry of Children and Family should provide: adapted to the needs of each child; involvement of the child there is sufficient evidence: that there are good plans for the development of children they are provided with the necessary mental health care; Bufetate follows quality and ensures good single purchase It is good to be able to state that the Council takes the findings seriously and will use the report as an important contribution to the ongoing quality improvement work. Action has been taken and new measures will be put in place to ensure good services for children in child protection institutions. They deserve that!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e3118	First, thank you to the rapporteur for a thorough work and to the Committee on Good Cooperation, which we always use to have. In Norway, we assume that all children should be safe and sound, that everyone should have the same opportunities, and that we should take care of those who are vulnerable. Unfortunately, there are many children in this country who experience care failure, who are subjected to violence, and who live in direct insecurity. We are agreed in Stortingen that these children should receive the necessary help, care and protection. It has also emphatically established the Child Protection Act. The National Audit Office's examination of child protection institutions and whether government authorities ensure the best for the children in them has been a little sad reading, I think. The choice to place a child in a child protection institution is one of several measures used in this country, but what is incredibly important is that the provision given to a child should be adapted to the individual needs of the child. To end up in an institution, we all understand that it is demanding, and for the most vulnerable, it can be a heavy experience. Therefore, high quality requirements and expectations are set and needs are actually met. The National Audit Office itself says in its report that the reason they started a survey was that several serious incidents have been discovered in recent years in several child protection institutions. I'm glad the Riksaudition took that job of going through, because the findings they're coming with actually give a great deal of concern. They say that the needs of more children are not well enough identified when choosing an institution. That is, children end up in an institution that is not necessarily for their benefit. At the same time, it is pointed out that children have the right to be heard and to participate in their own case, but it has been found that there are many cases where this does not happen and where there is no evidence on the choice of institution. The national audit has revealed that many children are not being properly followed up. For example, they have found that in 17 out of 25 private institutions, there is a lack of action plan for the child, which is an important and central part of the follow-up itself. We see the same thing about follow-up plans. It's not followed up well enough. Reference is made to the fact that in 20 out of 25 private placements there are large gaps. We also know that there are shortcomings in state institutions. The National Audit Office states that there is not enough quality assurance for child protection institutions, which is very worrying. Given the quality we expect for the vulnerable kids that are placed there, it's worrying. The fact that children do not receive proper care and treatment at the same time as there may be an entire offer they actually receive also gives cause for concern. The National Audit Office has found out that there has been a breach of procedures in the purchase of institutional premises, which I fear makes the needs of the young people back in their homes, because it is especially about single purchases for children who have very complex and complex needs. We all know here that there's a discussion about it with single purchases, for example. on the competitive situation of single purchases actually works, that there are quite a few players who have most of the market, as well as seeing an increase in foreign players in recent years. The National Auditorate will provide a number of advice to the Ministry of Children and Family. On the part of the Labour Party and on the part of the entire Committee, we expect these to be followed up, and we also note that the Council of State answers that he takes the report seriously. When the committee consulted, the Children’s Ombudsman was concerned that municipalities need to be better able to do their job, and addressed it with both competence and resources. KS was concerned that the municipalities should have good tools and also more influence over the locations. For the Workers' Party, it has been important for municipalities to be guaranteed both responsibility and resources for a long time, so that they can do their job well. It was a signal we also received from several others who participated in the hearing. The National Association for Children's Protection has met at two hearings as long as I've been on the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, and they always make a strong impression, because they know what they're talking about, but also what's needed. I expect the government to follow up on their perception of the importance of providing children with sufficient participation, which the Riksrevision has revealed is not the case. They point out that when monitoring, selecting places and implementing residence in institutions, it is precisely that the children themselves have to contribute very much. I think we have to listen to the National Children's Protection Association, because they deserve it. I look forward to the follow-up to this report. The children we are set to protect deserve it to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e3146	It's almost three years since I left as Minister for Children and Gender Equality, with the primary responsibility for child protection, and this is actually the first time I've been participating in a child protection debate since that. It was one of the greatest responsibilities I got the privilege to have, but it was also the most rewarding and most difficult I worked with, because it was about the vulnerable children and the young people and those who have it the most difficult. One of the most important things for me in that job was how we could avoid children being subjected to violence, abuse and care failure. That work is always done in municipalities, whether in a health centre, in kindergarten or in school, in the community, where you can see if there are children who are hurting. The important thing is to talk to the kids. When the situation is such that a child cannot grow up with his or her own family, the state takes over that responsibility. Then it is serious when, as state authorities, we are unable to carry out the parental task that we are set to do. That is what this report is about. The report is serious, because it is alarming when we do not have the power to offer children and young people a better offer than they had. Once again, a child experiences a betrayal, a betrayal that in many cases has serious consequences for a young life. I have often asked myself the question: What is going on – is it more competence, more money, change in the law? What is it that makes the Storting repeatedly adopt laws and say very clearly and clearly about, both in the big news and in the laws, that children should be involved and heard, but still it does not happen out there? I know that the government is following up a good job, as this government has done since 2013. Work is under way on skills — a major reform to strengthen the skills of those working with children and young people. It works with authorization. A major child protection reform has been adopted, and I am very pleased that the consultation showed that the project to give the municipalities a greater responsibility was very successful. It's still something I've learned, and it's that things take time – but the kids don't have time. The size changes, and then it has to go out to those who work on it. The recommendations that the Riksrevision makes, I expect the Council of State and the Government to take along with them in the further work. When we talk about institutions, and that the choice of child protection institutions is to be adapted to the needs of each child, I just get bored when I hear that it results in a discussion about whether it should be a private, non-profit or public institution. If you talk to a child or a youth, they don't care what kind of company it is, or how the institutions are run, as long as they get the help and care they need. It must be the most important thing for us to be able to give those children. When the municipality sits and talks to the child or youth and is asked to identify what the child or the youth needs, Bufetat and the State must listen to them to find the institution that the child or youth needs. Adequate documentation of the assessments to be used for the treatment or care to be given to the child must also be available. There's plenty of evidence to show why a child had to leave a family, but why aren't we as good at documenting what we want the child to have at the other end? That's an important point of the Riksrevision too. We have to make an individual plan for the individual child. Psychiatric health has also been addressed. Very many children in child protection are struggling with mental health. The mental health sector is to provide treatment, and child protection is to provide care, and I am very pleased that the Minister of Health and the Minister of Children have started an important work on this, which needs to be followed up and strengthened. There are now two institutions to follow up the children who really need child protection and those who work with mental health to work together. With regard to this report from the Riksrevision, I can't say that there were many surprises there, but it was still sad to read, because it shows that we still haven't made it. Children and young people who are to take part in their case must receive the help and care they deserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e3169	I would like to thank the Court of Auditors for this important report, and I would like to thank the President-in-Office for their good cooperation in this matter. We've had a slightly different point of view, but we've been able to write us together for a wise wholeness in the setting. It eats up the children who have to live their lives in a child-rescue institution. The case is about how the public takes care of the best for the children before and while they are in the institution. These are children who have had a hard time and who have lived with a serious failure in care in the world. That's the purpose of the lives of these children matters. The children themselves have to be involved in influencing the choices that the public takes about where and how they will live their lives when the world fails. Adults must learn that children have knowledge of their own lives to which adults must listen. Kids need time to understand what's going on in their lives. It is necessary to monitor both the physical and mental health of young people in order to assess what is best for them. It's not like that today. In the report, the Riksrevision described this as plans and documents that are missing in the case management. I think there might be too many plans and documents in child protection. I believe a cleanup in the number of documents might come in handy. Child protection should listen to the children, monitor their health, and evaluate what is best for the individual child before making public choices on behalf of the children. This shall be documented by the Child Protection Service. That's what's at the heart of a good child's protection. To make an assessment of what is best for a child in crisis is a demanding task. To this end, we must strengthen the crew, the working environment and the knowledge of the child-restraint principle in both the state and the municipality. The people who work there can capture the needs of the children where they are. If the judgements in the municipalities are not good enough, it is up to the government to make the necessary assessments of the institutions. Child protection is available for children. If the job is not done, the local government cannot blame each other. In the hearings in the committee, we got a lot of recordings. I noticed, like several others, the child-restraints and their obvious role in the matter. What bothered me was that the stand of the different people who were listening was very marked by where they put themselves. That's not good. I noticed the many roles of Bufetat, and I'm not sure if Bufetat is able to do all the different things, both to distribute, evaluate and run institutions in child protection. It requires a special awareness of handling these roles and greater self-criticism than what I saw in my hearing. There are several reasons why we have not yet completed the discussion on child protection. The Committee has agreed that this report is one of many control reports which sees challenges in the follow-up to child protection, surveillance and quality. As long as we don't get this done, we haven't taken good enough care of our children in a serious crisis. Therefore, cork government councils may be satisfied with the measures before we know that the work in child protection is good enough for the children to be in debt.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e3186	I would like to start by thanking the National Audit Office for a very important report and thanking the rapporteur and the committee for their good work on the report. It's very nice that the committee has gotten used to having a hearing on the National Audit Office's reports on child protection, that we focus a little extra on this particular field. It's very nice. The National Auditor comes with several disturbing findings, but there's also a lot here that parties on the Stortinget, the Children's Ombudsman, the Child Protectors themselves, the employees and ideal child protection actors, to name a few, have taken up several times. First of all, I think it is worrying that the Riksrevision in its final comment sees itself as having to stress that the Council of State is responsible for the whole of child protection and coordination between the different parts of the service. This is reflected in an ongoing debate on the provision of child protection services, including: The Children's Ombudsman has stated that it is the government, the Council of State, the Grand Council that is responsible for ensuring that children are granted their rights under the Children's Convention. Although the problem resolution has been delegated to the municipalities, the responsibility is not delegated and there is an important difference. I'm very pleased that the National Auditor has looked at this with a single purchase of institutional space in child protection. It is a technical concept that individual offers are made to each child. The children themselves and the ideal actors, among other things, believe that this is a very bad way to organise the service. Yeah, that's pretty cool, really. The size has, among other things, In this context, a few years ago the government asked to reduce the practice of single purchases, but we see that practice has not declined. About 30 pst. of all days spent in child-restraint services are linked to single purchases, and this has remained – stable – in recent years. The national audit also shows in the report that the costs related to this tender have exploded, more than doubled, during the investigation period. One of the reasons for this is that the offer to the state Children's Protection Institutes and the private actors we have agreed to with is not good enough, it is not appropriate. Therefore, in accordance with other decisions taken by the Stortinget, the capacity of the public and the ideal offer must be strengthened in the future. SV believes that this form of tender should be completely abolished. So I'll do a little visit to the representative Horne, who asked us to talk to children to see if they care what kind of company they get help from. Then I can ask the representatives in the Chamber to talk to the National Children's Protection Association, for example, who are quite clear that they do not want profit motives in this service, because it is about children, not the store. But it is on the side of this matter – it is absolutely true. What is at issue is that good information on children’s needs is essential for the choice of the right action. The study shows that 11 pst. the Bufetat intake advisors informed that they did not have sufficient information to assess the risks and needs of the children before they were placed, at their previous location, and they point out that the lack of information from the municipalities, the municipal child protection service, is one of the main reasons for this. It is serious and shows the importance of upgrading the municipal child protection service. The Children’s Ombudsman has an important role to play in introducing requirements for the best assessment of an entire child to accompany the child, and not least the professional organisations and again the National Association for Children’s Protection plays an important role in improving the staffing of the services, so that employees have time to help their children and time enough to provide the necessary information. It supports SV. Finally, perhaps the most important thing: the participation of children. After the Children's Convention, all children have the right to participate in their lives, and we know that the help will only be good if the children are also included, well involved in the choice of institution and the design of the along-the-way arrangements in the institution. It is then alarming that in several cases the Riksrevision does not find evidence that the legal participation takes place. On questions to – again – the National Association for Children’s Protection at the hearing on whether it is mainly due to lack of reporting or non-participation, they said, worryingly enough, that their experience is non-participating. I think we need to listen to that and take it seriously. It shows that we still have a lot to do when it comes to letting the children contribute to their own lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e3207	I and the Left would like to thank the case-speaker and the Committee for good and constructive cooperation in a very important but also very boring and sad matter. Thanks also to the National Audit Office, which in turn has revealed that public child protection is not yet working well enough, and that there are still children and young people who, when they are in a desperate situation, do not get good enough follow-up. We can't have it like that. It is very serious that the Riksrevision finds that the requirements for participation documentation are not in the vicinity of being complied with. The Court of Auditors has several recommendations on what to do in order to improve its position. The short version is about children and young people actually being able to participate, and there is sufficient evidence on the choice of interventions and institutions, and not least on the development and life situation of the child. It is not only serious, but also heartbreaking when the National Association for Children's Protection in the Hearing refers to participation, or the lack of participation, such as: "because we're sitting on a lot of knowledge about ourselves that adults need to know about in order to help us in a good way, and also because we need to experience that we have a finger in the game. We must experience that what is happening is understandable, and that our integrity is safeguarded by our voice being heard. These are quite basic human needs.» In the committee we are fortunately and naturally agreed to stand behind the recommendations of the Riksrevision. So we all know, as the listening round showed, that very many of the actions are about available and enough resources, manning and competence. If we are to include one essential additional point that the Riksrevision has repeatedly criticised, namely cooperation between the State and municipal child protection, this is also a question of how we have organised child protection and distributed legal competences and authority between the state and the municipal level, thus creating a reasonably unnecessary bureaucratic time- and resource-tapping sharing of child protection. As you can see, the secrets of the Fäder municipality are very encouraging. As an experimental community, Fäder has taken over several of the government's tasks. It gives the municipality the opportunity to set up the Child Welfare Service to ensure participation and participation in new and better ways, among other things by allowing the young to attend and choose an institution. It really makes sense. If you give the municipalities, the first line service, almost total responsibility for the resources and competences required, you also eliminate what the completely unnecessary, resource-losing and responsible powder separation, the two-segment division, entails. For that reason, Left and I are very pleased that a plurality in the committee is so clear about asking questions about today's organisation is the most important way to drive child protection. The Committee proposed that this be followed by a real distribution by the government. The left is also pleased that the Committee is so united and clear when it comes to the competence requirements and training of child protection staff, and whether it meets the needs better than today, and that the Committee is so clear that in this context it must be considered to introduce a five-year master training programme for child protection services. All children and young people growing up in Norway shall have safe breeding conditions. Children have the right to be heard. The report discovered that we are not yet there. This is how a great responsibility rests on both the Stortinget and the government for the fact that far more children than today are experiencing it. The report to the Court of Auditors is, unfortunately, useful in this way. When the Storting decided today to send the ball to the government, I suggested that we be able to follow up with concrete measures, which would be more appropriate for those in debt.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e3237	I would like to thank you for your contributions. I would first like to state and stress that I take seriously the findings made by the National Audit Office. Both this report and the comments of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs will provide us with important input into the institutional field in the future. Then I would also say that much of what is revealed by the National Audit Office is weaknesses that will have been known for Bufetat and for the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs from before. Now the representative Solvency Horne has also made his contribution, and when I got into the chair about two years ago, I saw that there were many reports and orders that had been made precisely because you had concerns about this and found some faults, and so a lot of work was started. So important steps have already been taken to improve the provision of institutions and child protection in general – before the period in which there has been a revision, and not least in the last two years, where I have been, there has been a lot of happening in this field. I believe that what has been done, and what we're going to do in the future, will improve the quality of the offer. But as several people stress: there are complex processes, and therefore it also takes a long time to see the effect of the important grips being taken. All children and young people growing up in Norway must have safe and healthy growing-up conditions. The Child Protection Act shall ensure that children and young people living under conditions that could harm their health or development receive the necessary assistance, care and protection — and in a timely manner. The law will help children and young people meet with security, love and understanding, and ensure that all children and young people have good and secure growth conditions. At that time, the provision of institutions is an important component in the success of this. We have strengthened children's right to participation in recent years. The right to be heard is made visible by the Child Protection Act and new legal documentation requirements are to strengthen the real right to participation. New referral forms shall improve information on the child’s needs and the child’s views. There is also an in-service interview and clarification meeting for all children entering the institution. Digi Children’s Protection will also help to strengthen evidence of effective participation. The needs of children must be adequately investigated before they are settled. Our proposals on skills requirements, as well as improved provision of continuing education and training, will contribute to this. We also have several measures to better monitor the mental health of children in child protection. I have recently sent out a consultation note on multi-disciplinary monitoring of children to be placed outside the home, and the Stortinget has granted 25 million. kr for this purpose in 2021. Buffetate has put in place a comprehensive management and internal control system. An important measure is a standardised trajectory. It shall improve the content and documentation of the treatment and development aid provided by the institutions. That it's called standard trajectory may sound a little bit like A4, but it's just about creating a trajectory for each and every child, and adapting it to each and every child. Clear objectives shall be set for the stay and important content of youth, such as family or network, schooling and health. All of this has to be closely followed up. In addition, I would like to stress that the Ministry is scheduled to present the bill on new child protection laws to the Stortinget in the spring of 2021. A new child protection law shall contribute to strengthening the legal certainty of children and parents in child protection matters. The law shall be a more accessible and timely law, with a strengthened child perspective focusing on early action. In this proposition, I also want to include a message part for the Storting on the development of the institutional offer in general. So much of the important thing that is being pointed out in this matter is something the Storting gets the opportunity to both discuss and make changes to already spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e3256	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e3262	There were many things the council took up in their posts. He mentioned that there have been challenges in child protection over time, and that when making changes, it takes some time to get them implemented and have an effect on it. Among other things, he said that you have been given the right to participate in the law, but that will not necessarily mean that there will be changes tomorrow. However, I am thinking of a little shorter term, because in the hearing we had, the municipalities were a big topic, both in terms of resources, staffing and competence. Many municipalities are yelling for more resources, just to be a better first line and to be able to get hold of this closest to where children live. So I wonder if the Council of State can say a little bit about what he thinks about the resources of the municipalities in terms of child protection, because at least it worries me.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e3267	I fully share the representative's view, and just to underline it: When I say that things are complex and take time, it is clear that some of what I have great faith in is the level of competence that I think the Stortinget is going to join, both that it has been a continuing education for a long time, but also greater requirements for education in order to work, among other things. in institutions. But it'll take some time to implement it, and we're also going to put it in quite gradually, so that one doesn't end up lacking people to be able to work in these important functions, but that one is going to strengthen it all the time. It'll take some time. What has made me happy in the last few years is to see that the municipalities actually take a big responsibility for hiring more people. There has been a large increase in the number of employees. Now I take it a little bit on my mind, but I think it's almost 1 400 years just the last six to seven years. So the municipalities are busy strengthening the crew. There's actually also some decrease in the number of cases, so that's also the possibility to be able to work more on each case. This is very important. They need time, and they need skills to make good judgements and to follow what is also in the law, in order for children to be properly met.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e3276	I thank the Council of State for a thorough answer. I think there are a lot of people in Stortinget who are looking forward to the presentation of the new Children's Protection Act. I have a question about that, because there was a majority here on the Grand Council to put down a sample to look at legal certainty in the area of child protection. Can the Council of States take up some of the status of that work?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e3283	That's exactly what we're in the final phase with. It's true, as the representative says, that a wanted expert committee. Before that, I had notified a NOU about exactly institutional child protection, because it's one of those areas where I think it's extra important to get good insights into what's going to be the best thing to develop an institution child protection that's adapted to time. What one has seen over a long time – and the representative of the Supreme Court was involved in this with a single purchase – is that there are more complex issues, children who may need even more tailoring and more employees around them. So the gradual development that has been in institutional child protection, we want to look at with extra magnifying glass. Together with the mission that Stortinget has given, we want experts to look at legal certainty and strengthen it. We are now working in the final phase, as I said, both with mandate and with finding people. So hopefully the sample is dropped within a reasonable time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e3292	When the National Audit Office shows that the current documentation requirements are not met in practice, how should the introduction of multiple forms improve this?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e3297	I think that was a good question. To make it easier, I believe – as I have been involved in both my answers in the hearing and now – that, for example. something like DigiBarnevert, getting a systematized setup, e.g. digital, will make it easier. The fact that employees have a good schedule to follow does not mean more work, I think – it means more transparent ways to work. One is also forced to think, Have I remembered to involve the child? Have I completed this conversation? What the Riksrevision also refers to is that the documentation has been too poor, so this also forces documentation. But there may be cases where children have actually been heard without it being documented. I believe that it is important that it is documented as well, but the most important thing is that it is actually talking to the children, so it must not be that a store form is just to be filled in. The important thing is that it actually does, and I believe that this will also help them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e3304	Something I also mentioned in my article instead, is this with how different the perception of the situation is in the different organisations that were listening. I ask myself if Bufatat has been such a big team that too much effort is being used inside the floor, in the place to focus on the individual kid. Have we created an organization that is actually so demanding to operate that internal struggles and the struggle between them and the municipalities, instead of using the forces on the individual child, are a challenge?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e3309	I have thought a lot about whether the organization can be done in a better way, and it may well be that the answer is yes. At the same time, something strikes me when one follows the different solutions: that very often you solve something, but then you create some new problems. Take, for example: The Children's Ombudsman, who talks about the state, that the state should take over everything. It will solve some obvious problems, but then you lose the important preventive early response bit that I think many of the municipalities are very good at. And that's how you could still do it. But this sample we're now putting down will get a mandate that's reasonably open. There will of course be some limitations, but we are committed to looking at legal certainty. I'm absolutely sure that it might also come to mind. Overall, I think there is a lot that is good in the way we organize. But then there is just this flow of information from the municipalities, which knows each child best and what needs they have, and to Bufetat, who knows what institutions we have and what offers you can actually give. Making these talk together to give the best possible match is very, very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e3316	Thank you to the Council of State for a very good post. I will again address this as the Riksrevision mentions in its final comment, where they stress that the Council of State and the central authorities – to say the like, including us here at Stortinget – are responsible for the whole of child protection and coordination between the different parts of the service. The reason why I deal with it several times is that this has been a debate on several issues related to child protection in recent times. What I want to ask the Council of State first is whether he can clearly state from the pulpit here that the municipal child protection service – all parts of the service, really – is his responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e3323	I can confirm that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e3328	Thank you for that. It's very important. I also encourage the Council of State to keep things fresh in mind when meeting other challenges in child protection. The study shows that there is a lack of information. Bufeta’s input advisors also show that a main explanation of the lack of information from municipalities is not available, and without sufficient information it is difficult to get the right help. How, then, will the Council of State – with previous answers fresh in mind – take responsibility for the strong enough municipal child protection service in all municipalities to obtain sufficient information on the needs of children? What the Children’s Ombudsman has recorded is not a requirement to do everything state-wide, but to introduce new requirements, such as: the best rating of the child written in full. And how does he deal with what the Swedish Children's Protection Association and the trade unions have said about manning and that the state should take greater responsibility for guaranteeing a good enough manning in all services?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e3338	Now there were many things that I can't answer in one minute, but let me grasp what I think is going to be very important. We don't have to take the debate on manning standards and earmarked positions, because there's a different view. We both agree that a promise is needed, and I believe that the municipalities have taken responsibility now. But I think a lot of this is also about competence. The debate has focused on whether to require the minimum number of persons to work in the field of child protection. It's an interesting debate. I think there are many municipalities that serve to have IKS and cooperate on it, but at the end of the day I think it's also a lot about competence. If you have been trained to ask the right questions, do the thorough investigations, document this and ensure that you do a good job and that you have time to do that job, then I think the result will be much better. This is what we're going to be discussing now in addition to the spring with the new Child Protection Act, but I think, as I said, that competence is the key I'm going to draw out that I have the most faith in, along with that one has enough employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e3347	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e3354	It was good to hear the Council of State say that organisation should be part of the mandate of the new Committee of Experts. I would like to thank the Riksrevision for their report. It is important, and not least useful, in the ongoing debate on how to improve our child protection. Unfortunately, the findings are also a serious reminder that we have a long way to go in securing all children and young people under the care of child protection, participation, a safe base and a good and proper follow-up. There is a great deal to be taken into account in the findings of the national audit report — from lack of resources to problematic organisation. In this article, I will focus on one point in particular. One of the findings of the report shows that Bufetat places children in institutions without adequate information on the needs of the child. In other words, buffetate often does not have enough information about the child to choose a child protection institution that will give the child the best possible offer. On several occasions, the centre has recently arranged for a statutory health survey on pre-care somatic and mental health of children. We believe that this is absolutely necessary in order to strengthen the rights of children in child protection and to ensure early detection and investigation of relief needs. But unfortunately, the centre party has not been given the bulk of the population on a law-enforcement. The government has recently sent a proposal for a change to the Child Protection Act proposing the establishment of a multi-disciplinary health monitoring offer. What is remarkable in that proposal is that the government clearly believes that it is in keeping with mere discretionary considerations as to whether such a health monitoring is necessary. It's incredibly disappointing. Extensive research and reports show that health monitoring is essential in order to provide appropriate tailored services. When Health Directorate and Buffdir were commissioned by the Ministry to investigate the need to legislate on child protection services in order to carry out the health surveillance of children assessed moved out of the home, both Directorates also concluded that health monitoring – somatic, mental and dental – should be carried out absolutely, preferably already before the child is moved out of the home. So how does the government follow this up? Well, it is suggested that both the municipal child protection service and the Bufetate only make discretionary assessments as to whether there is a need for health monitoring – discretionary assessments! In the case of Bufetat, the government proposes rules, not regulations, as it should have been, while the municipalities only have a statutory obligation to assess whether there is a need for a health examination. If the government believes that municipal economy will then not affect the municipality's assessments of the need for health monitoring, I think they are naive, and it is difficult for me to see how such a passive approach to the need for monitoring will strengthen the rights of children's protection, not least when we put the findings in the report we are now debating, on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e3369	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e3386	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e3393	Over the last few years, the Committee has examined several proposals relating to offers, profits and the use of commercial and non-profit actors in the field of child protection. I thought first of all that I should mention some of the decisions that the Stortinget has taken, to which the majority of the committee refers in the consideration of this matter. The size has e.g. agreed that the government should ensure long-term and ongoing agreements with non-profit institutions serving households, leading to an increase in the proportion of non-profit institutions serving households to around 40 pst. by 2025, while not reducing the public share of institutional places. During this period, the size has also adopted proposals to ask the government to reduce the practice of single purchase in the protection of children. The majority has asked the government to look at employees' working conditions in a commercial and non-profit way, to mention something. Then the representative, Mr. Bears Moxnes, has made a proposal to ask the government to submit an escalation plan to liquidate the child protection system, which I expect the various parties to explain their views. On behalf of the SV, I can say that we support the proposal. We have made similar proposals in the past where we have also asked for us to get away from a system where it is allowed to take profit from a service that deals with the care and protection of children. That's one part of it. The second part, which is also closer to that proposed by the representative Moxnes, concerns the tendering system itself, because the provision of services in the field of child protection is unnecessary and works poorly. The message we get, for example. by the non-profit actors, it has become more difficult to cooperate with the public because now, with this regime, things are treated as business secrets. It is bad for a service such as child protection, where we have historically had ideal actors who have been involved and developed the overall offer, in cooperation with the public. That's the way it should be. Then I expect the representative of Moxnes to take up his proposal, but I can tell the SV’s group that I recommend that we vote for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e3406	The best of children means that children and families are given timely help, with the right skills and with proper action. There's no news that Red puts similarities between quality and who delivers the service. There is a little ‘repeat’, whether it concerns the provision of services to older people living at home, the free choice of treatment in the specialist healthcare service, private kindergartens, private provision in schools or now child protection. Thesis is that quality, diversity and service innovation are best addressed by public authorities. So the starting point is the organisation of the service – not the user of the service. Right will always work for a diversity of welfare services – public, non-profit and private. I'm glad that the government is constantly working to improve the quality of the institution's provision for children's protection. It is the quality of service that is crucial for who receives a tender. Of course, we want to improve the provision of institutions and, not least, reduce individual measures, and we are not opposed to increasing the ideal proportion of institutional child protection. But we're against the principle of winding up the private ones. The procurement rules have been amended to facilitate the use of NPISHs. The Community institutional space reference form has been revised in order to better address information on the needs of the child and the child’s views. We hear from the National Audit Office's report here that we still have a way to go. We have a high-quality child protection system, Digi Child Protection, which means that case handlers are going to go through different stages of a child protection case and offer a better offer. Fortunately, most children receiving child protection do not come to an institution, but get good help from the municipalities in foster homes — and they are private. The number of children and young people receiving child protection has increased in recent years. 55,000 children received child protection assistance in 2019, of which about 1000 live in an institution. Child protection has been criticised by many teams, and we have received several judges in the EMD where parents have been supported in complaints about child protection decisions. Reports from the National Audit Office – as we have heard here today – and the Health Inspectorate point out that there is a need for competence in the service and better respect for the rights of children in care transfers, and the need for effective action. We have to deal with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e3419	The Nordics most believe that tax-funded welfare services should operate in such a way that funding goes unabated to child protection, school, kindergarten, care for the elderly, etc. They don't do that today. Unfortunately, the welfare sector is being commercialised at an increasing pace and child protection has now become a commercial market. It loses the children, the employees, the private ideal actors and the community. The centre party therefore believes that it is high time to scrap the tendering system in the child protection system, and here we stand with Red. In a tendering regime, it is fast too much to provide a service as efficiently as possible and to keep costs down, and human needs are quickly becoming invisible. The current tendering system can therefore lead to unnecessary, short-term care measures and constant relocations, which may impair the safety, stability and participation of children and young people. The centre party wants safe, predictable and creative good services, so we have programmed that child protection services should be operated mainly by the public and private ideal actors, and we will then work for framework conditions that ensure this. I would also like to remind you that when we discussed the Workers' Party's proposal for an ideal and public child protection in May 2018, the Minister and the rest of the Christian People's Party voted with us in the opposition to increase the proportion of non-profit actors in the institutional spaces to 40 p.m. by 2025. Three years have passed since the decision of the Storting, but the government is still unable to show concrete results in terms of the increase in the ideal share and the corresponding reduction in the commercial share. This is too bad — and the only government in March 2020 sent out the consultation note ‘Room conditions for private providers of child protection’, a follow-up to a notified review of these framework conditions. In the consultation note, the government itself identified several challenges in the use of private service providers. I quote: ‘Compared with other areas of service, the use of private providers in the protection of children is not regulated. The quality assurance of services has been largely entrusted to the individual child protection service and to Bufetat in the context of the procurement processes. At the same time, child protection as a service area is characterised by particular vulnerable users and interventional measures, with particular features that may make it difficult to purchase correctly even in the case of correct purchases.’ In other words, the government actually admits that competition doesn't work well in child protection, but so little happens to change it. Finally, in the vote, the Central Party proposes that we ask the government for an obligatory plan to phase out the tendering regime in the field of child protection. We share the point of view of the proposer and we broadly agree, but we are very concerned with the small private individual service providers, because they are a positive supplement. That is why we are promoting our own proposal to improve this group. With that explanation, I'm addressing the proposal of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e3443	Then the representative of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e3448	The Christian People's Party is very concerned that we have good services for vulnerable children and young people, and in the last year child protection issues have been one of the most debated by our committee in this Chamber. That's very good, because we need the continuous conversation about how to create a better child protection. I also feel that the parties in the committee together are concerned about what is best for the child in these matters. Then we have a different view of the solutions and who will provide the services. The Christian People's Party is for a diversity of suppliers. We do not avoid private actors doing an important job in child protection, both for the state and for the municipalities, and not least we are very concerned about strengthening the role of non-profit actors. That is why we are pleased that in recent years the proportion of institutional services offered by ideal providers has increased in line with government policy. At the same time, it is important to maintain that the public is responsible for child protection, and so private actors must be used properly. That is why, in the context of the treatment of new child protection laws, we are now going to clarify which tasks private can assist, and not. Proposals for changes have been in consultation, and finally legislative proposals will be sent to the Stortinget during the spring. These changes are important in order to ensure the legal certainty of children and families, and they should also make it easier for both countries and municipalities to control both the content and the costs of the services provided by private operators. But we don't imagine a child protection sector that can be run completely without the good private providers, and last but not least, it's the quality of the offer that's most important, not whether it's public or private. I am in no way surprised that the Red's representative wants an ideological solution to child protection, and it is obvious that it is their main concern with this proposal, but the fact is that Moxnes' proposal to phase out all commercial actors would quickly create problems both with capacity and with competence in the sector, and also involve increased costs. The Christian People's Party's focus is what's actually best for the children who need the help of child protection. We are also very confident that government's priorities in the field, and not least their good work both in the form of legislative proposals and regulations and in budgets, will ensure that many of the challenges facing child protection today are addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e3459	I would like to start by saying that the Right has misunderstood a little, because what Red wants is to make sure that all the money allocated to the very vulnerable among us – children and young people who need child protection – should go unabated for that purpose and not disappear out of the services of private enrichment for large commercial companies, which unfortunately we see increasingly happening in child protection. Both local and national politicians have a great responsibility to ensure that child protection services are as good as possible for those in need of the service. The responsibility also involves deciding who should be allowed to be responsible for vulnerable children and young people. We miss that the government parties take on the fact that much of the care for the children in child protection is left to commercial and profit-based actors who aim to get the most money for their owners out of child protection. It has now proved again that this profit motive increases the risk that children and young people will not be given a right to offer. The welfare service committee report confirms that, naturally, commercial actors in child protection are motivated for economic reasons. Everyone in Stortinget should know that soon. What is more worrying, as the report states, is that there is a real danger that the legal guarantees for children in child protection can give way to this economic motive. Our view is that child protection must be based on the best of the child, not on financial gain. We see that it is the professionals we need to invest in to ensure the best possible service for children and young people who need child protection. It is a paradox that, with the ongoing strike of private care businesses, we now see that the competitions in child protection also lead to pressure on the pay and working conditions of those who do the job and who are the most important actors in order to ensure the best possible protection of children. We in Red don't think we can accept that it's the wages and pensions of professionals that are being weakened just to ensure the profit of some large commercial companies. The children, young people and families who receive child protection are not in a position to control the quality of the services they receive. They are often totally dependent on a service where the primary focus is on legal certainty, quality and humanity, but are therefore priced purchasing processes that do not work for their best. Now we have to take over the consequences of commercialisation, and I'm taking up Red's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e3476	The representative Bears Moxnes has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e3481	The only thing we agree with the representative from Red about here today is that it is the best thing for children to be in focus. For the Progress Party, it is very important to stress that there is no contradiction between the quality of service and the private operation of child protection. We know that in a lot of cases, there are the private providers in this field that make it possible for us to give these children an offer at all. The crucial thing is that you have enough capacity, and the central thing is that it is the quality that needs to be in focus. This proposal, which we are discussing today, joins in the series of ideological proposals in the field that have been submitted to the Stortinget, without anyone taking into account the consequences this will actually have for families abroad, in the municipalities where these children live. I am also not surprised, as the representative of the Christian People's Party, that this proposal comes from the Red. In a number of issues at Stortinget, we see that a negative presentation of situations is what is in focus, and that an ideological war, especially against the private, is what is most important for the Red Party. The only thing we can say we agree with the party Red about is that it's a child's protection for the good of the children, and that's why we should have put a sentence after the title of the representative proposal, but that's where it stops. This proposal will not help anyone at all, and I wonder if Red has at all an overview of how many children this would have affected in today's situation, if you were to cut off any contracts that might now expire. So in the middle of a pandemic, political ideology was to be put in front of the most vulnerable children in this country to help those who need us most. If we hadn't had the private in the situation we're in now, and as we'll be standing tomorrow, you wouldn't have been able to give these children the help I think we're obliged to give in this room. It is therefore perhaps no surprise that the Progress Party will not vote for any of the proposals that are being put forward here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e3491	Most importantly, the quality and content of the provision of services to children and young people, the timely and timely provision of services to children and young people, and the proper enforcement of legal certainty. Proper use will enable private individuals to support the objectives of good child protection. In order to contribute to the diversity of supply, the government wants to strengthen the position of ideal suppliers. We made changes to the procurement legislation in February 2020 so that one can reserve competitions for health and social services for just ideal suppliers. Both non-profit and commercial have been important contributors to child protection over time. If all commercial operators are phased out, as stated by the representative Moxnes and SV, it will have extensive effects. The phasing-out of commercial operators would lead to a risk of a deterioration in the supply of young people and an increase in costs. That is why I believe that the proposal for a representative will not be for the benefit of children in need of child protection. It is obvious that the public has, and will have, the responsibility for child protection in Norway. We need to be sure that the quality of supply is good, that resource use is effective and that legal certainty is ensured. The quality of the offer made to each child shall be independent of ownership, so that everyone who needs it is offered an equivalent offer. Proposals for changes to the framework conditions for private actors in child protection have now been consulted. Final legislative proposals will be sent to Stortinget this spring. At any time, there are about 1,000 children and young people living in child protection institutions. Employees of child protection institutions shall provide specialised care and child protection services to children and young people in a very vulnerable situation. I have told Bufdir to focus on the use of private individuals from commercial to non-profit providers in the field of institutions, within the framework of the budget, on the overall requirements for the provision of institutions and Bufetat's obligation to provide assistance. We have also worked all the way through various ways to follow up the request decision that has already been mentioned, to increase the proportion of non-profit institutions serving households to 40 pst. We've done a lot of work, and we're going to get back to Stortinget with even more related to this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e3506	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e3511	Yes, it is nice that the Council of State focuses on the request decision, which I also included in my contribution, and which was taken here in the Stortinget nearly three years ago, to increase the proportion of non-profit actors to 40 pst. by 2025. It's said there's a lot of work going on. In answer to a question from me last year the council replied: ‘Bufdir has been entrusted with the task of developing a concrete strategy for the optimal implementation of the request decision during the autumn of 2020.’;» When the Ideal Children's Protection Forum asked for access to this work recently, they received a refusal from Buffdir, on the grounds that it was outside the public domain. I am then left with quite a lot of confusion about how the government at all follows up this decision now. That the dialogue with the ideal actors is as bad as it seemed to be, does not reassure me, so I wonder whether the Council of State is working to get the ideal actors involved in its work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e3521	It's true that we've given Bufdir the task of developing a concrete strategy, which we've been given, and which we're working on following up. It is quite natural that when we make different assessments in the department, not everything is necessarily public until we possibly get to Stortinget with one thing. As I said in my post, this decision is first of all validated by the Control and Constitutional Committee and as such formally approved, but we are working to achieve the goal by 2025. As I said in my post, we are committed to strengthening the ideal position, because we think they add something positive to child protection, that ideal actors add creativity and make it better for the kids as well. I wrote down some points for myself. The first was this with a concrete strategy. We have set up new framework agreements for ideal centres for parents and children, which are important to them. In the letters of assignment, Buffdir was asked to give preference to ideals rather than commercial ones, as I said in my post.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e3528	The answer is fine, because we in the Center Party and the Christian People's Party are very concerned with exactly the ideal actors, at least we've been there before. It is good that work that is going on can be rammed out point-to-point. I am equally concerned about the role of the ideal actors themselves in this work. Signals and enquiries I receive indicate that at least some of them feel that they may not necessarily take a large part in this work. I think that's weird. I would like to have a little more overview of whether the Minister believes that the ideal actors are well-informed in this work and whether they have a significant impact on the result that will be available.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e3535	We've had meetings with ideals, and it's important recordings coming from there, but when I point to Bufdir, it's because they've been involved and contributed to, for example. develop the strategy and have a central place in the acquisition of new sites. I didn't come up with that in my previous answer, but it's important to stress – as I think we agree – that the most important thing here is the kids. It is children and young people who are currently in private institutions who may be going to ideals. Then it is so important that this happens in a good way, because there are a lot of people who have a very good offer today, and who may have to be moved, which may be demanding for children. One must have developed a professionally good offer if they are to be moved. These are demanding processes, because regardless of this goal, the most important thing for me is that the kids get the best possible offer. That's what I think we're sharing. That's why we're following up that work in a very thorough and good way, and I believe we're going to be able to achieve the goal in 2025.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e3544	Private actors are involved in developing and ensuring good child protection throughout the country. I wonder, therefore, whether the government council could outlaw little about the fatal consequences it could have for children and families in an already difficult situation if all the private providers were to be removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e3549	It's always fun to be able to speculate a little bit – if and if. If one interprets the proposal in the worst sense and it was to be implemented in a very short time, it would be fateful for a very large number of children. There is no doubt that very many children who are in a very demanding and vulnerable situation get a good offer of private today. If, in a very short time, they were left in another offer, I don't think we had managed to build up the skills that are needed, and gave them such a good offer, and it would have been demanding for the kids to have to move. Therefore, as I said in my post, I am concerned that in order to get the best possible child protection that sees every child, who gives them a safe and good offer, is a dependent on private people. When you have the opportunity to look at good quality at the right price, you get even more care for the kids for that money. If we had had a load of money and had no limits, a thought might be slightly different, but to give the kids the best possible offer with the money we have, I believe it works best the way it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e3556	I thank the Council of State for its response, but I also wonder a little about something in the extension of the National Audit Office's report of 30 September on child protection. They stress that there is a primary need for children to be heard themselves, and that it is the follow-up of the institution and the work there that is important. We received insurance earlier today that something is being done to solve the child protection challenges in particular in this field and to improve the supply. So it's not like Red says that it's whether the providers are private or public that's crucial. Do the councils agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e3561	I agree. If you come into the topic of participation, I think it's absolutely central. It's included in the law. One thing is that it's legal, but we're also working to ensure that it's actually being followed up. I think that should be clear to help the kids, it is vital to have their situation, what kind of needs they have, what kind of dreams they have, what is the best possible offer you can give them in the future. Then an individual and good follow-up, and one also needs participation. I think child protection needs to be better at listening to the kids and their views and at proving that they do. We have already made the formal changes to the legislation and are well in the process of incorporating better procedures and systems so that it does. I believe that with regard to the report of the National Audit Office, the important input is the work. Much was known, and therefore many changes have already been made. One of the important changes that will happen in the future is the Child Protection Act, which we are going to discuss in the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e3568	There was a reason that Olaug Bollestad told the media that the Christian People's Party should continue to have a policy for the 'ideals to win and the growth of the great commercial ones to be stopped, and we want to have with all parties who want to participate in good solutions here, also the party Red, we look forward to cooperation on this!' The background for this was the discovery that the profitability of commercial child protection is up to 22-23 pst. – thus skyrocketed over any other legitimate nourishment in our country. It's a crazy profit taken out of service, our tax money that would go to the best of children. That's why a great crowd, with the Christian People's Party, wanted to tighten up and secure the ideal growth at the expense of the commercial ones. In view of the round in Stortinget today, does Ropstad see that there is a difference between the ideal private actors and the commercial ones?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e3576	The Christian People's Party has been one of those parties that has, most clearly, been lifting up ideal actors all along because we think it's adding something extra positive to society. We see how crazy a lot of commitment and voluntary forces it also generates, and very many of the public offerings today are just developed by ideals. That is why, from national teams, as I have already mentioned, we have done a lot with everything from procurement legislation to what we have done in the letters of assignment, to ensure that ideals are prioritised. We've done it from national teams, but also here in Oslo, we've been one of the proponents to ensure ideals. What surprised me was that when I saw the last numbers from Oslo, there's a drop of 38 pst., I think it was, using the clock in ideal institutions of child protection. It worries me. I saw that there has been a decrease in the budgets of the ideals of 17 pst., while there has been an increase of 1 pst. Here, the Red Hand has really been on the steering wheel, so I hope – because I think we agree with a lot of this – that there is a field representative who prioritizes to ensure the ideal actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e3583	I interpret the answer so that the Council of State sees that there is a clear difference between ideal and commercial actors, and that our proposal is about removing the commercialisation of child protection and getting a variety of public and non-profit private actors. Then there is a further concern in the welfare service committee report that there is a real danger that legal certainty for children, young people and families under the protection of children will give way for economic reasons when commercial operators operate the services. The committee has also pointed out that it is also not possible to ensure that the requirement for services provided by these actors complies with legal conditions. I wonder if this is a matter of concern to the Council of State, and not least what the Council of State intends to do on the basis of the information contained in the report from the sample.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e3588	Firstly, I record that the representative is not concerned about the decline of the ideals in Oslo. It's just that I'm recording, and I hope he gets engaged there Red has his hand on the wheel. In terms of quality, or whether tenders contribute to the promotion of quality, there is nothing in the report that claims that tenders do not contribute to the promotion of quality. I think, as I've said before, that the amount of money is so large that you can spend as much money as you want, it's clear that you can think differently. But we have a certain amount we can spend on giving the best possible offer to the kids. Then I think that the diversity, the public, the ideal and the private commercial are involved in providing the best possible offer at the best price possible. It is about getting the best care for the young and the best possible quality of that offer. Yes, I see that the ideals have something special, and that's why I fight for them, but I'm not afraid that private people also have something in this sector, because they contribute a lot positively.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e3595	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e3602	I don't remember in the description of Red that the profits in the child protection sector are high. The claim made by Moxnes, or for the same claim made by the welfare country, is not more accurate if it is repeated and repeated. I also do not agree with the SV's story of a child protection based on profit motive – and of course I do not agree with the Centre Party, which is now proposing the closure of an entire industry with private child protection providers. The right and the large majority do not consider a child protection sector without good private providers. For us, the quality of the offer is central, not whether it is public or private. We simply don't recognize in the negative image the red-green paints with a wide brush. In the debate we hear how the red-greens use the argument that all tax money should go to well-being, not to private profit. But is it really the case that all the tax dollars benefit the user, as long as they are supplied from the public? In 2019, 14,700 children lived outside the home, 73 pst. of them in foster home, 8 pst. of which, 46 pst. in private or non-profit institutions for the protection of children. We're talking about 538 children and young people. In NOU 2020: 13, Private operators in the welfare state, the majority concluded that the industry does not have an unreasonable level of profit. In 2019, according to the NHO, private child protection services were purchased for 2.8 billion. kr. In 2018, the surplus in the industry was 4.7 pst. It's not a super-profit. The average number of Norwegian enterprises in the same year was 5.5 pst. – in other words, completely different numbers from those operated by Moxnes with the latest in the line chord shift. The majority of the sample considered that no regulation should be introduced limiting the possibility for the child protection service to be assisted by private operators, and justified by the fact that the service is provided by private individuals with the necessary flexibility in an area of unforeseeable demand and specific needs. The right is concerned with maintaining a good welfare mix. We want to improve today's system rather than ban the private, as the red-green struggles for. This is well supported in the report of the Just Welfare Service Committee. The NOU has good information on both market shares and margins, and it shows that the claim of dividends to owners on a large scale is simply an incorrect claim. The Hagen committee also confirms that profits in companies that provide welfare services are lower than those in other parts of the business, which I referred to earlier. They also write that it is a fact that much of what is in profit is used internally in the company.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-01-19.ana.ud456e3615	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask before raising a meeting? - The meeting has been cancelled.
