ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e103	For the sake of infection, the President would like the public gallery to be closed during the meeting today – and see it as agreed. Before the items in the meeting card are taken up for processing, the President will inform you that the meeting is continuing beyond noon today. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e123	The president wants to organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the government. In addition, no lines will be given, and those who draw on the list of speakers in addition to the time allocated will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e130	Special notification from the EOS Committee on classified information was sent to the Stortinget on 25 February 2021. On the same day, a special committee for the examination of the case by the Grand Duchy was established, representing all the lots. At the request of the Special Committee, on 26 February 2021 the Chairmanship of the Grand Duchy asked the EOS Committee to submit the final classified report. On 24 March 2021, the EOS Committee sent a brief summary of the graduated final report to Stortinget. At the request of the Special Committee, the Presidency of the EEAS addressed the Ministry of Defence with a request for the de-gradation of the summary of the EOS Committee. In its letter of reply, the Minister of Defence announced that the Department has concluded that the final report of the EOS Committee summary contains classified information and that therefore the request from the Presidency for degradation cannot be met. In a letter to the Presidency of the United Kingdom on 20 April 2021, the majority of the Special Committee, i.e. the members of the Labour Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party, asked the Presidency to launch a process aimed at the Degrading of the Summary. The Presidency has assessed the request of the Special Committee. Like the Committee, the Presidency has been divided into a majority and a minority, along the same political lines as in the Committee. The majority of the Presidency is voting against the downgrading of the EOS Committee summary, and I would like to elaborate on the arguments underlying the majority's conclusion. The majority consider, on a principle basis, that the Storting should not overestimate the management’s assessments of the need for grading based on the possible harm to national security interests. Any derogation from this should be reserved for totally exceptional situations. The examination of a report by one of the external control bodies of the Storting is, at the discretion of the majority, not to be regarded as such an exceptional situation, even though the matter in question has received considerable public attention. The Ministry of Defence states that it is difficult to see that considerations intended to degrade outweigh the protection of national security interests in this case. As information owners, the Ministry of Defence is best placed to assess the consequences of damage if the information is downgraded, including how this could affect the relationship with other nations. The majority indicate that the EOS Committee has been appointed to control the activities of the secret services on behalf of the Storting. It is within the control model itself that the sample is given access to classified information which is not made available to the public. The majority have also stressed that the Stortinget has the possibility to carry out full parliamentary treatment without publication of documents. All political parties participate in the Special Committee and the plenary session of the Stortinge will be held at the end of this month for consideration by the Committee. All elected representatives have the right to submit their case documents. Finally, the majority in its comments on the suspension has shown that any review of the government’s assessments on issues related to harm to national security interests could have a serious impact on the access to classified information by both the Storting itself, the EOS Committee and other control bodies in the future. There are regular questions about the scope of transparency, both for the Committees of the European Parliament and for external bodies. The Court of Auditors’ right of access has also been disputed over the years and, in the light of a 1999 decision taken by the EEAS, it has limited the right of access to so-called ‘specially sensitive information’ of the Intelligence Service. If the administration cannot have full confidence that classified information known to the Supervisory Body of the Stortinge or the Stortinge will remain classified, the administration could in practice be more reluctant to provide classified information. Transparency issues could then be more easily challenged or disputed in future control cases. On this basis, I would like the Storting to take a decision in accordance with the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e166	Mr. Morten Wold, who is responsible for the presidency, has presented the matter itself and to the majority of the presidency's views on the downgrading of this summary from the EOS Committee. We often agree in the presidency when we come to the Grand Duchy in plenary, but today we actually very disagree. I represent the minority in the presidency, which consists of Nils T. Bjørke, Magne Rommetveit and myself, and I'm just going to give a brief explanation for the proposal I'm going to make now. I would like to start by stressing that it is not at all relevant to downgrading the graduated final report of the EOS Committee, but this is about a summary of the EOS Committee that has been made with a view to achieving a degradation. According to media reviews, it may seem like there's a huge document about degrading. It's not. We assume that there must be serious consideration for the Storting to decide to downgrade information issued by others, but we believe that such reasons actually apply in the matter of Frode Berg. We will place considerable emphasis on the fact that the EOS Committee, which is the Storting’s own control body, believes that the summary has a content that can be made public. We believe that the Storting should support the sample assessment. This is the first time in the 25-year history of the EOS Committee that the overall conclusions of the sample have had to be transmitted to the Stortinget in the form of a graduated document. We therefore believe that this case is so extraordinary and special that any consequences for future cases cannot be given decisive importance. We believe it is important that there should be an open and democratic debate on parliamentary control. Therefore, the public has a legitimate interest in being able to familiarise itself with the main conclusions of the EOS Committee, even though we are also aware that there is information in the matter that is right to safeguard the transparency of national security interests. We are therefore promoting the following proposals: in the context of the examination of Document 7:2 by Stortingen for 2020-2021, in particular the notification of classified information by the EOS Committee, the summary of the final graduated report by the EOS Committee is deflected. That's our proposal, and with that I've taken it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e183	The representative Eva Kristin Hansen has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e188	Responsible Morten Wold and Eva Kristin Hansen have both explained the different views of the presidency. In this case, the Presidency has arranged for a thorough discussion in the Grand Duchy. In consultation with the parliamentary leaders, the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Defence Policy and the chairperson of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, it was proposed to the Stortinget to set up a special committee in which all parties were involved, precisely because it was important for all parties to be fully involved in this matter. In addition, all depositors may participate in the documents. In time, they will also be able to read the configuration of the special committee. The Presidency has been committed to facilitating thorough treatment. It belongs to the units that the Storting treats highly classified information, but it does, and we have very good routines for this. It's important. Even less frequently, the EOS Committee delivers a message to the Stortinget, stating that they pay particular attention to the fact that the Stortinget should familiarise itself with classified information. But it's not the first time; it's happened before. This happened in 2003, and the Stortingen decided not to ask for this information. The size now fully addresses the conclusions of the EOS Committee, and considering the control of the government by the Storting, the majority of the Presidency does not consider that a degradation is necessary. The right considers that the Storting should not overestimate the management’s assessment of the need for grading. The importance of national security is heavier than the considerations that should be used for downgrading. The creation of the EOS Committee was, of course, a recognition of the fact that there is a strenuous balance between the Storting, the population and the press's right to information and the need for protection attached to information held by the EOS services. So the EOS Committee has been evaluated, in 2016, among others. In this work, it was also discussed whether it is problematic that the EOS Committee has to deal with the services’ view of grading and degrading. But it is a fundamental principle, both nationally and internationally, that the body that owns the information also decides whether the information can be shared with others. In the evaluation of the EOS Committee, I find no comments from the Workers' Party related to this consideration, nor any comments that show that the Stortinget should address itself in any other way with this type of case and this type of control. We've rigged for this. We're carrying out full control. The EOS Committee does that. The size does it. But our very clear principle in this matter is that we should not overdo the assessment that the information owner holds. It is also the case that the rights of access of the EOS Committee have been discussed in the Storting several times in recent years, including in the United Kingdom. quite detailed in the setting of the EOS Control Act in 2017. We set up systems to deal with such demanding situations. Then it's our job to follow them when we have to apply this legislation, and that's what the majority of the presidency and the majority of the Grand Duchy now want to follow.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e205	I will shortly be allowed to explain the views of the Centre Party on the matter. We're part of the minority that wants one here to be able to downgrade what the EOS summary committee has created, and its purpose is just as much transparency as possible. The EOS committee has served us well. It was a rather difficult period when the EOS Committee was set up. The discussion after the Lund Commission and the intelligence services' activities related to what emerged under the Lund Commission gave us new control tools through the EOS Committee, and they have worked well. They've done a good job over the years. They've rarely challenged the relationship with the secret services or government, beyond what was right and natural. There has been no body that has in any way been challenging. They have done a thorough and good job, and it belongs to the units that they are also as clear as they have been in this case, that one here for Stortinget's part should also be able to get acquainted with the summary that they think should have been downgraded. Actually, it's a little bit eye-catching that the EOS Committee is going to that step. When the EOS Committee does that, it's also important for the Storting to listen to it. Then I think it is important that one is also very clear here – as the representative Hansen was – that this is not a matter of upgrading the documents in the matter, but a matter of upgrading the summary of the EOS Committee has just been prepared for that purpose. There are certainly arguments for and against, and one has tried to organise parliamentary procedure as best it can, but the centre party and I have no doubt that the parliamentary procedure would have been better and more comprehensive if one had also followed the recommendation of the EOS Committee on this matter. The way we put up the treatment, can never be as comprehensive, as thorough and as open as it could have been if we had also got transparency about the summary that is recommended downgraded. The centre party considers this to be a completely exceptional situation and has therefore chosen to enter the minority who want to be transparent about that summary.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e220	The EOS Committee is part of Storting's control work. It's the Storting's sample, and it's been checking the intelligence, surveillance and security services on our behalf for the last 25 years. The history of the establishment of this sample and the Lund Commission in the 1990s, the history of illegal political surveillance in Norway, shows the importance of the work of the Supervisory Body of the Stortinge. The intelligence, surveillance and security services must be subject to transparent and democratic control. It is about the possibility of detecting, preventing and stopping illegal use of power against citizens. But it is also about the important job these services do for our country, because the critical insight into the work of services leads to improvement. I believe that both the peoples of the EOS Committee and the relevant services will agree that the last 25 years of parliamentary control have improved services, but in particular because the intelligence, surveillance and security services of our time depend entirely on confidence in the population. Professor at the University of Defense Tormod Heier writes it well in an article: Disinformation and distrust are actively used by foreign powers as a weapon. We have to meet that by building trust. And secrecy, obscurity and obscurity do not create trust. It breaks down and contributes to speculation and disinformation. This is an important reason why SV today is voting for the degradation of the EOS Committee summary of the report. The democratic control of our intelligence and security services depends on as open and informed a public conversation as possible. Of course, the information that cannot be shared is also in this case. But our assessment of the summary of the report is that it is more harmful to continue the secret than it should be to downgrade the summary. The assessment of the degradability of the document is shared by the EOS Committee itself. That's the other important reason why we're voting for the downgrading today. We have confidence in the thorough evaluation done by the sample, and in what their 25-year experience in controlling the service has given them. I record that the majority of the presidency and the representative Wold say that information travel is the best way to assess whether information can be downgraded or not. I choose to listen to the Supervisory Body of Storting, which has a different assessment of that matter. In addition, this is also about the authority of the Supervisory Body of Storting. They're doing the job on our behalf. But if we put ourselves in the situation that the Supervisory Body of Storting is not listened to by government and administration and then don't have – let's say that – the big thing in the back, yes what does that mean for their authority in meeting the services in the future? It's a fundamentally important question, and there's reason to warn against the possible consequences of it. Finally, there is also reason to warn against the developments we have seen in recent years. We have constantly seen the use of security rating in contravention of the recommendations of Stortingen’s own control bodies, as the EOS Committee now does, but also in violation of the Riksrevision’s assessment. And we also continue to see the denial of transparency in the Stortinget documents that Stortinget asks for – not public, but transparency for Stortinget. We also see in other cases attempts to limit the transparency of the large-scale control bodies in the administration. It's not long since we discussed the Civil Ombudsman Act from this pulpit. And I want to say that I hear from the editors a description of a development in which the media also get less insight into what they want to see. This complicates the control work of the Storting. It closes curtains, and it cools down the public debate on important issues. It's serious, and the Storting shouldn't find out that this is happening, and it's completely independent of who's in government at all times. This is in the interest of Stortingen, the control activities of Stortingen.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e243	Today, the Stortinget could have been in full swing with the cleanup, which everyone understands is necessary, after the Frode Berg case. We could have explained the errors, placed the responsibility and discussed concrete suggestions on how to avoid similar scandals in the future. It would be good for Norway's security, to restore the necessary trust in services, and it would also be good for democracy. In fact, the EOS Committee, which is the Agency for the Secret Services, has written a very thorough and informative report for which they deserve credit. Unfortunately, the government has chosen to prevent the Storting's control work and to prevent the Storing from contributing to the necessary cleanup by keeping all information from the EOS Committee secret, contrary to the EOS Committee's recommendation. The Special Committee for the Examination of the Special Notice of the EOS Committee has received a summary of the report, which the EOS Committee considers to be sound in degrading, but unfortunately the Ministry of Defence has been kept secret. As a result, the majority of the committee asked for a law decision in the Stortingen to downgrade the summary. But in the presidency setting, the government parties, with the Progress Party on the hook, choose to ring around the government secretaries rather than contribute to the necessary cleanup of the case. It is of great concern that the Supervisory Body of Storting was bound by administrative confidentiality. This is the first time the EOS Committee has to report to the Stortinget. It represents a historic step backwards for the absolutely necessary democratic control of the secret services. So there's a question: what does the government need to hide in this case, and what reasons are they primarily protecting? If we are to believe the media, the Russians have had both Frode Berg and the E-service offensive operations in Russia under observation for a long time before the arrested Berg, who was behind lock and hit and probably was pumped for information over nearly two long years. Berg himself has told the media who he has worked for, and he has been accepted, when he finally came home, by the Minister of Defense and by the head of the E-service, and he has also received a million damages from the Norwegian State. All of this is known for intelligence in Russia and for anyone else who is able to read, either Norwegian, Russian or English. This is probably an example of government abuse of secrecy, not in order to protect Norway’s security, but in order to protect itself from open criticism, and not least in order to run out of responsibility. We also saw that when the government asked the Stortinget in over 1 billion. kr for civilian satellites to North Norway, and thus kept secret that the money would go to satellites that were part of the U.S. offensive nuclear weapons systems. We also saw something similar with the mystery of the billion-dollar scandal F-35 and a number of other things. In sum, the role of the Storting is undermined, the control function of the elected people, and with it also one of the pillars of Norwegian democracy. In this case, the secret is to prevent a settlement that is necessary to clean up a form of irresponsible activity, which, according to all publicly available information, has been out of control. We fear that the result is not safer Norway, but on the contrary more discharge and greater risk of serious errors happening again. But the last words have not been said about the report and about the downgrading. We have recorded that all the parties on the left of the government have been set up for downgrading. These batches are expected to have a majority in the Stortinget following the autumn elections, and Red will propose legislative decisions for the degradation of the EOS Committee summary following the election. I take it as a matter of course that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the SV and the MDG will stand firm by the fact that the downgrading is necessary and correct, and still want us to stand up to irresponsible secrecy – and also this undermining we see of the control functions of Stortingen, which, of course, weakens Norwegian democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e260	The EOS Committee's report on the Frode Berg case and its summary are classified under the Security Act. The justification is that the disclosure of the information to the unauthorised person may cause serious harm to national security interests. The graduation has, among other things: the context in which we, as Norwegian authorities, do not confirm or confirm whether or not specific intelligence operations are taking place abroad. This is an established principle, and it is a principle that it is important to maintain. If we comment on a matter in one case, we will also have to comment on later matters or claims. It will use threat actors against us for their benefit. In the long term, it will make our intelligence more vulnerable and less effective, with the consequences it will have for Norwegian security in general and the security of E-service personnel in particular. It will also significantly weaken our trust with international partners if they cannot trust that we are protecting classified information. As a small country, we depend on good and reliable intelligence cooperation. Then we must show that we are a credible partner. We cannot have an open control with a secret service, which I record that someone is in charge. It's a contradiction. The prerequisite for having a intelligence service is that we protect the operations, capacities and personnel of the service against public access. This is also a central part of the justification for the EOS Committee. At the same time, I would like to stress that it does not mean that such matters cannot be discussed in the public domain, or that the e-service is not controlled. The EOS Committee has full access to the necessary information, and the Stortinget has the possibility to carry out a full parliamentary examination of the evaluations and conclusions of the sample, while respecting the requirements of the Security Act. Thus, the control is closely adapted to the area of society in which we are located. That's the way it's been for the last 25 years, and that's how it should keep going. I notice that the minority places considerable emphasis on the fact that the EOS Committee believes that the summary can be published. In this respect, I recall that it is a fundamental principle, reflected in both the EOS Control Act and the Safety Act, that it is the information owner who determines the grading and possible downgrading of information. It is related to the fact that the information owner is the closest person to assess the consequences if information is made available to unauthorised persons. This principle was also addressed and maintained following the review of the EOS Control Act in 2016/2017. I also notice that the minority believes this matter, with reference to grading, is so extraordinary that any consequences for future matters cannot be given decisive importance. That is a disturbing view. The realisation of national security interests is a major and important task, and precisely consequence-based thinking belongs naturally to the exercise of this task. I support the Presidency's recommendation that the request from the Special Committee to deal with the specific notification from the EOS Committee on the degradation of documents in the context of the Stortinge treatment of Document 7:2 for 2020-2021 be annexed to the Protocol. I think it's a right and basically important grip.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e275	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e281	The EOS Committee is a very important selection. It has a very special task, and I think I'll say a very special task among Storting's external control bodies. It's because they're following services that in their own way can't be known to everyone. That's exactly why we have this sample. They don't know everything, but they'll know about the things they're investigating. And, of course, they can't share everything either. The question here is the competence for grading and, where appropriate, degrading. The principle is that information sessions have been added, in this case the services and the ministry. There is a reason that that competence has not been added to the EOS Committee. So it is not the EOS Committee that has the overall overview of what elements in this case may have to do with Norway’s overall safety. They do not have that overview, they should not have that overview, they have never received that overview, nor can they make that assessment. Then it's strange that someone is now going to add that competence to the EOS committee. The Special Committee asked the Ministry of Defence to consider, in whole or in part, degrading the first report we were given access to and degrading the summary that is much discussed. On the right is the review carried out by the Ministry. I have to say that we have had a hearing on this matter, and then we were very well informed as to why they have taken that decision. I'm actually a little surprised that those who were at this hearing haven't brought it with me. So finally, it is said here that this is a classified document, preventing the treatment of the Storting, preventing the control of the Storting. No, it doesn't. The EOS Committee is controlling on our behalf. When we need additional information, we'll tell you about it. We got it. It is available to all staging representatives. The only special thing is that we discuss the matter and we read documents in the matter in a security-cleared room. We're going to debate in a security-cleared room. The size has exactly the same access to dealing with this matter and controls the services, possibly criticising the services, as in any other case. It's not publicity that's control, it's Big City's work that's control, and that's what we're chosen to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e292	In the light of the statements of the Council of State, I find reason to clarify from the excellent article of Eva Kristin Hansen that no one is asking for the entire report to be upgraded. The argument to the Minister of Defence was heard like that. We are simply asking that the summary that the EOS Committee has assessed to be available for publication be published. The EOS committee has been doing a solid job for 25 years. We've never been in this situation with the EOS committee before, that there's been a disagreement with those they've controlled, about what can be public or not. That's the first time it happens. So that's a very unique situation. Then we think it's important to get behind the EOS committee. There's the responsible person. Let me say it like this: Svein Green is not exactly a ramp. It has therefore been seriously assessed that what is in the summary can be published – not everything, but what is in the summary. That assessment shared the presidency on 25 March. I allow myself to assume that the presidency is involved in the matters they deal with. Then they discussed the summary and asked the Ministry of Defence to degrade. That's exactly what they did. But then, when the Ministry of Defence, as usual, says no, we see that the majority of the presidency, with the President's double voice, turns around and does not use the democratic access that the Stortinget has to give access to a document that, in our opinion, is denied transparency – not to protect the security of the kingdom, but to protect the convenience of the government. That's exactly why we have that possibility. I fully agree that the principle is that the documenter defines whether the document is secret or not, but at the same time the democratic rules say that when the Stortinge believes it, they can, however, degrade. It is also part of democratic law. In particular, I am shaken when I see in the vote and hear the argument of the case rapporteur and the President-in-Office. It's in the setting - and I'll quote: ‘Any review of the government’s assessments on issues related to harm to national security interests could also have serious consequences for both the Stortings’ own, the EOS Committee and other Stortings’ access to classified information in the future.’» So here one says that if the Storting exercises its democratic right, the government can start denying the control bodies their legal access to secret documents. I am apprehensive about the arguments put in the grounds for the refusal. If the rejection had been justified by the content of the document, well, but this is a frightening democratic practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e308	I also want to say that I am startled at a part of the posts, without saying so much more than that. I think that both the case rapporteur, Mr Wold, and the President made good, explanatory statements, which show the importance of the decision that is being taken today. But let me stress, at least from the point of view of the Progress Party – and I am sure, on behalf of the majority in the Chamber – that the work done by the EOS Committee is incredibly important. It is almost as if we support the work of the EOS Committee, and that we do not support the EOS Committee's report and the general work, with the decision we are making today. That scares me. It is important that we get there and are very clear that the EOS Committee has done a thorough job on this matter. It will also show that we agree with the conclusions of the EOS Committee on this matter. But that's not what this is about. Several have indicated that Stortinget will not be able to do its work when we do not downgrade this matter. The EOS committee does it on behalf of the Stortinget, and the Stortinget has received the report. As the representative Harberg was inside, Stortinget gets a good opportunity to deal with this matter in a good way. As Harberg also pointed out, all the magnificence representatives, elected by the people, will have the opportunity to read both the report and the nomination of the special committee. One speaker was concerned about what it does to the meeting with the services in the future. I'm afraid the EOS Committee's ability to control the secret services in retrospect will be made more difficult if the Stortinge is going to review what the department has done by not degrading this. It is an important principle, and it is fundamentally unfortunate that the Storting should review the assessments made by the E Service and the Ministry of Defence on the need for confidentiality of this report. The background is that the secret services depend entirely on the credibility of the foreign cooperation services in order to exchange and receive information. If we publish this kind of information, it'll be the consequence that we might no longer have access to information that we're totally dependent on. So I'm very happy that the majority of the Storing understands the decision it's going to make today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e321	I do not need to use strong terms in this matter, but I need to point out that I think it is a little strange that it seems that this debate is going on in the process that Stortinget is not allowed to do the control that Stortinget is going to do. I would strongly stress that this is not right. It is a great responsibility for us 169 elected representatives in the Chamber. It's in these kinds of issues that we have a particularly important control task based on what the EOS committee delivers to the Stortinget. I also notice that in the debate there are very different approaches to what can be called the red-green side of politics. If there was to be a red-green majority after the election, it seems to me that SV believes that the competence for the downgrading should be with the EOS Committee. It may also have been part of the Workers' Party's article. Then it seems as if Red means you can't control the secret services without everything being public, and then we just have to wait for changes to come on this. The size has discussed these questions many times. The Storting has evaluated the EOS Act and the EOS Committee. The size has discussed this. I have not registered any comments other than SV's comments in the processing in 2017, where SV was concerned with this restriction that is related to the transparency of the EOS Committee in matters with particularly sensitive information. The working party was not on SV's line in that case. Then the chairman of the special committee has a somewhat surprising play against me and the majority of the presidency. It is true that when the Special Committee unanimously asks the Presidency to send a letter to the Ministry asking them to assess the degradation, the Presidency does so. Then the Ministry carries out that assessment and gives its feedback that the Presidency sends back to the Special Committee. It is only when this matter is discussed where a majority of the committee is asking for the de-gradation that the presidency is dealing with this. Of course, we are familiar with the content of the case, also the contents of the summary, and of course we make our decisions on the basis of that. I would warn against making this a discussion that Stortinget can only check when everything is public. It will be a violation of the rule that we agree on.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e330	It was particularly the contributions of the representatives of Andersen and the Supreme Court that made me comment, because a review tone is that the Stortinget owes its loyalty to the EOS Committee. I have great respect for what the EOS Committee has done for many years, but when it comes to issues of downgrading, they are not given any role by the Storting. The size has determined who has decision-making powers by the Security Act that the Stortinget has set for the world. Then it's paradoxical for me to stand here and argue with a kind of loyalty that the Stortinget owes to an outside body, and at the same time to penetrate its own principle from the Security Act, which has been in the hall for a relatively new time, and which is based on the right authority to set the graduation, and which also takes a stand for the downgrading. It was said that the Storting should degrade, through the proposal available. That's skipping some middle billings. The minority in the presidency recommends that we do, is intervene in an administrative decision through the legislative competence of the Stortinget, and one chooses to use the legislator's competence to just penetrate the security law's system. It is called singular legislation in the other context, and it must be very careful because it erases the responsibilities of the administrative authorities, which are governed by law, and with which the Stortinget is also very well served by law. So what the minority is doing here is giving an exception to the Security Act for their own needs, and it's a very dangerous galley. So there's a question of whether there really is a need for this. There was no argument for that. I see that Andersen's representative has signed up afterwards, and can Andersen's representative tell me how Storting's institutional control is hampered by the fact that this is not published? Because we have systems to process confidential information here in the house. We can even have secret shopping meetings. The only thing that threatens that confidentiality is that, to make yourself interesting in the press, it often seems fun to leak this information. But that's another problem, and that's from that team -- let's say -- the threat to institutional control of the government is lying. I would also like to distance myself from a number of references to the so-called control committees as the Stortinges' own, because they're just not targeting the government's office, but I'm going to come back to that in a longer post.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e341	I was very surprised at the last post of the Grand President and the party politics she is now putting up with by saying that a new government needs to change the Security Act. I clearly said in my post that I have respect for who is the documentary, and the right they have to define what is secret. I don't think it's right for the Grand President to add big business representatives to statements they haven't been close to saying – I haven't suggested that the EOS Committee should have competence to downgrade, not in the vicinity. What I'm trying to raise is that throughout that structure there is an opportunity for the Parliament to downgrade if, for the sake of its control, the Storting sees that the secret is being abused not only to take care of the security of the kingdom, which they have full support from me to do, but also to take care of the convenience of the government, which is the case in the limited document we are now talking about. It is then, for me, that it is in principle very serious that it is said in the comment, in the statements made by the President-in-Office and in the statements made by the President-in-Office that a principal – they have used that word – should never use that access. That's when I think we're on constitutionally wild roads, and that's the reason that's serious. It's possible to disagree on whether or not the document we're talking about should be upgraded or not. I can say that in that document it says less than what is already publicly known. We're in a situation where we can no longer discuss what we knew in advance, because it's going to be a secret around what we're doing, as well as that there's a lot to keep secret, which we agree on. In this situation, when the reason is that the Storting can never use its right to degrade, for it is to be decided by the government, the Storting has abdicated in terms of its control function, because then the Supervisory Board of the Storting, the Supervisory Committee of the Storting – in this case a special committee – is opposed to assessing whether the secret is reasonable or not. And with a government, and in particular with a Ministry of Defense, where we have seen that there is an ever-increasing conflict over secrecy, not least in relation to the relationship with the Riksrevision, and where we in the Control Committee have still experienced an increasing secrecy from the government and that we are not getting access to government documents, I think it is serious that the Storting is justifying that we should never use our democratic right, because then the government can lose confidence in the Storing. President, in our system, the question is, and should be, whether the government has confidence from the Storting – not whether the government has confidence in the Storing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e350	I react in the way that the President of the Storting is trying in an unreasonable way – I would say – to reproduce what the opposition parties have said and believe in this matter. None of the parties have indicated at least that we should shift the legal competence in violation of the Safety Act from the Information Society to the EOS Committee. No, but it is important for us to listen to the recommendations made by the Supervisory Authorities of the Great Britain. It's just one of the many arguments – some of them can be reproduced here from the pulpit, others can't – because the parties at Stortinget think that we should listen to those advices. I respond to whether Stortinget can do the job or not. Reference is made to the processes under way, the Special Committee, that all representatives of the Stortinge are given the opportunity to read the documents of the case. But it must be clear that democratic control is being kept secret. One shall have a reasonably narrow view of democracy if one believes that as long as only the 169 representatives of the Storting can have an open and informed conversation, the democratic interest is taken care of. I do not believe that such a view of democracy is defended by the bourgeois parties in other contexts. On the contrary, I see that as a quite clear violation of a democratic tradition. So it's said that the Storting by voting for a proposal to change the law to downgrade this summary review the government. It's like in this distribution of power, it's the Greatness that's at the top. The size is in its full right to degrade documents. That's the game rules we have. So it's going to be very rare. We then carried out a thorough examination of this matter and concluded that it is worth listening to the EOS Committee. It's also about how we put Storting's control function in the future, the authority of Storting's control function, the authority of our control bodies in charge of the services.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e359	If you have a bit of a bad case, it is not unusual to assign other representatives things they don't mean, and then to polish against that kind of strawman. It is not unknown when it comes to the representative Tetzschner, but it is more unusual from the president. Today, you use that kind of argument from that edge to justify and defend a secret that is hard to stand for with a straight back. As previously mentioned by others from the pulpit: no one has proposed that everything should be public. But the summary, as the sample says, can be public, we are to be public. So that case is dropped dead, and we can put that strawman away in the rest of the debate, we get hope. Then it's a shame that there's been a politicized decision, that the government parties and the Progress Party who were in government when the case was going on, for political reasons, are ringing around the secret team for which the department and the Council of State are in favour. It is understandable that this is done, because it is a embarrassing matter for the government – and it is a difficult matter. So everyone can understand that it is convenient that from the side of Stortinget – at the government parties and the Advance Party – you go in to keep secret. But there's nothing more – let's say – venerable about it for that reason. We should stand up for important principles of transparency, when appropriate, in order to ensure democratic control of the secret services, which cannot be confined to the reading of the report by 169 people. What is a shame is that this secret, which the President, Tetzschner and others defend with strawmen, stands in the way of a necessary public debate, and not least that we can regain confidence in the secret services. When far more than what is stated in the summary, for the most part is publicly known – for the most part, split meters are rewritten in all the largest newspapers in the country, and not least the NRK – and everyone is aware of this, a secret of the debate could stand in the way of people regaining confidence in the services, which may have been weakened as a result of what appears to be, based on publicly available information, complete amateurism at all stages. It is serious about the government parties and the secret team of the Progress Party – that it stands in the way of that restoration of trust, and not least stands in the way of real democratic control, beyond the one they have in this Chamber. The right should understand that this includes more than those sitting on the Stortinget — including the ability of the population to participate in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e370	I have to say I'm a little surprised at the tone of this debate – I really am. It's a difficult matter in many ways, and there are arguments both for and against, but I have to say that it's the fact that the mayor chooses a rhetoric about the red-green parties and their positions on the matter, is funny in such a case. Two of her partners have not even spoken in this debate. At least let's be careful about that kind of argument when we're going to discuss such a difficult and important matter. Then I have to say that the Security Act is important. It is an important framework for the work we are doing. However, it should not be possible for the Safety Act itself to amputate discussions on the control function of the Storting, how it should be handled and what debates it should contribute to. So I think one should be careful with the way one uses the safety code. We established control functions on the part of Stortinget regarding the security services, and it cannot be amputated by saying that the Security Act trumps the discussion about how to deal with that control. The third thing I want to comment on is that there is no one here who has asked for everything to be published, as the President-in-Office also said in his post. What the minority here says, after a difficult balance, is that one should listen to the Storting's own control body, which has rarely asked for a summary of a report to be uninstalled.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e379	I listened with anticipation to the submissions from the representatives of Andersen and Hövstegård, because I had expected to respond to my small request to explain why the Constitutional Control of the Storting against the government is decisively hampered by the procedure set out by the Presidency, which respects the role-sharing in the administration and in the Security Act. It is, to my knowledge, quite significant that there have been no such arguments. A review tone in the hall from the minority has been that the institutional control of the Storting is impossible if not everything can be in the newspaper. In that case, it is an incredible defeat for what you think Stortinget can process of information that is silent without going further. No one here has argued convincingly that the Storting cannot make its control functions valid under the Constitution. On the other hand, what really undermines the possibility of the Storting is that the administration will be deterred from sending silent information to the Storting because we have gradually been given a culture of leakage here in the hall – and also in the committee. It's the Biggest that's losing, and it's also that part of the Biggest's job that's controlling the government's office, that's losing weight. I also think the minority should think about it being appealed to the majority to equip the EOS Committee with an authority that apparently means disengaging one's own responsibility to assess this and turning itself into a sand-provoking body for the EOS Committee. However, the EOS Committee is also, in line with what has been promoted in the evaluation, dependent on an interaction with the secret services, and that is by definition not all they should have insight into. Their ability to handle their classified information will also have an impact on their insights, and thus on what the Storting will be aware of. There is also a completely different reason for us to think through, especially in a case that could involve any foreign operations, and that is that Norway, with this somewhat naive attitude, and because we are unable to process secret information, is not given information from other intelligence services, which we depend on to cooperate with to make the country safe. It worries me.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e392	The representative, Mr Andersen, has spoken twice before in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e398	Unfortunately, I had to take the floor and just for the record say that in terms of the quality of parliamentary control, I have recorded that both the E-service and the PST have been very clear in recent years that more transparency gives greater confidence. It's a profile they're marketing themselves. Then it is natural that we consider whether everything that is kept secret should be kept secret, because they have an explicit view that, in addition to the fact that the Storting can do its control, it is good that as little as possible be kept secret from the public. That's the reason why. To the representative Tetzschner – it is not that everything should be in newspapers, but a small summary. Finally, in the case of the EOS Committee, yes, it's our body, but we choose by our actions whether we give or take them authority. When they said for the first time in 25 years that they believe this is something that can be published, yes, we believe that we are not obliged to put ourselves behind them, but that we agree with them and therefore also contribute to giving them authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e407	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e424	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes per party group and 3 minutes per government member. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e431	Let me start by thanking the Committee for good cooperation on a very straightforward matter. The proposition we're about to deal with now shows a positive side of the pandemic. We get cleaned up in the law and modernised something that we probably hadn't come up with ourselves, it wouldn't have been for the corona. Last year we got a temporary law on exemption from physical meeting requirements, etc. in corporate law to remedy the consequences of the covid-19 outbreak. There are some of these that are now making permanent. No matter how sorry we are of Teams, Zoom, Skype, old hands and muting, there's no doubt that they can be effective instruments in business as well. For many companies, it may be so useful to use electronic instruments when holding meetings, which meet with physical audiences. The proposition also deals with changes to the Shares Act, the General Shares Act, the Cooperative Act and the Constitutional Act as a result of brexit. These changes mean that British citizens residing in the EEA territory or the United Kingdom as well as EEA citizens residing in the United Kingdom are subject to the obligation of access and can be chosen for trust in Norwegian enterprises. Finally, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Government Parties, I will report that we are going to support proposal No. 1 in the settings. It's not a revolutionary proposal, but for us it's perfectly curative that a majority of the board can have the last words about whether the meeting is to be held physically or electronically, instead of that authority with the chairman, on which the government's proposal was originally based.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e442	I guess that's really no reason to say so much after what came from the case rapporteur. I just want to deal with the proposal that the Center Party is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e447	The representative of Geir Adelsten Iversen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e452	First of all, I would like to thank the Stortinget for being able to deal quickly with the proposal for a law on changes in company law, on the implementation of meetings and geographical association requirements. The legislative proposal equates physical and electronic meetings and facilitates decisions without having to meet physically. Electronic meetings may reduce travel costs and rental of premises and facilitate the participation of disabled people in meetings. Minor travel activities are also positive for the climate. At the same time, there is no requirement for meetings to be conducted electronically. The companies are given flexibility to decide for themselves which form of meeting is appropriate for them in the individual case. The conduct of the annual and general meetings shall be sound. The core of the requirement of soundness is that the meeting must be held in accordance with the rules of procedure of the law. Although companies are given greater flexibility, owners should still be able to exercise their ownership rights. The legislative proposal also simplifies the procedure for several companies and increases the possibility of signing documents electronically. The legislative proposal allows enterprises to continue to have British board members, members of business meetings or day-to-day managers residing in the United Kingdom, Northern Ireland and the EEA or EEA citizens residing in the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland. Implementation of the legislative proposal is subject to a free trade agreement between Norway and the United Kingdom. I take note of the proposal from the minority of the Committee that a majority of the members of the Management Board should be able to require a meeting of the Board of Directors, whether physically or electronically. This was also assessed during the work on the legislative proposal. My opinion is that the chairman should decide the form of the meeting. The Chairperson has a special role in preparing the Governing Board’s case and the Chairperson is expected to take into account the involvement of other members of the Governing Board in the decision on the form of a meeting. The Management Board may, by a normal majority, lay down guidelines for the work of the Management Board, including for the selection of the form of meetings. In any case, the manner of administration of the Management Board must be reassuring. I also take note of the statements made by the rapporteur and, of course, relate to them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e471	No more people have asked for the floor. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e488	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to three rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e495	Since March 2020, we have been living in some sort of state of emergency. Now, hopefully, we're approaching the end of the pandemic, but there's still an unpredictable situation, and there's a need to extend some of the temporary provisions that were adopted during 2020. Covid-19 affects both the availability and consumption of medical devices and personal protective equipment. In this proposition, the Government promotes proposals for the extension of provisional provisions on measures to ensure access to medicinal products, medical devices and personal protective equipment under covid-19. The homes first entered into force on 26 May 2020 and expire on 1 June 2021. The Government proposes that the homes should last until 10 November 2021. The Committee has looked at the Stortingen calendar for the autumn, and given the great choice and then the meeting of the Nordic Council for week 44, the Committee has decided to extend it until 1 December 2021. This will allow a further accumulation of time to re-examine the provisions. I want to thank the committee, where everyone was willing to work quickly to get this through by 1 June. It is a unanimous committee that promotes this vote and supports the Government's proposal for an extension. The Coronapandemic has shown us that we need more international solidarity and multilateral cooperation, not less. As a small country, Norway is particularly dependent on cooperating with other countries. Cooperation with the EU has been essential to ensure that the population access to vaccines against covid-19. It has also been important for Norway’s access to other medical devices that have been crucial during the pandemic. The government has put preparedness high on the agenda. Two major social security and preparedness messages have been provided. Based on a review of organisation, contingency plans and legislation and the final report of the Corona Commission, the Government will submit a notification to the Stortinget when the pandemic is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e510	This matter is urgent. It is difficult for us to work well on the matter. Therefore, SV will support the proposal to have this for a little longer in the autumn, but we hope that the government will send proposals, if we need this again, much earlier, so that the new landfill can get good information and have more time to work on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e515	There is considerable uncertainty about the development of the pandemic in the future and a change in the infectious situation could occur rapidly. I'm also afraid that for the next half of the year we'll have to live with infection in society, with the risk of blooming of infection. There is therefore a need to extend the temporary provisions of the Health Protection Act until the autumn of 2021. The outbreak of covid-19 has led Norway to a crisis situation that the legislation does not fully address and it has been necessary to make adjustments and derogations from existing legislation. The pandemic affects both the availability and consumption of medical devices and personal protective equipment. The market for such products is global, as is the supply chain. The availability of medical devices and personal protective equipment has proved to be very demanding as a result of covid-19. In particular, there has been a lack of infectious disease protection equipment. At present, the need for sampling equipment and rapid tests is increasing. Norway is dependent on imports to meet the need for such products. In addition, we have experienced challenges related to the hamsing of medical devices and personal protective equipment. The proposal is an extension of the homes we've had since last year. Although there has been a decrease in both the number of infected and hospitalisations, the situation remains unstable, as there is still a large proportion of the unvaccinated population. There is also some uncertainty about how new mutations could affect development. It is therefore still important that adequate facilities are available. Medical equipment and personal protective equipment and their availability are essential for the national healthcare system to be able to handle the covid-19 pandemic adequately. I consider it likely that the measures taken to ensure access to medical devices and personal protective equipment, based on the temporary provisions of the Health Protection Act, will be necessary even after 1 June 2021. I am therefore pleased that the committee joins the bill that the government has promoted, and has turned around and dealt with this matter quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e526	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e543	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes to the President of the case, 3 minutes to each of the other party groups and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to three rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e550	More than a year ago, on 14 May last year, the Stortinget took a decision that the government would put in place as soon as possible a contingency model for Norwegian production of important medicinal products, including antibiotics. This has not happened, but I am proud of the entire committee – including the government parties, which should be praised since they come into this case – and that the government will immediately enter into dialogue to conclude agreements with production environments in Norway. The entire Committee proposes to conclude, where possible, pre-buying agreements for the production of vaccines in Norway. The pandemic has shown how vulnerable we are as a country to failure in the global pharmaceutical industry, and that we are a country that is almost 100 pst. depending on imports. It makes us very vulnerable to crises or disruptions in global supply lines. SV wants StatMed, state production of medicines, but we work hard for any proposal that can help the population to reduce drug shortages. The majority of the Committee considers it natural to start with the simplest first, as analgesics, anaesthetics, and antibiotics in the longer term. As well as all these medicinal products have expired, they can be produced in Norway without infringing established rights. The majority of the Committee notes that this is unfortunate and leads to a delay in strengthening the Norwegian production of medicinal products when the government does not follow up any more clear decisions of the Stortinget. The majority of Stortinget states clearly that the government and the Minister of Health have not followed up decisions that are very important under a pandemic. The government is in spite of the decision of the Storting. It's not acceptable. It is clear that we need a new government, which is acting to reduce drug shortages in Norway. We need a red-green government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e565	Would the representative like to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e570	Yeah, I'll take up the suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e575	Then the representative Nicholas Wilkinson has drawn up the proposals that SV together with the Workers' Party and the Center Party are behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e580	In 2019, the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness carried out an analysis of 25 different crisis scenarios. The two most at risk were both health incidents. It was pandemic and lack of medicine. Now we're in the middle of the pandemic, while we've experienced a significant increase in the drug shortage in recent years. It's time to prepare. Both pandemics and drug shortages are global challenges, but this does not mean that it is also not possible to take national action. It's not the first time we have these kinds of issues to deal with in the health and care committee this period. The working party has always been concerned that we need a more offensive approach to work to reduce the vulnerability of drug shortages. Therefore, it is positive, as the rapporteur also pointed out, that there is an overall committee that now wants a dialogue with relevant production environments with a view to concluding contingency agreements for the Norwegian production of important medicinal products and that, in addition, consideration is given to the possibility of setting up Norwegian vaccine production. But the Workers' Party wants to go further. That is why we tabled proposals that also point towards Nordic and, in particular, European cooperation. We already have an industry in this field, which we need to exploit even better. However, producing medicines is not a cookbook recipe à la Ingrid Espelid Hovigs, where you take some flour, you take a couple of eggs, and you take some yeast. There's a lot more going on. Often there are dozens of active substances to produce one drug — active substances that are currently produced in China and India. We have to make ourselves less vulnerable with the rest of Europe. Therefore, the Labour Party has put forward proposals to clarify how a Norwegian public-private cooperation in the production of medicinal products can contribute to making Norway and Europe less dependent on medicinal products and active substances produced outside our continent. And the bonus, in addition to reducing vulnerability to drug shortages, is several Norwegian jobs within this important field. The Labour Party also wants, and we have made proposals on it in the past, a national cluster for the production of vaccines for both humans, animals and fish. The question is often asked: what are we going to live on after the oil? There is no simple answer to that, but one of the many possibilities is actually to invest in increased production of important, critical drugs — and with the side effect that we can also help save lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e597	Today is a happy day – Stortinget deals with a proposal from the Progress Party on Norwegian production of important medicines. And this proposal has a majority. Yes, a unanimous committee is behind this. Today, Norway is almost 100 percent dependent on the import of medicinal products, making it highly vulnerable to crises or disruptions in the supply lines of the global market. For the Progress Party, it is an objective that in the future you can be self-sufficient in the most important medicines and have a production capacity for absolutely necessary vaccines. In Norway, we already have several pharmaceutical companies. The ability to build on the established industry has a high potential, which in turn could create new and more interesting jobs. In addition, there is a strong willingness to invest from private actors to build a large-scale vaccine production and to produce a licence for vaccine developers. However, for private capital to be released, it is absolutely essential that the State enter into a pre-buying agreement to ensure the priority supply of vaccine to the Norwegian population in the future. We have clearly noted how vulnerable we are as a nation by the fact that we now largely have to import important medicines, not least in a pandemic, where we have also been totally dependent on the production of other countries. From an emergency point of view, this is very unfortunate. With this decision, we can stand better armed by a possible later pandemic. This is very important in order to strengthen and secure our own preparedness. It is worth recalling that on 14 May 2020, the Stortinget decided that the government had to put in place ‘a contingency model for the Norwegian production of medicinal products, including antibiotics’. But what is now being adopted is a more long-term and good solution that not only contributes to the import of medicinal products and the construction of emergency stocks. We know that medicines have a shelf-life date that clearly limits how much stocks you can have. That is why the Progress Party is pleased that today the Stortinget ends up with the proposals of the Progress Party in general and clearly and clearly giving the government this mission. Today's decisions in this matter are both good health policy, good preparedness policy and, above all, good industrial policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e612	The rapporteur was concerned that the government is in spite of the Stortinget on this matter. That, I think, is a pretty dry claim. Once upon a time, this has been a long-term work, and the work on the lack of medicines is something that was started already in the previous period. The Health Directorate's work and reports, as it was referred to, are things that were just started by this government, and this is, as many people are faced with, a global problem. The main challenge is that very much of the production of generic medicines or active substances is in Asia and too little in our part of the world. There has been a trend that has gone on for decades. Now we can rejoice that this is turning around through good international cooperation, and at the latest yesterday we could read that the manufacturer Sandoz from Switzerland will invest over 1 billion. kr in antibiotic production in Norway. This is the way to go. The way to go is not to believe that Norway can become self-sufficient or that we can use a lot of state resources to produce individual substances in Norway. That's not the way to go. However, Norway has a lot to contribute in cooperation with other countries. So continuing European cooperation in this field, which the Minister of Health is doing, is the solution. Otherwise, everyone is happy that we agree on some good points. It's very easy for us to go into these points. Those who can read Today's Business today see that the government has already started to start vaccine production in Norway, a production that otherwise the red-greens dropped around 2012. It is also important for me to find out that when we think about production in an emergency context, we do not know what is missing. That's why I really believe in storing active substances and having the processes ready and a tender model or a standby model around it. The same applies to vaccines. When we agree to enter into advance agreements for the purchase of vaccines, it is actually a little bit demanding to know what vaccines we need. So there has to be a flexibility in this. In sum, I think the Stortinge agree that the state must take a more active role in this work. We can't trust global supply chains, which are too fragile. The most important thing we can do is to contribute to more production coming to our part of the world, to strengthen the pharmaceutical industry in Norway and to facilitate its growth. We must then facilitate the flow of foreign capital to Norway, and we must also ensure that all four medical policy objectives are met. It should be borne in mind by the Minister of Health in his further work, so that research and innovation are also taken into account when using new medicines, and that one not only has a one-sided focus on the cost of medicines.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e627	It is a reality that both the market and the supply lines for medicinal products are global. It is not realistic that Norway can become completely self-sufficient in medicinal products. That's not what you're suggesting, either. The proposal is to have a greater national preparedness for critically important medicinal products. We have proposed this before, and it has not been followed up. Furthermore, there is great joy in the fact that there is a joint committee behind the vote. I am more critical, because I see that the proposals have been moderated from the Progress Party, and I am simply afraid that the same can happen with these proposals as with the proposal we adopted a year ago. It is now moderated to ‘with a view to concluding contingency agreements’ from the establishment of such preparedness models. And one is now to ‘examine and, if possible, conclude pre-purchase contracts’ instead of concluding. The center party is behind the suggestions, but here's one completely dependent on one having a government that actually follows up. When you read the comments from the government parties, they argue clearly against these proposals. They refer to EEA legislation, which states that State aid law and public acquisition law make it impossible to automatically determine that medicinal products manufactured in Norway may be purchased by Norway. It further states that the construction of medicinal products production in Norway for reasons of preparedness is such a concern which may provide for exemptions from the EEA State-aided national production legislation. It even states that: ‘The experience of the pandemic suggests that funding for actions to strengthen and coordinate a commercial offer page, justified on emergency grounds, is not realistic, provided with the legal framework within which the public must operate.’;» One, therefore, takes this decision into account in the comments in the vote and states correctly that it is not realistic to get such a government to interpret EU legislation. This is how we are in the situation, if we are going to take them seriously, that the EEA stands in the way of increasing national drug preparedness. But it is of course positive that the government party is still on the proposals. That's what I mean, and I expect the Council of State is now following the will of the Storing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e650	The report of the Corona Commission shows that there has been no real shortage of medicinal products during the pandemic. We have seen that common sales channels for medicinal products, combined with targeted measures such as: emergency storage and marketing restrictions have been sufficient to ensure the availability of critical medicinal products. During stock building, as an additional preparedness measure, we have purchased raw materials in order to produce some critical intensive medicinal products. Crisis production has not been necessary because other measures have proved to be sufficient. In the further assessment of the future organisation of emergency stocks, the Health Directorate shall assess whether, in exceptional cases, individual active substances should be stored. Where some active substances are to be stored, procedures will be developed for this, as well as criteria for when and how crisis production should be implemented. When healthcare purchases medicinal products and vaccines, State aid legislation and public acquisitions are mainly applicable. It is demanding to favour a provider based on nationality given the legal framework within which the public must operate. The fact that other measures have worked well to ensure Norway’s access to medicinal products in a crisis situation such as covid-19 means that financing measures to strengthen and coordinate a commercial offer page, justified on emergency grounds, is uncertain. Of course, I ask the Stortinget to anchor any decisions within the regulatory framework that the Stortinget itself has adopted. Cooperation with the EU is of great importance for the management of the pandemic – not least in the field of vaccines. The Corona Commission is clear that international cooperation in the field of drug preparedness should be strengthened. The EU has clear ambitions to strengthen health preparedness cooperation in Europe with concrete proposals for joint action. This includes, inter alia: the development, production and procurement of medicinal products. The market and supply chains for both pharmaceuticals, raw materials and manufacturing are global, and Norway is a small country. Therefore, it is not an option to stand alone with national solutions to ensure this access. Both the Minister of Industry and I are also well acquainted with, among others. the discussion taking place in Denmark on the possibility of closer public-private cooperation in order to build up production capacity in the field of vaccines. It can also be seen that after the Danish government's play there have been several questions, including: related to the legal framework. The government will start work to look at the possibility of setting up the vaccine production preparedness facility in Norway and will just start work to look at both the legal framework around such an establishment and the possibility of a commercial basis for preparedness in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e669	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e674	I agree with the Council of States that we need European cooperation in this area, but at the same time it is important that we not only lean on other European countries on this issue, but contribute some of the solutions themselves. It is, as others have been, one year since the Storting made decisions in a similar direction, and in an even clearer direction than what we seem to be doing today in this matter. I am registering the enrolment with the Minister of Economic Affairs of today. But my specific question is: What action has the government actually taken so far to establish agreements with Norwegian manufacturing environments that can help to strengthen the preparedness of important medicinal products, what has been the content of such a dialogue, and when can we expect concrete agreements to be in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e681	What has been done specifically specifically is to follow up the work that we had started. One of the challenges in the political discussion about this is that the government is doing a lot of work in this area, and then the Storting will make decisions along the way, while the work is in progress. It is this discussion I have had with the representative in several rounds. The matter that was professionally prioritised in the investigation work undertaken by the government in this area was to get the preparedness related to more wide-ranging antibiotics – preparedness and production. That work is good cooperation with the business community about it. Possibilities studies are under way, and the next phase of that work has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e686	In the letter of reply to the Committee, the Council of State writes: ‘I understand that the start-up or extension of the production of medicinal products, such as all other commercial activities, may lead to the need for risk capital. However, health authorities must deal with the framework set by legislation. I therefore recommend that the Stortinget not adopt the proposals of the representatives.' Now the government has also gone into the proposal, with a somewhat moderate wording, but it is interesting to know how the government has intended to follow up these proposals, which are very concrete in both pre-purchasing agreements and having a dialogue with private people for the purposes of pharmaceutical production in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e696	I do not see the decisions that are being dealt with today, and which the majority are behind, as problematic. It was also not the proposals that were made in the draft representative and to which my answer was related. It is precisely to take into account the framework within which this work must take place, which is important. Pre-purchase agreements have been the main solution in terms of our access to vaccines against covid-19. So that's nothing new. That's the way Team Europe has handled this. That is the way we have contributed to increased production capacity in Europe as well. We have not done this from a national perspective, but from a common European perspective. This is why work on a European Health Union is so important in this context — and also on the possibility for Norwegian industry to contribute to a common European preparedness in this area. It must be borne in mind that Norway, as a small country, should also seek international cooperation when building a preparedness capacity in Norway in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e701	The Norwegian health service, the public health service, has a lot of money, and that's good. But it is difficult to get private companies in Norway to work with the public health system. For example, Curida produces medicines. They're exporting everything. It is very difficult to get good agreements with hospitals or the public health services in the municipalities. We've learned a lot from Statoil. They have made good tenders, so Norwegian companies in Norway can win tenders – when we make good tenders. Does the government have any plans or work in progress to fix – let us say – some of the tenders to comply with the EEA legislation so that Norwegian producers can have an agreement with the Norwegian public health service?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e708	Yes, it is also evident from the health nutrition report that Stortinget has dealt with, including: refers to the work done by the Hospital Purchase to have a dialogue with the Norwegian supplier industry to see what opportunities are available, precisely because the Norwegian supplier industry is also able to provide solutions to Norwegian hospitals that the hospitals may not be asking for themselves, simply because they are not aware of the solutions. So it's done, in my opinion, good work in Hospital Purchases also in this area. Then it is a great advantage to have a large joint buyer in this area. But you have to be able to compete on equal terms. The Norwegian industry is not built up because it has been protected from competition, especially by the Norwegian oil industry. It is built up by the fact that it has tolerated international competition, and thus won by being the best, and not necessarily the cheapest.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e713	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e718	Just cards to follow up and comment on a couple of posts: the party of progress, like Kjersti Toppe, takes up some concern about how the government actually follows up this time. When a unanimous committee is so clear, it is also important for the Progress Party that you do not train it when you read what the government parties themselves write. What I want to clarify from here is that it's important to follow up, and I expect it to now follow up without being trained. So the Council of State, referring to the Corona Commission, says that the pandemic has not significantly affected the supply of medicinal products to Norway. I would like to remind the Council of State that the lack of medicinal products in general, regardless of the pandemic or not, has escalated since 2014. According to the Swedish Medicines Agency, 115 deficiencies were recorded in 2014, while 1,396 were registered in 2019. It has not been said that it is serious initially, but it is for drugs in general. For individuals it is not entirely unproblematic to have replacement products. It's a serious and ominous sign that means it's important, and I expect the Council of State to follow up well, even now in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e725	It's quite strange to hear the suspicion that the government will train what's being adopted here. As I see it, much of what is adopted is already going on. We can read in Today’s Business that the government wants to support and initiate vaccine production in Norway, and that is the intention of this decision. This work was set up before this proposal came forward, as was the preparedness and production of medicinal products. It's a work that's already in progress. How's one clear to train? Then things that have already started have to be slowed down, and I don't think the Minister of Health is going to do that. I think it's going to be very special when the Center Party is so concerned with our comments on this matter – that reminding us that we actually have a code for this, and actually take over into a grand process that here there's some legislation that needs to be followed, and actually put in as a sort of reservation that we have to do this in the right way. Because the truth is, if we break this code, it will go beyond Norwegian production. It'll go out on Norwegian companies if we do this the wrong way. The Norwegian pharmaceutical industry has a high export potential, which the representative Wilkinson had in mind. Curida exports a lot, we have old Algeta, now part of Bayer, which is a large producer of Xofigo, a very large product internationally, and several other companies export a lot. It's not that Norway is not competitive, but if we're going to build up more, we have to do it right. As I said in my previous post, we're pretty much in agreement here. But there's a suspicion the government won't. Well, the government will really, and more will, and we'll take care of that together.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e737	The representative of Morten Stordalen has spoken twice earlier and gets the word for a brief remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e742	I understand that it falls to Sveinung Stensland heavily to the chest that it is expected that the government will follow up a unanimous committee. It may be in the light of other things that have not been done – not least this matter, when over a year ago the government asked to start as soon as possible. As it did not happen, there is a reason for that. The government is going to have a good time to get things going quickly in other areas, and that means you would have done this even if you wanted to. It is only an expectation, and the Storting must be able to demand it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e747	I very much agree with the representative of the Progress Party – it is unusual, but it was a good post. I've talked to several of the people who work in the field – LMI, Curida, LO. They have tried to have a good conversation with the government to get many of these tasks started. It's been very difficult. I hear the Right saying the government has been working on this for many months. It's been a little bit hard to understand for the others in the field, so there's two very different stories. It is fine that the Right says that they will vote in favour of proposals that they believe are in progress. In many other cases, the Right says that they are voting against proposals if they are in progress. Now I hope that the Right votes for all the proposals that they believe are being made by the government. When the Right vote against proposals, it becomes very clear that the Government and the Right are not working on proposals in other matters that we have on the table in the Health and Care Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e756	There is a reason why the opposition is concerned about how the government will follow up these decisions. When the representative Sveinung Stensland says that this is what they are doing and we don't have to worry, it's very strange that they haven't written one word about this in the settings. They have only written that this is very problematic against the EEA State Aid Code and for public procurement. They are far from saying that the pandemic is not an argument that there is a need for increased drug preparedness in Norway – it is sold in other areas. Then I would like to remind you that there is a pandemic we are experiencing now, and in the crisis scenario from the directorate, lack of medicine was the greatest probability of crisis. We haven't experienced a national drug shortage crisis yet, and then it becomes unwise to show that it went well under the pandemic that we had now. In his letter of reply he warned directly against the proposals, but now, when it says ‘examined’ and in the long term, they are suddenly OK. And when the government party in the notes does not write one word about that they support the proposals, but only write comments about problematization, there is reason to ask questions about how sincere one stands behind the intent of these proposals, which a collective opposition was some about last year, May 14, which a collective opposition is now also some about, and which has received support from the government parties. We're going to follow along with and ask how these decisions are being followed up. I think there's a great need for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e765	It is to this extent easy to agree with the Progress Party now presenting from today's pulpit. At the same time, however, it may be useful to recall, when the representative of the Progress Party, Stordalen, refers to the explosive shortage of medicines from 2014 to 2019, that the Progress Party itself put into government, and they have been in government and have had the opportunity to have a greater impact on this as regards the emergency agreement for the Norwegian production of important medicinal products. But it's good that they've seen the light after they got out of the government, and now they're taking part in pushing the government, along with the rest of the opposition, in this field. Then I will challenge and encourage the government parties to see the possibilities and not just problematize regarding the EEA legislation here. I really believe that we need European cooperation in this area, but there is also a problem with regard to the lack of medicines that not only the market is going to solve alone. We are totally dependent on having good supplies of critically important medicines. As I said before, in the previous post, DSB has estimated several thousand deaths in a drug shortage scenario. It is clear that it is a political task to ensure that the risk is minimised, just as it has been a political task to deal with the challenges we are now facing related to the pandemic. Then the Workers' Party has promoted two proposals in the Committee on which there is no unanimous agreement, on which we have preliminary support from the SV and the Centre Party. I believe, in fact, that the government parties in their arguments do not disagree very much with looking further at the possibilities of Norwegian public-private cooperation, in view of the fact that together in Europe we can make ourselves less vulnerable to the dependence we have on drugs and active substances outside of our continent. The question of vaccine clusters is also something I hope both the government parties and not least now the opposition party The Progress Party will look at once again whether they can actually support, because here there are opportunities for important developments in the area of medicines we need, and not least for a focus on Norwegian jobs in a European context, which I think would be wise.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e774	It is not that the government has not followed up the decision of 14 May 2020. The point is that the government had started it working long before the decision of 14 May 2020. In that context, it might be right to use the word resistant, because I think the majority of the Storting has developed a resistance to taking in information that they get from the government in this matter, for this is the Storting informed about in a lot of ways. If some representatives of big business need to follow what I am now saying, I would recommend going in and looking at the assignment given to the Health Directorate on 6 March 2020 – and I would just like to inform the Stortinget that 6 March 2020 is before 14 May 2020 – as a follow-up to a mission that had been given in significant time before that. The Health Directorate’s report on antibiotic production in Norway was delivered to the Ministry on 29 May 2020. It is very strange if that report should have come to the department as a follow-up to a decision made in Stortinget on 14 May. So this work was well under way long before the Stortinget made its decision, but the majority still insist and claim that the government has not followed up this decision. I have to ask that a reader read the information that a sheep from the government, and take it in, if one is to make such serious accusations that the government does not follow the decision of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e781	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e798	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes to the President, 3 minutes to each of the other party groups and 3 minutes to the members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e805	Thank you very much to the Workers' Party for promoting our proposal later. I'll go and take the second dose of the vaccine, so I have to run after this post. We should protect our children. It is good that children get vaccine against HPV, both girls and boys. However, Norway has chosen a cheaper vaccine that does not protect children from genital warts when they grow up. Denmark has a vaccine against HPV and genital warts. It also has Sweden, but not rich Norway. SV believes that priority should be given to protecting our children and adults against gender warts. Several Norwegian doctors personally pay for a better, broader vaccine against HPV than the vaccine we have in the paediatric vaccination programme. It becomes a two-part health care service when someone who has knowledge and money can get a broader vaccine than other children. That's what SV will change. SV wants the pediatric vaccination programme to be even better and to have a broader protection vaccine. SV promotes with the Workers' Party proposals to obtain a vaccine that protects against HPV and genital warts. The proposal does not say that we should cut agreements tomorrow, but that new vaccines that protect the wider need to enter into the programme whenever possible. SV will vote secondary for the proposal of the Centre Party. It's a little weaker, but better than nothing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e816	I would first like to thank the Committee for good cooperation in the matter of HPV vaccines and genital warts, delivered from SV. The Committee points out that one is currently offering a vaccine against the five most common carcinogenic HPV types. However, vaccines are being developed over time, and in Denmark and Sweden the purchase of vaccines that also protect against viruses that cause genital warts has gone hand in hand. Norway has chosen not to do so and does not purchase vaccines that include it. Here the committee separates the layers, and I will now switch to the minority's comments in the setting. The working party is engaged in good child vaccination and not least in the development of vaccination protection. This means that we support the proposers in that we, like both Sweden and Denmark, offer a HPV vaccine that also protects against gender warts. It is sad that the government with the Right in the head does not want the same thing. The cost of making a change is small, but the burden on those involved is great. That is why we want to include new, innovative vaccines in the paediatric vaccination programme. I take this up with the proposal from the Workers' Party and SV and I can also report that we vote in a secondary vote for the proposal of the Centre Party in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e827	The representative Hege Haukeland Liadal has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e832	There are several good reasons for the proposal to offer a vaccine against HPV-related cancer that also protects against genital warts. What I think is problematic is more fundamental: whether it is right that the Storting should go in and decide what kind of vaccine to offer in the paediatric vaccination programme. There is a particular problem if there is a situation where there is one provider of this vaccine. This also means that authorities may have to accept any price, and they may come in a situation where resource use does not correspond to health benefits. We mean in principle that this bias does not belong in the Storting. The balance between medical benefit and cost must follow the normal routines and the rules for prioritisation in health services. That is the background to our proposal: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that a method assessment is carried out on vaccines that protect against both HPV-related cancer and genital warts and, in this context, to assess the provision of such a vaccine in the paediatric vaccination programme.’ This proposal was described by SV as better than nothing. I think it's a little demeaning – I think this is a very good and sensible proposal that the Storting could have actually gone into. Now you can do this even if the Storting doesn't make the decision about it, and that's what I'm going to do. So that's our suggestion. To the foundation that was also mentioned in the media, that there were a lot of corpses that buy this vaccine for their children: I think it doesn't apply to all of them at least, but when it becomes known, there might be more people who think that one should have done it. But it's not an argument that a special group does this. What's important politically is that what's offered is given to everyone, no matter what the background. Then we have to do it the right way, and I think it doesn't go through the big room, but through the ordinary procedure for health care priorities. And then I look forward to the second vaccine being offered to everyone. With that, I've taken up the proposal of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e848	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e853	I waited deliberately to draw myself to Kjersti Toppe was going on, because I was absolutely sure that I could say what I am saying now: I almost entirely agree with Kjersti Toppe. We are fully in line with this matter. It would be totally wrong for the Storting to adopt the vaccines used in the pediatric vaccination programme. That would be something completely new. The proposal put forward by the Central Party is not so bad at all. The second is not good at all, because then we have broken a limit by the Storting entering and detailing which vaccines and to the extent that medicines are to be used. It should be a professional decision. However, in the context of a methodological assessment of this, it is necessary to consider that sex warts should be a priority for the paediatric vaccination programme. Is sex warts a disease that deserves space in the paediatric vaccination programme? You have to decide about that, too. I am not sure that if we take the big debate on what diseases we should prioritise when choosing diseases to enter the vaccination programme, gender warts will be one of them. In fact, with the vaccine we use now, we will – as it looks – be rid of HPV-related cancer in Norway over a generation, and that is absolutely amazing. I am very happy that we got a collection program for girls in place, and I am very happy that we had HPV vaccination for boys – boys can also get several variants of HPV-related cancer. This is an interesting debate, but we must also be principled here. And in order to go back to the proposal of the Centre Party: if a method assesses this and, in addition, opens up more expensive vaccines covering genital warts, a person must also decide whether or not to want genital warts to be prioritised as a disease entering the paediatric vaccination programme.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e864	The HPV vaccine was included in the paediatric vaccination programme to provide protection against HPV-related cancer. The vaccine was introduced for girls in the vaccination programme in 2009 and this government extended the programme to offer HPV vaccines to boys in the seventh class stage from the autumn of 2018. The infection with HPV is very common. Over 70 pst. the population receives a genital HPV infection during its sexually active life. At any time is about 10 pst. of the population infected. For most, HPV does not produce any symptoms and infection passes by itself. However, some people get persistent infection that can develop into cancer. In Norway, the vaccine Cervarix is given in the vaccination programme. This vaccine gives equal protection to Gardasil 9, up to 90 pst., against the premise of cervical cancer. It provides direct protection against the two HPV types that cause more than 70-75 pst. of cervical cancer cases in Norway and further indirect protection against other carcinogenic HPV types. It has therefore been assessed that Cervarix provides equivalent protection against HPV-related cancer to that of the other HPV vaccine, Gardasil 9. The aim of the vaccination programme is to prevent HPV-related cancer. Cervarix was awarded the vaccine offer in 2016. The two vaccines were assessed as being as good as measured against the quality assessment criteria, i.e. protection against HPV-related cancer regardless of HPV type. Protection against warts was also assessed, but was not decisive for which vaccine used the tender. There are no vaccines other than Cervarix and Gardasil 9 available on the Norwegian market. In the bid made in 2020, Norway received only offers from producers of Cervarix. As a result, no other vaccines were involved in this acquisition. Norway is one of the countries in the world with the highest level of vaccine coverage for the HPV vaccine. A new study from the Swedish Institute of Public Health, the University of Oslo, the Cancer Register and Harvard University estimates that cervical cancer can almost be eradicated in Norway by 2039. This is very joyful and shows that the vaccination programme is functioning as intended. The study shows that a switch to Gardasil 9 will not lead to faster eradication of cervical cancer in Norway. The HPV vaccine will save many lives in the years to come and is therefore an important public health measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e879	No one has asked for a reply, and others have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e896	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes to the President, 3 minutes to each of the other party groups and 3 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e903	The Committee examines a proposal from the Progress Party to impose stricter language requirements on health workers. In this case, they have made three proposals, one on identifying language skills, another on Norwegian training, and finally a proposal on the requirement to have passed a language test. Good language skills are important. In health care, it is particularly important to understand each other, both what is heard and what is said. Good language skills contribute to a safe and good health service. The opposite can quickly lead to situations that threaten patient safety. Language requirements were introduced to obtain authorisation in 2017 for those with training outside the EU/EEA area. As far as I am concerned, these requirements did not have retroactive effect, and they therefore do not apply to those who received an authorisation before 2017. Employer responsibility is an important part of working life. It is the responsibility of the employer to ensure that competence is correct, used as best as possible, and that competences are enhanced. A national supervisor has been developed for the recruitment of health professionals, which also addresses the employer’s obligation to provide the necessary language skills. Proper competence at the right time is an important component of good services for citizens. We're lucky in Norway, and this is pretty much in place. It's a fact that language is an important part of the competence you need to provide. Efforts have been made to develop a supervisor to say something about the skills needed where and the possibilities for skills enhancement. But as so much as the last year, the coronary apathy has affected this work, and it has been somewhat delayed, but I think this will be a good and useful tool when it comes into place. The great thing about all of us becoming more digital in the last year is that the skills enhancement measures have also found their way there and have improved, even though they are physically implemented separately. There are many digital courses and skills enhancement measures that you can take advantage of, and I know that many are already using them to ensure development and empowerment. The employer's responsibility also includes giving people time to the skills they need. With regard to the proposal to make the necessary legislative changes in order to introduce the requirement to pass a Norwegian test at the minimum B1 level for patient contact and B2 level for jobs requiring higher education, the majority of the Committee disagrees that this is a good instrument. This could weaken the employer's ability to assess the Norwegian skills needed in the various positions. As has been said, language requirements have been introduced for persons with training outside the EU/EEA area, and health care requirements are statutory for both employers and health professionals. Demanding additional language requirements may help to weaken employers' own responsibilities in providing sound health care.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e922	Members of the Committee of the Workers' Party believes that good Norwegian health skills are essential: for employees, for patients, for relatives and other health professionals. Lack of language skills can lead to dangerous situations for patient safety. Misunderstandings about medicines or treatment due to language challenges can have serious consequences. And in the care of the elderly, it can lead to uncertainty if users cannot communicate in good Norwegian with the employees. The members of the Working Party of the Committee note that professional organisations have already carried out studies confirming language problems in the health sector. The studies show, inter alia: at 40 pst. agree that such linguistic challenges in work have led to poorer care for patients, and 15 pst. by the asked nurses, it was considered that language problems at the workplace have led to a risk to life and health. In view of this, the members of the Workers' Party in the Committee believe that it is a wrong priority to use resources to identify language skills for all those working in the specialist and primary health services. Estimates from the SSB indicate that there will be a need for up to 110 000 more annual health and care work by 2035, and that in 40 years' time every third employee will have to work in the health and care sector. It is therefore not appropriate to exclude current candidates for the sector with strict language requirements. Excessive language requirements may help to weaken recruitment and not least regulate the employer's responsibility for adding the most qualified person to the position. The members of the Committee of the Workers' Party consider that the language requirements imposed must be relevant to the position and adapted to the service to be performed. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party's proposals are: ‘The government is asking for legal regulation of language requirements, combined with language training, which is necessary to ensure the quality and patient safety of healthcare, and to return to the Storting appropriately.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e940	Then the president perceives that the representative Hilde Kristin Holtesmo took up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e945	All 90 pst. by the nurses of the nurses’ association survey, they replied that there were language problems in the healthcare system, and 40 pst. agreed that language problems at their workplace had led to poorer care. The most serious finding in the study was that l5 pst. by nurses, it was considered that language problems at their place of work had led to a risk to life and health. Misunderstandings between patients and healthcare can have fatal consequences. That is why we provide interpreters with poor Norwegian knowledge in their meeting with healthcare. But it must also mean that it is equally important that Norwegian speakers understand what the doctor or nurse is trying to communicate. My father has been in hospital frequently in the last few years. There is nothing wrong with the treatment and care he is given, but it is a major challenge that he, who has very poor hearing, should also try to understand the lack of Norwegian knowledge in the dialogue between him and the employee. He gets scared and frustrated when he doesn't understand, and this has been even more challenging under the pandemic. Where mother could help him earlier, she is excluded from visiting him because of the infection. The Progress Party believes that a systematic monitoring of all specialist and primary health staff needs to be carried out. Non-compliant staff must complete Norwegian training and pass a Norwegian test in order to be able to continue in a position of patient contact. A review of Norwegian health professionals in Oslo and Drammen shows that the need to raise language skills among some employees is great. Most employees who have poor language skills have appreciated having received Norwegian training, and we propose this. The Progress Party proposes to make the necessary legislative changes to introduce requirements for passing Norwegian test at minimum B1 level for patient contact and B2 level for jobs requiring higher education. Such a requirement exists in the Kindergarten Act today. The party notes that government parties believe that it is natural for health and care employers to assess on an ongoing basis what language qualifications are necessary for the performance of different tasks. Well, if that were true, we would not have received such feedback as we have received from patients, relatives and employees. All respondents agree on the need to strengthen language training and support the introduction of language requirements and language control. Of course, the progress party thinks that it is both sad and a little scary that our proposals do not seem to be adopted today. Therefore, if our proposals fall, we will subsidiaryly support the proposal of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV. I take this into account the proposals made by the Progress Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e964	The representative of Kari Kjønaas Kjos has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e969	It is entirely decisive and fundamental that health professionals working in Norway are in charge of Norwegian language. The current system is not working well enough, so I have great sympathy and understanding for this proposal from the Progress Party. Today, the total responsibility for this area is added to the employer, and I believe that as a result we cannot shift all this responsibility over to each employer. That is also the background for us to make a proposal. We believe that the proposals from the Progress Party are well advanced in regulating employers' responsibilities, but we believe that this must be done, we need to work out language requirements, and then this must be combined with language training. I think it also has to be combined with extra control. This is necessary to maintain both quality and patient safety in health services. The Government Party and the Council of State believe that this is the employer's responsibility. My point is that it's been every year, but what do we do when this isn't working well enough today? Then we have to take new hold. We do not support the proposal from the Progress Party to map the language skills of all those added to the specialist and primary services. We have a lot of research that shows that this is a national problem, and we don't need to use the resources to map the language skills of everyone added, it's wasted with resources, but we very much support the need for new measures in this area. I see that in our hearing we get a lot of support from the professionals who have provided answers, both from the Medical Association, the Nurses' Association and the Dental Association. The trade union was probably the most critical of the proposal being too far in regulating employer responsibility. Both the Association of Nurses and the Medical Association also refer to the EEA Agreement, which limits the possibility of setting language requirements by authorisation, which is also an area where the Centre Party has been engaged before, and with which it is also important to do something.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e978	Skills in Norwegian orally and in writing are of great importance for good and sound health and care services for patients. The draft representative presented several comprehensive proposals to improve Norwegian service skills. I agree with the proposers on the importance of both language skills and communication, but I disagree with the instruments they propose. I refer to the fact that the responsibilities of the employer and individual health professionals for the healthcare service provided are sound, and in order to provide sound health and care services it is necessary to have adequate Norwegian knowledge. Language requirements were introduced on 1 January 2017 for applicants for authorisation with professional qualifications from outside the EEA and Switzerland. There are no plans to extend the requirement to other groups. As a contribution to the employer during his employment, a national counsellor on the recruitment of health professionals has been established, such as: deals with the employer’s obligation to provide the necessary language skills. In addition, the Health Directorate shall develop a national guide setting out examples of the necessary language skills in different types of jobs and for different types of health professionals. This is an extensive work which is currently being put at risk due to the high workload of the Health Directorate in relation to the pandemic. Different forms of language training and Norwegian courses, including online offers, have been developed, which can be a good tool for acquiring and improving Norwegian skills and can be used by employers and employees. I also refer to the offer of National Ageing and Health Competence Service, for the training of unskilled health workers. Changes have been made to the vocational plans to strengthen the follow-up and participation of participants in Norwegian as a second language. I believe that the responsibility of the employer for providing sound health and care services is crucial for the quality of patient care. To introduce a change in the law with general language requirements, as proposed, can, in my opinion, contribute to a weakening of this responsibility, thereby also weakening patient safety and quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e989	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e994	I see that the Medical Association in its audio recording calls for legislation to be introduced in line with Swedish, and that there should be specific rules on how language control should be documented. I want to ask the Council of State whether this is something that the government has assessed, and whether he can say anything more about how the Swedish model is, and why not introduce it in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1000	I think it is absolutely essential that the employer assess the skills of the people they employ. The more areas we go into and state regulate this and take away the responsibility, the less the trust we have in these services, the less the employer's assessment becomes when someone employs people, and the more one leans on schematic feedback on whether one meets one or the other national requirement. It's a completely wrong way to go. This is a development that, in my opinion, will impair patient safety and service quality. We are totally dependent on employers in the Norwegian healthcare system taking greater responsibility for clarifying whether the persons they employ have the necessary qualifications, including language requirements, but not least their suitability. That's what makes me very clear that this is a wrong direction to go – and not least run counter to the direction that everyone who talks about a trust reform wants to go in.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1005	Yes, I see that there are different arguments in this case, but I'm more stated that this doesn't work today, and what should one do to actually get better language skills among those who are health professionals? I have a question that both the Nurses' Association and the Medical Association address, which is that today there is the possibility to set language requirements by authorisation, which is a state responsibility, only for those who come from outside the EEA. Someone thinks that one should also be able to set language requirements for those who come from EEA countries, because there may be an equal need for it. How does the Council of State assess that requirement, to have greater language requirements for authorisation also within the EEA?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1012	With regard to the granting of authorisation within the EEA territory, the Professional Qualifications Directive provides for no possibility to impose that type of requirement. However, this does not mean that the employer should not require language when recruiting persons. This has more to do with mutual recognition of each other's authorization, i.e. the professional content of education, and it's independent of language. With regard to the suitability to perform the job, I believe that it should be assessed by the employer. I fully agree that this does not work optimally today, but there is reason to ask the question: What is the reason for this? Is it the case that we have already weakened the responsibility and trust of the employer for the recruitment of health professionals, and to a large extent already based on state assessments, relating to whether a person is qualified or not, and has left too little responsibility to the employer – that this is the reason why this is not working well enough today?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1019	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1038	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes to the President, 3 minutes to each of the other party groups and 3 minutes to the members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1045	The case concerns a proposal from the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and SV to ensure that women in an equal couple are given a real opportunity to choose which of the women in the couple are going to be pregnant with the children of the couple. The proposal also promotes a legislative amendment to the Biotechnology Act. The reason for the proposal is that the same parties in the agreement on the Biotechnology Act had an intention to ensure the possibility of partner donation within the couple regardless of medical needs, but the comments on the agreement were, however, written: ‘For same-sex couples, there are cases where one woman has good eggs, while the other woman has better conditions for carrying out pregnancy. The majority believe that in such cases it must be allowed to produce a child using the partner’s eggs and donated semen.’;» That is why until now the law has been interpreted as requiring a medical justification for partner donation, but it wants to amend the said batches with this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1057	Now, almost a year has passed since we took the decision on the Biotechnology Act, 26 May last year. It's nice that we can get this precision in place before summer. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur, who has ensured that we have had a smooth treatment of this clarification of the law. As the rapporteur pointed out, last year's treatment had a comment that used a medical case as an example of why this should be allowed, but it was never the intention of the proposers or parties to last year that it should be limited to this case. On the contrary, it was desired that partner donation be treated separately and different from normal egg donation. We are pleased that this is now coming into place, that women can now decide for themselves who will bring the child forward. We assume that this will come into place quickly, because we have received feedback that there are couples who have been affected by this strict interpretation of the law until now. I would also like to take this opportunity to stress the importance of achieving the other decisions taken in connection with the Biotechnology Act last year. We know that there are couples waiting for other parts of what we got through last year, whether it's early ultrasound, NIPT tests or other things. We are pleased that it is now contained in proposals for the revised national budget, and that we can achieve everything that we actually adopted on 26 May last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1068	A short post from the Center Party: We have made good for our position on both egg donation in general and this proposal in particular – and why we do not support it. In short, we believe that this means an extension of the right to egg donation by removing the current principle that egg donation must be a medical reason. Then legislation goes even further in the direction that assisted conception should be a right and not health care in case of infertility and involuntarily child ejaculation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1075	Lesbian couples should have the opportunity to donate eggs to their partner. SV, together with the Workers' Party and the Progress Party, has opened up for party donation, but the government has misunderstood, or the intention, as I understand, has not been very clear. So now this has been legal only for those who have medical reasons. In an earlier interpellation, we, together with the Labour Party and the Progress Party, were clear as to what the majority meant in this matter, but the government has not changed after that matter of misappropriation. Therefore, we now have to overrun the government once more. It will be a great advantage for similar couples to get this opportunity, both because there is less physical stress on egg withdrawal and hormone periods in the very conception, and – not least – economic. I dare to claim that most of the assisted conception, at least among lesbian couples, is currently taking place in private clinics, and this is a precious affair. It is very likely that more like-minded couples would have more children if the financial burden were not so risky and large. It is very important for SV that egg donation does not become a market. We've seen in brochures from the United States that people can buy eggs and choose women. Therefore, egg donation should be completely anonymous, but it does not create a market for people who love each other and thus will also help each other. I'm a lesbian myself. My partner has recently given birth to our first child, and it's easy to think that if I want to give birth to a child, the process can become a little easier as we already have some eggs on the freezer. It's also nice to think that I can feed a 100 pst. The biological sibling of our son. This is a great progress for both lesbians and transfamiliars.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1086	I would first like to congratulate the representative Lerbreck on having had a child, it was very nice to hear. The proposal under consideration today is a follow-up to the changes made to the Biotechnology Act last June, which entered into force on 1 January of this year. These are changes that the government does not support. However, this has not, of course, had any bearing on the Ministry's interpretation of the legislative changes. Our assessment has been that the legal text and the text of the vote have not given room to interpret the law in line with the majority's intention. I am therefore pleased that the Stortinget now deals with a bill that cleans up this, and which is also a bill that the majority of Stortinget has received legal assistance from the department to design. It is important that both the legal text and the preparatory work on the legal text make clear the meaning of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1093	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 7th@item: inlistbox Case No. 8 and 9 will be treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1124	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes to the rapporteur, 3 minutes to each of the other political groups and 3 minutes to the members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1131	On behalf of a unanimous committee, I present the issues of copyright for copyright and consent to the Marrakech Treaty to facilitate access to published works for people who are blind, have impaired vision or have other disabilities that make reading difficult. The Committee agrees with the proposed legislative amendments and ratification of the Marrakech Treaty of 27 June 2013. The reality of the matter is about improving access to literature for people who cannot see, or in other ways have challenges to read, by making literature available in alternative formats. The actual implementation of the detailed obligations will take place through the regulations of the copyright law in line with the assumptions underlying the copyright law previously dealt with by the Stortinget. The background to the Treaty is what World Blind Union has called the Hunger Food. In 2016, the World Intellectual Property Organisation believed that 285 million people worldwide cannot read because of blindness or other visual impairments. Only between 1 and 7 pst. of the books of the world are arranged for them. Norway signed the Marrakech Treaty in June 2014 and entered into force in September 2016. Today there are 75 countries in addition to the EU which are parties to this Treaty. In order to fulfil our obligations under the Treaty, it is necessary to introduce rules allowing the exchange of available formats between the States Parties. By agreeing with the decisions agreed by the Committee, the exchange of available formats between the various national audio and Braille libraries and the exchange directly to persons covered by the scheme will become a reality. With that, we hope that the famine will end, so that more people get literature available in a way that enables them to acquire it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1142	It is important to say that I am pleased that an overall committee is joining the government's proposal to ratify the Marrakech Treaty and integrate the Marrakech Directive into the EEA Agreement. Furthermore, it is gratifying that the Committee supports the proposal to make some minor but necessary changes to the copyright law, so as to provide an adequate basis for the implementation of the Marrakech obligations in the regulation. The background to the Marrakech regulation is what the rapporteur on the matter had to say, and what the World Federation of Blinds has called the Bohunger Emergency. There is a lack of books in the world that are accessible to people who are blind, have impaired vision or have other disabilities that make it difficult to read. This is particularly true in least developed countries. That means that much of the world's population has no access to information and knowledge. I believe that this is a democratic problem and I believe that the rapporteur agrees with that. It is gratifying that the Great One too agrees. The objective of the Marrakech Treaty and the Marrakech Directive is to improve and facilitate access to literature for this target audience. The obligations allow for the production of specimens of copyrights in accessible formats, e.g.: in the form of audiobooks or periodicals. Access shall be free of charge for people who are blind or have other disabilities that make reading difficult. Furthermore, the accessible copies shall be available for cross-border exchange through a network of approved entities. In this way, persons who need books in accessible formats may have access to copies produced and organised for the target audience in other countries. This will particularly benefit the blind population of the poor part of the world. For example, people in the target population in South America will have access to books in Spanish in an accessible format, from Spain. For Norwegian target people too, this would be positive by providing access to literature in accessible formats from, for example: Great Britain and the United States. The Ordinary Works Act already has provisions that address the need for the organisation of literature for the blind and others with disabilities that make it difficult to read, but there is still a need for changes in the legislation to implement the Marrakech obligations. In line with the 2018 proposals for the treatment of new copyrights, the substantive content of the Marrakech obligations will be implemented in the regulation of the copyright law. The Ministry of Culture has sent a proposal for a hearing, with a deadline of 25 May. It is important that people who are blind, have impaired vision or have other disabilities that make it difficult to read have the possibility of reading books in a similar way to those without such disabilities. I believe that by ratifying the Marrakech Treaty and incorporating the Marrakech Directive into the EEA Agreement, we are taking an important step in the right direction to achieve this objective.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1161	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 8 and 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1178	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1185	Let me start by thanking the Cooperation Committee on the matter. Although the red-green parties stand alone on the proposals that have been promoted, it is not because we do not agree with the serious challenge picture described in the proposal for a representative. We all agree that everyone should have equal opportunities, regardless of background. Different forms of racism and discrimination are involved in pushing people into the outside world, and this can have major consequences for individuals. We know that today there is discrimination based on ethnicity and religion in schools, in working life and in society. In this case, the Committee refers to the detailed reply from the Minister for Culture and Gender, which is coordinated with five other departments. Here is a description of the work undertaken by the government in this area. The Committee also refers to the consultations that have taken place, stressing that racism and discrimination are a societal problem that can have a significant impact on those affected and that the Community must take responsibility for addressing these societal challenges. On the right, the government has significantly increased its efforts to combat racism and discrimination in recent years. An example of this is that the government has established a system of subsidies against racism, discrimination and hateful expressions. That's the first of its kind. The action plan against racism and discrimination based on ethnicity and religion is also important. The same is true of the Action Plan against Discrimination and Hatred Against Muslims, which came in the autumn of 2020, and of the Action Plan against Anti-Semitism, which was presented in January this year. VG has recently published chronicles written by young Norwegian asians who have experienced discrimination and racism. Oslo-Agency Lan Marie Berg tells the paper that it is very important that young people stand up with their experiences, and that we should all be grateful that they are able to share feelings and experiences that are very personal. I fully agree with that. Understanding is important. We politicians have an important role here. We have to go ahead, but there are others who should be involved. Business is an example of someone who has an important role to play in thinking about how they work for increased diversity and how they work so that they don't lose good talent through it. We're going to take seriously what minorities in Norway tell us. There are attitudes that we have to fight together. That's why we have to keep working systematically to combat all forms of racism.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1200	Let me first join the case rapporteur in saying that these are the main things that we are dealing with together. We too, from the opposition, are concerned that the action plan and the strategy adopted by the government are being actively followed up. I look at both the Document 8 proposal and our proposals from the minority as a sign that we are impatient in an important area. This year it's been ten years since the terrorist attack on the government quarter and Utøya. We know what extreme, right-oriented, racist propaganda can lead to. That is the final result of this kind of attitude. Words have effect, words create commitment, but they also create negative commitment. This is a fight we must continue, and we remind each other of what kind of consequences it may have if we lose that fight. But the fight against racism is not just about the extreme, extreme positions and actions. It is also about the everyday life of many people. It's about people who have to bring a white friend or friend to rent an apartment in Oslo. It's about people who experience shell words or exclusion in school everyday or at work. It's about the structural racism that can be hidden in our systems, which is not conscious, but which is the result of unconscious actions, attitudes and systems. That is why it is an important document 8 proposal. It is important that this debate be kept alive, and it is important that we have an offensive and strong strategy to combat visible, conscious racism, but also what is more hidden and more unconscious. In particular, it requires that we learn, that we inform ourselves, and that both those who are exposed to it, and those who may contribute to it without necessarily believing it, get the information, the knowledge and the awareness that is needed. With that, I will address the proposals to which the Workers' Party is advocating.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1213	The representative Trond Giske has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1218	It is one of mankind's self-evident truths that all of us human beings are born equal -- that regardless of gender, religion, skin color and background we are human beings alike, and in a society we should have the same opportunities. Although we still have some challenges in Norway, we should also be proud to point out that Norway is, after all, one of the world's least prejudiced societies, where everyone has good opportunities and assumptions, regardless of background. However, this does not mean that all examples of discrimination and racism have been removed in society. ‘Jewish’ is still used as a shell word in some schools. There are Muslims who experience being met with scepticism because of their religion, and there are many young Sikhs who have also experienced it. because of its turban. There are several examples I could have mentioned on single cases and single cases that show that we still have a way to go in combating all prejudices and all discrimination in our society. However, we are pleased with the answers given by the Council of State to the government's efforts on the points mentioned in the proposal. There are also a number of action plans that have been created. Some of them have also joined the Advance Party in government, and they are among others. mentioned in previous articles. So we're satisfied with the efforts that are being made today, and that's why we also go against the proposals and stand with the government parties in the vote. In conclusion, I will also mention the racism debate that has been in the last year, because racism has repeatedly been high on the agenda, among other things. Because of horrific events, especially in the United States, which has created a global debate. This shows that there is still a way to go in the fight against discrimination, perhaps especially in some countries other than Norway. At the same time, I would also like to warn against some of the derailments that unfortunately come into the debate on racism, which I believe are counterproductive and do not contribute to any real solution to the challenges we face, for example. when it comes to removing statues of people like Winston Churchill, or when you get a debate about the so-called intrusion hysteria. It is in my view a derailment in an important debate and does not help to solve anything.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1231	It is in some areas of society a wonder why one has not come even further – one of them is racism and discrimination. That we're all going to have equal opportunities and correct independently of who we are, or where we come from, is completely fundamental. Luckily, this is the case for all of us, most of us. Unfortunately, at the same time we are not in 2021 even racism and discrimination. Racism creates distrust, racism creates hatred, racism pushes people from each other. It is not least to be subjected to racism and discrimination horrendously to the individual and can lead to extraterrestrialism. It's a sunny responsibility we have as a single person every day to stand up to this. At the same time, as a society, we have a great responsibility to facilitate the reduction of all forms of racism and discrimination. Much good work is being done in the fight against racism. At the same time, prevention and the fight against racism require continuous efforts, and that is what we are talking about every day of the year. Without the day-to-day, systematic work, plans are a little bit of a world. The centre party strongly supports the intention of the proposal, but not all of the proposals. The reason for that is that we believe it is already covered by ongoing measures. In 2018, the Central Party launched a proposal for a representative on an action plan against ethnic and religious discrimination, to which an aggregate increase has joined. Racism and discrimination take place in all social arenas – in the workplace, at school and in leisure. There's only one thing that counts, and that's zero tolerance. Prevention, information and competence on the theme are important, research is equally important. The centre party, as the proposer of four proposals today, has this as its theme. The plan is now gradually to open up that society, and many are slipping to it – including the outdoor industry that has had a demanding time. At the same time, we also know that discrimination is taking place here. It is more important than ever to be inclusive in such central and important meeting places that outdoor life represents. The Centre Party has therefore put forward proposals to lower the threshold for the withdrawal of the platypus as a result of discrimination.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1248	Racism is married to our society. It creates exclusion, it keeps people away, and it builds up under contradictions between people. We see a number of examples of how racism is spreading in Norway today. We see that people with minority names have 25 pst. less likely to be called to a job interview than others. In particular, we see in the rental market that many people with a minority background experience getting to the bottom of the queue. We see in the outlife that people with a minority background are denied access. And we see, not least, a situation where the police more often stop people with minority views on the street. What is important to say is that all of these examples of exclusion and discrimination are not necessarily racist-motivated acts, or racist-motivated systems, racist-motivated laws. No, there are structures in our society that result in people experiencing exclusion and discrimination. Research is quite clear in Norway that there is also such structural racism — overall structures that result in inequality and exclusion. It is therefore important to recognise the racism that many experience from the highest level, and not least to gain the knowledge needed to analyse, detect and facilitate the measures that can best prevent and prevent this kind of racism. That is why SV has submitted this proposal for a representative, where we are addressing more research, where we are calling for a separate Commission to order new research, investigate it and bring back actions. This is a debate which, unfortunately, has been very polarized. The debate following the submission of the proposals has only proved the need for the proposals. Here we need to gather on a common knowledge, a common situational description, so that we can finally get on with all the measures we need to take to combat racism. I finally brought up the SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1263	The representative Freddy André Supreme Court has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1268	In this room we have big and small discussions, and one of the discussions on the file card today that I'm sure is going to go beyond this, is the rules for ATV on the barrier and different ones. I thought it was important to give some reflections, because this representative proposal has an affordable goal and an intention that is easy to put behind. One does not need to have much knowledge of Norwegian history to know that both Samaritans and Romans and other groups in our own country have been subjected to ways of treating them as minorities, which do not stand today. We also see now, in our own time, that racist shell words are used on buses and in customs, and that a still has power episodes that are related to skin color, appearance, or where one comes from. That being said, I'm not going to break out, because I believe the debate has produced many of the copies that show why it's important that we still have a good and structural work to get rid of racism in our society, and that it's a work that we never have to work on. There have been many good political initiatives and decisions that show that one is moving in the right direction, but one is far from the right direction. Some examples are that the government has increased its efforts to combat racism and discrimination through, for example: This is a good example in a new way of working, where action can be taken, and which allows a few resources to be put into action to combat discrimination in the labour market, the housing market and in the outdoors, for example. One could also have developed the Action Plan against Racism and Discrimination on the grounds of ethnicity and religion, which contains more than 50 measures to combat these challenges, or another action plan on which a representative of a government colleague party has been involved, namely the action plan against hatred against Muslims. On the day of the Holocaust in January this year, a separate action plan against antisemitism was also presented. All in all, these action plans provide a good basis for ensuring that a person just has the important system and current work and, as I believe, it is important that a strengthener and that one continues to do so. In this case, a large number of proposals are presented. I think that the work that one of the governments has seen going on, which is systematic and continuous, and one of which, at government level, has also started cooperation across departments to coordinate efforts against extremism, racism and hateful expressions, shows that we are probably quite a few in goals. The intentions here are completely behind us, because lack is wealth, and we have to make sure that everyone lives a good and free life in our country. That's why the Christian People's Party believes it's important that you work systematically and vigorously, and that one continues with the good work that a now is doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1288	In Norway, we have a good law that states that discrimination against people is prohibited because of their ethnic or religious background. This is clearly the case with the Equality and Discrimination Act. So I'm also very happy that the Storting here is very much in agreement about the goals and what we want to achieve. Nevertheless, unfortunately, as many have been involved, even though we have the law of equality and discrimination, which is quite clear, there are more people in Norway who experience racism, and therefore racism is a social problem. Research shows that immigrants and Norwegians with immigrant parents experience discrimination in several areas of society in Norway. Persons with a migrant background are more discriminated against than others. The Government shares the Committee's view that the fight against racism is important. In the Granavolden platform, we state that the government will fight racism, religious discrimination and anti-Semitism. We have to work for a more inclusive society in Norway, a society where everyone feels included and represented. The aim is an equal and free society in which no one experiences discrimination and racism. We have therefore significantly increased efforts to combat racism, discrimination and hateful expressions in recent years. There is a lot of good and important work to be done in the fight against racism, which I notice several of the Committee's members also refer to. The government has launched an action plan against racism and discrimination on grounds of ethnicity and religion. There is a broad plan of 50 actions in nine different areas. In the autumn of 2020, the government presented an action plan against discrimination and hatred against Muslims. In addition, the government presented a new action plan against antisemitism on the International Holocaust Day this year. I would also like to stress that the 2021 Government has established a system of subsidies against racism, discrimination and hateful expressions. This is the first of its kind. I would also like to stress that the government is facilitating research into racism and discrimination against different groups, including the United States and Japan. through actions in several Government Action Plans. Among them is a research project on discrimination due to skin colour and external characteristics and another on the attitudes of the population towards religious and ethnic minorities. The monitoring of racism and xenophobia has also been initiated in the light of the Korona crisis and a content study on hateful statements against Muslims. The Government, through the Research Council, has funded multi-annual research on anti-Semitism and Jewish life in Norway and has also allocated funds for research on the link between perceived discrimination and exclusion in different areas of society. I would also like to inform you that there are also several other measures that the government is working with. This work should contribute to the renewal and strengthening of efforts in the fight against racism and discrimination. Racism and discrimination are unacceptable. The government takes the fight against racism very seriously, and I am very pleased that the Storting is in agreement to achieve these goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1303	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1308	It is called for more research both on racism in general, but especially on these racist structures and more invisible forms of racism in Norway. I would like to say right away that it is gratifying that the government has granted some money for research on racism, but the message from the professionals working on this is that it is far too little. Therefore, it is disappointing that the government, as they usually say, is very concerned about pursuing a knowledge-based policy and is constantly asking for research to substantiate positions, today, in this proposal for a representative, says no to exactly a proposal to ask the government to ensure that more research is produced on racism, and in particular structural racism. What's the reason for that?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1313	State Council Let me first say that I agree, I think it's very good that's in the proposals, and part of those things we're doing very well. So now I prepared a little – and read out a little bit from – research and knowledge development on racism that the government is already in the process of. It is clear that it is possible to consider setting up a whole new centre for research on racism, which is an opportunity, for example. like we have a center for extremism research, C-REX, at the University of Oslo. Another option could be to release funds for a larger long-term research effort, for example: Over five years, and perhaps add it to the Centre for the Study of Holocaust and Life Vision Minorities, the HL Centre. These are things that we will of course also consider. There are some budgetary aspects to this, and then it is natural to follow this up in the ordinary budgetary processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1319	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is gratifying to hear that the government will look at the concrete proposals referred to by the Council of State and addressed by the draft representative, and there are several different ways of solving this: a centre, a research programme of its own, or simply asking for more money to be spent on research on the subject. So that's what Storting wants to see in the future. I want to ask another question, because right-wing radical conspiracy theories are something that grows and affects minorities. Yesterday I was so far away from opening the champagne bottle, and it's been a long time since the last, for then it appeared, at least for an hour or two, that the government finally went in to stop supporting the hate blog HRS. It turned out to be wrong. My question is: Does the Council of State think that HRS contributes to the spread of conspiracy theories affecting minorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1329	State Council I think it's a matter of treatment in Stortinget, and I think it's going up – now I'm a little insecure – next week. I think I also saw that there was an attitude on it, and I think it was a unanimous judicial committee. Now the Left is not represented in that committee, and I don't have a complete overview of all the parties that are in that committee. But I can repeat what I said earlier about HRS, and it is that I do not know a single person in the Left who is for HRS to receive support or have received support in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1335	As I said in my post, I believe that Norway is probably one of the countries of the world with the least prejudices, and where people have the most opportunities to achieve their dreams, given that they work hard, regardless of their background, religion and skin color. We have people in virtually all positions in Norway who have shown independently of the background that it is possible to live the Norwegian dream. That said, a few months ago there was a report claiming that there were trends in structural racism in Norwegian sport. We also saw workers' party politicians, among others. The rapporteur, Mr Oslo, felt that Norway had structural racism. I would like to ask the Council of State whether he believes that Norwegian sport or other parts of Norwegian society has structural racism.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1342	It is up to everyone to fight racism and to fight racist rhetoric, at least to understand the rhetoric that you are conducting, and that it can bring with it prejudices, myths and racism. Everyone should be aware of that. I think there are a lot of lockers that should be followed. Perhaps the representative will also discuss a dialogue within his own party on what kind of rhetoric some representatives have sometimes led, and what kind of prejudices and myths it can contribute to creating. I don't want to go into the discussions on how to define structural racism, because it depends on what each person puts into the concept of structural racism, and then you'll get an answer from it. That's saying, for example, that the police as such — structurally, through the way they are set up legally and in the budget — are racist, I think that would be a complete derailment. I don't think so. But anyway, there can be racist examples among the police too, I don't think we should close our eyes to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1349	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1356	I would like to add some final comments to the debate. It is right and important that we have a debate on racism and discrimination in our committee, so I would like to thank the representative of Oberstegård, who has taken this up, and thank you also to the case-rapporteur, who raised a debate in which we are all opposed to all forms of racism and discrimination. We have a good piece of legislation, as the Council of State said, and we have an action plan against racism and discrimination in all its forms. It goes to 2023, and it probably has to be renewed too. It's joined the Storting. What is worrying may well be the everyday talk of racism and discrimination. What happens around the tables? What happens to slingshots in the school yard? When's it going to start? I am also concerned that the municipalities in Norway take this into account, as the government has also done, that they have municipal plans to prevent racism and discrimination in the municipalities, and that this is being put on the agenda of the municipalities. These were theories of conspiracy from extreme movements. They are very often linked to racism and discrimination, and in particular the Jews have noticed it. It's incredibly important that we have attention to precisely these kinds of conspiracy theories, and that we all have a responsibility to respond to and shut this down when it spreads in social media. Research was one of the themes of this Document-8 proposal, and also the creation of a dedicated centre. I think the way to go is to use the structures we already have, and especially the Holocaust Centre, which has a competence environment, and which has started to build a large network both nationally and internationally around research. I think we can get more out of resources towards such an environment, because it's important that the Centre cooperates with universities, where research is also conducted on just racism, how it happens. It was also mentioned how to incorporate skills and knowledge in everything from teaching to school, and I think it is well suited for today. What it says is just how to do it, and then I think research and research programmes are the way to go, and maybe not to use resources in a new center.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1369	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1387	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1394	I would like to thank the proposers for a very topical proposal by the current representative and the Cooperation Committee. An overall committee shares the emphasis on volunteering as an important basis for democracy and concerns about what over a year of pandemic has resulted from reduced activity. We recognize that youth freedom is severely affected by the pandemic. A Joint Committee refers to the 2018 initiative to encourage schools to borrow and rent out premises to voluntary children’s and youth organisations, and I am pleased that we are again asking the government to engage in dialogue with the KS and the National Council of Norwegian Children’s and Youth Organisations, LNU, to ensure access for these groups to schools and other public buildings. At the same time, the Committee will also draw attention to the allocation of 2 million. kr to LNU to develop a national portal for lending municipal premises. Through the pandemic, the government has allowed organisations to keep their means of activity despite the fact that the activity has been minimal. Furthermore, good and predictable compensation schemes are in place. So far in 2021 it's granted around 1.5 billion. kr for the period until 1 September. The report of the Corona Commission points out that it is too early to draw conclusions on the impact of the pandemic on vulnerable children and young people. They write that it's only in several years that we can draw safe conclusions. However, the Committee expects the findings that can be read today to be included in the further work on reopening. The opposition tries, in the form of a note, to create an image of a lack of dialogue between government and sport. There are few, if any, who have had such an open channel to the government as just sport. Their constructive dialogue has also led to great breakthroughs. The sports systems are both adjusted and added more money in line with their en route recordings throughout the pandemic. The class struggle yesterday told us that the children’s and youth organisations have lost 50,000 members under the pandemic. The disappearance of social arenas and the difficulty of influencing them are certainly natural reasons. It is precisely through local activities that organisations create this commitment and become new members. On the right, LNU shares the concern that the effect of the corona may remain for a long time. At the same time, there is reason to state that increased appropriations alone will not solve these challenges. Much of the joy of engaging is just linked to the social, and the Right is concerned with making the arenas available for activity and will continue to contribute to predictable and good support schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1413	The last year has been a test for all of us. It's been more than a year now, and we're still not through the pandemic and the crisis, although there seems to be light at the end of the dark tunnel. We've all been hit by this, but some groups have been hit more than others. The elders are such a group, but the young have not been spared either. Both sport and volunteering do a very important job in society, both to create community, to get us into action and to stimulate us, and not least as part of the democratic arena and as part of civil society. Both sport, volunteering and children’s and youth organisations are an important part of this work. The Progress Party supports the intention of several of the proposals put forward. However, when we choose to go against the three specific proposals, it is because we believe that the device can work against its purpose. We welcome youth organisations into school, but do not want a device where education can be at the expense of education, especially at a time when education has been lost. We will also include: return to the budgetary question in our alternative budgets. We don't disagree with what's being written, but we want to present it as part of a whole in our own budgets. One of the most important things that should now be in focus is the reopening of society, as it is also written in the proposal for a representative. We're all busy with a good reopening, so that activity can get started as quickly as possible, and in a good and safe way. However, we do not think it is appropriate to specify the work done in the proposal, but it is quite clear that we need that kind of activity to start again, so that everyone can participate in normal leisure activities, with all the positive things that it implies. However, I would like to highlight the proposal on which the Committee stands, and on which we have been together in the past, which is very important, namely that public authorities, through municipalities and county councils, do what they can to make their resources, their facilities and their premises available to volunteers, to children's and youth organisations – free of charge, as far as possible. We should have seen more effort there than what has happened, and we hope that the Council of State and the Government will follow up those initiatives and make sure that it works.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1426	Many people have had to take an extra burden under this pandemic, and one of those groups is the youth. A number of activities have been included in whole or in part for periods as well. This activity is mainly driven by voluntary teams and associations. It's important that we get started with a lot of activity as quickly as we can. This is important for all those who lack an offer and for the recruitment. To participate in activities, whether it's sports, corps or gaming, builds identity, it builds layer knowledge, and it builds democracy. Being part of a social community has a intrinsic value. A pandemic with social exclusion and strict rules in itself is very stressful for our young people. Then it's important that other things work. Unfortunately, the compensation schemes have been flawed, unincorporated, and little accurate. This has shifted a disproportionate amount of risk over to layers and associations, so they do not take the opportunity to plan ahead in time. If society were to shut down again, they put them at risk. There's no time to lose. Action needs to be taken; arenas must be established. The ball has a central role in inviting voluntary teams and organisations to the schools as soon as possible to inform about offers and recruitment. If necessary, the scalds should provide room for consultation. The pandemic has done something about the economy of some families, and the challenge of paying quotas and training fees is greater than before the pandemic. It does not have to be economic to get the most possible young people back to volunteering – until it is too important and the amount is too small. There will be a good social investment, and a step on the way will be the proposal of the opposition to increase the basic support for children’s and youth organisations. With that, I take up the proposals from the minority, the proposal No. 1 to 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1439	The representative of Olav Urbø has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1444	Children's and youth's freedom is the building of democracy in practice. It is about ordinary children and young people who go together and identify themselves with some common needs, by organizing themselves according to democratic rules. In this way, children's and youth's freedom is also a school of democracy which many representatives in this Chamber can certainly sign up to having had great, important consequences for them in their future lives. The free movement of children and young people also represents important voices in the political debate around the local and national levels. They represent something that we have to listen to. Therefore, it is difficult to exaggerate the importance of just child and youth freedom. It's also that this part of volunteering creates community, it creates arenas that make sense to many, it creates inclusion. Very often it is that children's and youth's freedom is a very reasonable way of getting involved. While high costs of participating in other types of leisure services are seen, there are much lower thresholds for participation in children’s and young people’s voluntary activities. But during the last year's pandemic, just those arenas for community, for gathering, for exchanging ideas and getting acquainted with these organizations, as we know is so important, have been hit. Now it's replaced by meetings over Zoom and Teams. I think, once again, I can talk on behalf of many representatives in the hall when I say that it gives a completely different inspiration, to say it like that, compared to being able to physically meet with those you share opinions and ideas with. Therefore, it is so incredibly important to prevent this pandemic from leading to a lost generation of the youth exposure, and therefore SV is promoting more proposals today. It's not just the situation we're in now, but especially the reopening we're in, that the 50,000 lost memberships we've been reading about should be corrected. Therefore, it is so important to provide increased basic support, so that the 50,000 lost memberships also mean lost financial muscles for organisations in the coming years. This is why it is so important to give children’s and youth organisations access in schools so that they can recruit, and therefore it is so important to listen to it, among other things. LNU says. I am pleased that the Committee unanimously agrees with at least one proposal on the matter, and we are addressing what that dialogue will lead to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1457	The Government shares the Committee's emphasis on volunteering as an important basis for democracy and has, throughout the pandemic, prioritised action for children and young people. For all types of non-governmental organisations and schemes in all departments, we have agreed on a practice in which organisations have maintained government grants, with the possibility of alternative use or redisposal of funds. State support to children’s and youth organisations through schemes such as Freefonds, the national basic support and the VAT compensation scheme for voluntary organisations helps to provide predictability and flexibility for the planning and implementation of activities. In addition, schemes for which membership numbers are used in the calculation of grants have taken into account organisations’ alerted non-members by using 2019 as the base year for the calculation of grants. As a result, the organisations that have lost members have not lost financial support for them. Some of the aims of voluntary compensation schemes and sport have been to ensure that, even after the corona, we have a strong and independent voluntary sector capable of resuming activity whenever possible. This is also the objective of the incentive scheme for volunteering in 2021. In the revised national budget, the government has proposed to extend these arrangements by October and to increase their scope. In total and as of now, out of October, a budget of about 1.8 billion is proposed. kr to incentive schemes for volunteering and sport in 2021. We have made adjustments so that it more compensates for the small income that the organisations have in connection with activities and events. This has now been approved by ESA, and updated information is posted on the website of the Lotteries and Foundations this week. These are resources that will also benefit from the free movement of children and young people. The government has made it clear that children and young people should be among the priorities of early reopening. In the revised national budget, the government strengthens its efforts to reduce the negative impact of the pandemic on vulnerable groups and proposes three action packages of nearly 830 million. kr. Throughout the pandemic, there has been regular dialogue with both the KS, LNU, the Norwegian Sports Association and the Olympic and Paralympic Committee, NCI, and Freedom Norway, as well as a number of other voluntary organisations active for children and young people. We have a common intention to facilitate the reopening of society for children's and youth organisations. Youth freedom is important for children and young people's daily lives, and their work will be of importance for the reopening and post-pandemic period. I share the intention of dialogue with KS and LNU on access to premises. Access to good and appropriate premises is very important for volunteering and cultural life. Just as football balls need even grass mats, so the crews need good acoustics. The Government has provided support and resources to the Cultural Alliance over the 2020 and 2021 budgets to support their project of identifying premises for volunteering. The Ministry will follow this and hopes that it will provide a good overview of the local capacity and will encourage municipalities and cultural actors to join with non-governmental organisations to carry out the local monitoring.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1470	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1475	We talk a lot about the side effects of the pandemic in terms of health. Of course, we've been busy protecting the elderly; vaccinate, make sure that nursing homes take care of their users, but we're not talking about the invisible effects of the pandemic. One of them is that many children and young people experience a different everyday life and have experienced it for one year. This document 8 is broad, but one area that has been particularly affected is sport. It took a long time to reopen for children and young people, and still you haven't fully reopened for the time being. All the other countries around us have done so. So there is no evidence that this is more contagious than standing in a hundred meters long pole queue in Oslo. And my question to the Council of State is, When will the Council of State make sure that the whole sport starts properly?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1480	Now the representative first started to talk about child and youth sport, and then to talk about adult education as well. I think we can focus on the issues of children and young people. I agree that this pandemic has been extremely demanding, including for children and young people throughout the country. This applies to those attending school, but of course it also applies to those taking part in voluntary cultural activities and sporting activities. Of course it's been heavy for the kids. I do not agree with the representative that the government has not given priority to children and young people. On the contrary, we have just prioritised children and young people in the reopening phase, and among those who started their activities at the earliest were children and young people. It happened already a few months after the pandemic occurred last year. There have been different levels of interventions that have been implemented — some national measures, other local measures, such as: Here in Oslo, where we see that the children’s and youth sport in Oslo has had the greatest burden of action. So I don't think you can blame this political party color difference.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1486	It's related, because a lot of kids play, for example. football with people over 20 years of age. If the 20-year-olds don't get to play, it's enough for the team not to be able to keep up, which means that even the 20-year-olds won't be allowed to play. This is related. The country’s sport movement is reporting non-responses, stoppages and challenges in its operations and activities, for which no assistance is provided. My question is: why does the Norwegian authorities have a completely different assessment of this than our neighbouring country, where they have started this everywhere? And why is it more contagious to be 22 people on a giant football field than to stand hundreds of people in pole queues in Oslo center? It's incomprehensible to people, and we need to get an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1493	Once again, I share the representative's concerns about the rejection of the sport for children and young people. Of course I do. Then there is something about the representative and some other representatives of the Workers' Party trying to make it an evil will of the government towards culture, volunteering and sport, and that's why these have been shut down. I think that this polemic is coming up at the door, because we see that the biggest burden of action is in Oslo, and Oslo is controlling its own actions. I don't think anyone from the Workers' Party would accuse Raymond Johansen and the City Council of having shut down because you have a bad will for cultural life, volunteering and sports. We who have lived and lived in Oslo and have children in both sport and volunteering know how the measures have gone up and down. The reason has been that Oslo has wanted to deal with the infection situation, not that it has wanted to hit children and young people, or that it has wanted to hit the cultural actors. We have done what we have been able to open up where it has been possible to open up, and we have followed the advice and recommendations of the health authorities. We haven't let there go any prestige in the cases, and where there has been an opportunity to open up, we have opened up. But we've also had to deal with an infection situation, and it's been in the driver's seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1502	I have experienced for myself how different there are around the country, really from school to school, in terms of access to children's and young people's freedom to be allowed to be in the school area and to inform about work done. I can certainly say that has been a problem for a long time. That's why I'm very interested to hear what the Council of State is thinking when a total increase is now asking the government to engage in dialogue with the KS. What kind of concrete dialogue can there be, that makes this familiar problem that has gone over many, many years, maybe finally can be corrected? How clear will the Council of State be in its demands to the municipalities about just the democratic approach that children’s and youth organisations should have to take on, for example. schools around the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1509	I have to say that I really agree with the representative on the premises that are available and that the sal capacity that is should be used. Mapping this is an important piece of this. It's a little strange that I knew about this challenge even when I went to college. After all, the gym was available at Foss, and we couldn't figure out why we couldn't just get to use it after school. After a lot of trouble in the principal's office, we were allowed to get a key so it was possible to use it. These are the types of examples that have made us, for example: has just provided the Cultural Alliance with the means to identify and keep an overview of the premises in place so that cultural actors can use them. Also in the voluntary service promoted by the government, we have encouraged the municipalities and county councils as far as possible, to make the premises available during evening and weekend holidays, available for volunteering. It is clear that we will follow up this proposal that is being adopted and have dialogue with the KS, which we already have, but of course we should do so in a strengthened way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1518	I thank the Council of State for the answer and can stress that it is both about getting access to the school as a place to be on evenings and weekends, and also about getting access to the school while there are students there, in order to be able to recruit. It's going to be extremely important now that you see 50,000 lost membership. State councils can also comment on this. I also want to ask you a question, because with the 50,000 lost memberships, you can risk having children's and young people's freedom left with weaker muscles in the time to come, even to drive a new recruitment. It is linked to the economy and the strength of local layers around many local layers and associations. The government increased basic support for child and youth freedom in 2020, in the revised national budget, but was thus cut off in this year’s government budget. That is why I would like to ask the Council of State why this has happened and whether it will be corrected in future budgetary processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1525	The representative asked if I could also comment on what the representative was talking about initially. I have to say that I don't think there will be any examples – hopefully no one, but in the worst case a few – where schools don't want children and young people to use the premises or the school arena to just promote increased participation for children and young people. An example of what we're going to do now against the election is the youth organisations, the party organisations, who are going to be present at the school elections. It is at least my opinion that most people open up to it. At least I don't know that you deliberately shut this down. In the case of the foundation aid, I think in 2021 it's set at about 150 million. kr of national basic aid. Whether it should be increased, we must come back to normal budgetary processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1534	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1541	Life has been different for many in the last year, and it has been necessary because we have had a serious pandemic. We've seen other countries with a significantly higher death rate, a disease that is brutal when it hits, and that hits someone particularly hard. It's been a while, it's been said, but in the effort of the sports team or the housing team that most of us are involved in, we're doing pretty much an equivalent effort. This skill has been fairly misdistributed. While the stock exchange sets new records, there are other groups that take the greatest strain. Some people take a heavy burden because they have lost the job, or their business is shut down, pay disappeared and the economy is insecure, but I also think that children and young people are a group that experiences heavier by the way than we do. Children and young people are, in a completely different way than us adults, depending on being together, engaging in activities, engaging in sports, meeting in teams and associations, being social, getting the training and interaction that it is to grow up and learn the social codes, using their commitment and developing their abilities. A year for a youth is considerably longer than a year for us who are in the 1950s. I think a country that has been closed since March last year has caused many children and young people to experience that they are deprived of great experiences and quality of life. It is therefore important to listen to the proposers here about how we can get this activity going as soon as possible. We're talking about lost years of life because of early death and illness with covid-19, but we can also talk about lost years of quality of life for all those who have experienced a completely different everyday life. The faster we can get started with a normal everyday life, the better it is, and the less time we lose. That's what the opposition here is asking: that the government should use to a much greater extent the means available not only to compensate the purely economic losses along the way, but to get the activity, quality, commitment and motivation going. I was talking about sports in particular, but this applies to the entire width, and there is no doubt that in the health field, too, it is enormously important that the voluntary sport resumes quickly. I think these effects of the shutdown have been underestimated all the way, and now the government has the chance to fix this by ensuring a quick start as soon as the health condition indicates that it is possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1552	A little over two years ago, we met 20,000 climate-stripping schoolchildren here outside the Storting. It was young people who were concerned about their future, who organized themselves and gathered on some absolutely crucial demands for our common future. Many of these young people were or later active in organisations such as Nature and Youth. Their demonstrations, their voices in the social debate, are a crucial part of Norwegian democracy, not only to awaken us who are ruling the country today, but also as the arena for political learning, knowledge of democracy and how it can be used in the best possible way for our common future. In a few years, there will be women and men who spent their youth on a climate strike, filling the seats in this room. Democracy is totally dependent on youth organisations. This is where we find the new Norway, this is where new political ideas grow, the cultural opportunities of the future unfold, tomorrow's environmental policy is formed, and tomorrow's politicians are schooled. In the last year, voluntary organisations, such as the rest of society, have had to carry out their activities under some very stringent and invasive measures. Youth organisations have been particularly affected. They have lost a large number of members. That's why we have to make sure to kick-start the work of youth organisations again after the pandemic. If not, we are in danger of losing a generation of important votes on the way. In organizations that primarily target adults and the elderly, many people know that if we endure, normal activity will resume. But people who have never been in an organization and who get their first meeting with the organisation through digital platforms over a whole year can more easily lose interest. The result is that we can miss out on very many important participants in the development of future Norway. What happens when the new members do not have the opportunity to attend meetings in the organisation, when the country meeting – where the most exciting thing is happening outside the national meeting room – needs to be organised digitally, when the seminars where you get to sleep together with many others in a gym become a digital happening? Is it possible to keep the motivation up? Grown-up politicians should be careful to tell us how to kick-start youth organisations again after the pandemic – the youth organisations themselves know best. But we can do something to facilitate, by increasing basic support, by bringing organisations into school, and by giving the government advice to youth organisations when Norway is to be reopened.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1565	I fully agree with Mr Haltbrecken that we should listen to children and young people. We're going to take them on board, and we're going to meet them, meet them, as we've done throughout the pandemic. I don't have a comparison basis, because I haven't been a state council so to say outside of a pandemic situation, but I'd rather say that we've had more hits and more meetings to follow up children and young people in several departments to a greater extent under the pandemic just because we've been worried about the different sides of the pandemic that hit children and young people very hard. As the representative Haltbrecken was in – I believe everyone in Stortinget has somehow been active even in his time and knows how important the engagement in childhood and youth is, that it is free, that it is available, and that it is possible to do so, because this commitment is carried on both in childhood, as a young adult and later in adult life. It's a part of shaping a whole generation. If I wanted anything, it would be that we didn't have a pandemic, and that it had been full normality in Norway, but that's a situation that we've all had to deal with since the pandemic hit. But when it first hit, the government has chosen to give priority to children and young people. We have chosen to do what we have been able to do in the contagion situation to keep children and young people's activities open. We did that in the first reopening phase last year. After we first shut down, we gave priority to children and young people, and we still have to do that side. And then we've made a bunch of different packages. The packages are one thing, but there were a lot of voluntary organisations, including children and young people, who were concerned that they could keep the support. Very much of the support is activity-based, and when the activity is absent due to the measures to protect the disease, what about the support? We then chose to say immediately that everyone will keep the support, and that they can convert the activities into a different format. Many who lost their members were concerned about whether they could lose or reduce support because their membership had fallen. Then we have said that support can be based on the figures from 2019. In addition, we have now set up with over 10 billion. kr extra for culture, volunteering and sport, and very much of it benefits children and young people. We're not going through the pandemic yet. We do not yet know what long-term effects this will have for children and young people. I'm worried about both as Minister of Culture, Volunteering and Sports and as a teenage father, because we know that this hits children and young people in a different way. Something that made a very strong impression on me was a lady in the news who had a child and said she was worried about this 3-4-year-old, who had no other reality and didn't know what a normal situation is. The long-term effects of the failure of the smallest children, for example: a common 17th May and full normality, we don't know, but I can tell Stortinget that we're going to follow that in a commitment way, and also follow up in a commitment way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1580	It is good that last year the government gave grants to the children's and youth organisations based on membership and activity for 2019 and did not allow the pandemic year to kill these appropriations. But what we're facing here is a long-term problem. Here we talk about youth organisations that have lost tens of thousands of members, which will reproduce in the years to come. Therefore, I find it disappointing that parties such as the Left do not support the proposal put forward by SV together with the Central Party and the Workers' Party today to ensure an increase in the basic support for the children's and youth organisations in the state budget for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1586	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox The cancelation takes a break to go to voting and resume the negotiations after the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1602	Then Stortinget is ready to go to voting and start with the matter no. 3-17 from Tuesday 18 May, Agenda No Eighty-two.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1614	A total of 19 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Mona Fagerås on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, from Mona Fagerås on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 5–15, from Mona Fagerås on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 16 and 17, from Roy Steffensen on behalf of the Progress Party, proposal No 18, from Marit Knutsdatter Strand on behalf of the Center Party proposal No 19, from Mona Fagerås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 19, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure a good supply of education in the higher education and university sector by completing the work on the amendments to the regulations on degrees and vocational training, the protected title and the normal duration of studies at universities and higher education institutions. [[Grade Code]] Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1652	There is a vote on proposal No. Eighteen from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to delay the mergers of directorates and return to Stortinget with proposals for a model in which the number of directorates and underlying companies is actually reduced, with a clear transfer of tasks to the institutions and a clear allocation of responsibilities in the ministry.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1669	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 16 and 17 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to remove the limitation of the scope for vocational training offered by educational establishments with a protected title from the rules of the degree’.» Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to amend the limitation of the level regulation on the possibility for educational institutions to offer vocational education and training with a protected title, such as medicine, to include several places of study, then in the first instance the University of Stavanger.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1691	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5–14, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for some changes in the quality indicators in order to ensure that the broad societal tasks of universities and higher education institutions are carried out.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for changes to the framework funding for State universities and higher education to increase the basic component and reduce the competitive share and project funding.’; Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to review the basic component of the funding system for State universities and colleges with a view to a transparent and fair distribution between institutions.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to identify the components and their weighting, which should be included in a reduced competitive share with a view to ensuring the broad and diverse societal roles of state universities and colleges.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The size calls on the government regularly, and at least once in each majority period, to provide the Stortinget with a thorough analysis of the basic component of the funding system in the university and higher education sectors, based on clear costors and strategic leadership.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked in the investigation of a new funding system for state universities and higher education to propose changes that offset the cost burdens of multi-campus institutions.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a change in the funding system for state universities and colleges so that institutions’ remit to develop continuing training offers is included in the institutions’ basic funding and assignments.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a change in the requirements for the number of doctoral degrees for the accreditation of institutions and master’s programmes in order to better fulfil the social tasks of institutions.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to amend the law so that the closure of study places is submitted to the Stortinget for final treatment.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: «The Government is asked by the Government that decisions on the closure of key professional subjects of major regional importance at individual university and higher education institutions be submitted to the Department of the Grand Duchy for final treatment.» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1757	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to assess the need for increased funding for NOKUT, as the body will be given an extended responsibility for assessing and quality assurance new training offers.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1774	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked, as part of the governance dialogue, to strengthen the regional responsibilities of universities and higher education institutions and to consider integrating regional responsibilities into allocation letters and development agreements.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for concrete escalation plans for new places of study and scholarships to be included in the roll-out of the long-term research and higher education plan.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit the inter-ministerial investigation into medical training for the Stortinget.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1803	There is a vote on proposal No. 15, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate measures to prevent the drop-out and delays in the studies of higher education students.’ All the other parties have indicated their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1833	It shall not be counted against II. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1847	It's going to wrestle over you.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1864	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1880	The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1899	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Torstein Tvedt Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Party of Advancement and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2–5, from Roy Steffensen on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Party of the Centre and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 6 and 7, from Roy Steffensen on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 8, from Roy Steffensen on behalf of the Progress Party There is a vote on proposal No. 8 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to introduce the requirement to pass primary school in order to start high school, in practice, by the fact that students are at least grade 2 in Norwegian and mathematics.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1929	There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to strengthen the gift-enhancing system for high school equipment.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1946	There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the establishment of fixed systems in which companies report the need for apprentices to the training offices. These figures shall be used when the county develops the training offer so that the provision of training is consistent with the needs of the labour market.» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1963	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3–5, from the Party of Advancement, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a continued increase in the apprenticeship grant and for the purpose of ensuring that it remains at the same level as the cost of a professional school place in the long term.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: «The government is asked to make proposals to remove the employer’s fee in apprenticeship places.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government requests the implementation of a multi-state test scheme, where the State, industry and school owners merge into a split layer on mobile units with technical equipment, according to the model of the Norwegian Industry.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e1993	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Party of Advancement, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen the counselling and guidance services in schools by facilitating interdisciplinary advisory services and cooperation between school owners, secondary schools, the advisory service, the secondary school and the working life, and to make it easier for professional groups with experience in other working life to be employed at school as advisers.’ The Labour Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e2010	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the introduction of minimum standards on technical equipment in the professional field. The minimum standard shall be developed in cooperation between schools and business.» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The centre party has notified subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e2069	The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e2088	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Torstein Tvedt Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, from Marit Knutsdatter Strand on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 5, from Roy Steffensen on behalf of the Progress Party proposal No 6, from Mona Fagerås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to introduce requirements that teachers who are required to teach in the choice field of work life must have their own competence and experience in professional processes and didactics.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e2120	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to submit proposals to amend the Training Act so that all secondary school students can choose a job.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e2137	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the provision of vocational training as an electoral profession in all secondary schools.’ The centre party and Red have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e2154	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the continuing training of teachers in the field of employment.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide good guidance on the preparation of local curricula in the labour market.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a return to the Stortinget with proposals on how to increase options and a greater share of practical and aesthetic subjects at the youth level.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e2203	A total of 17 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-7, from Torstein Tvedt Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 8 and 9, from Torstein Tvedt Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 12 and 13, from Marit Knutsdatter Strand on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 10 and 11, from Roy Steffensen on behalf of the Progress Party the proposals No 14-17, from Mona Fagerås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 14, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to extend the total number of hours so that the students get one more hour more in art and crafts per week in steps 1 to 4 in order to allow students to develop practical skills and use different tools.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e2236	There is a vote on proposal No. 15, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to introduce a national regulation to ensure that all primary schools have halls, music rooms, nature halls, school kitchens, gymnasiums and suitable spaces for art and crafts as well as sufficient areas for practical and varied education.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e2253	There is a vote on proposal No. 16, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to secure enough money for sharing hours in the practical and aesthetic subjects, so that the teacher has the prerequisites to follow up each individual student.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e2270	There is a vote on proposal No. 17, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to introduce requirements that teachers who are required to teach in the choice field of work life must have competence in and own experience in professional processes and professional experience.» The Group of the Greens/European Progressive Democrats and the Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e2288	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 12 and 13 from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to come back with proposals to change the professional and hourly distribution that allow more time for practical and aesthetic subjects in primary school.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to come back with proposals to ensure that all schools have satisfactory special rooms and facilities to meet the needs of the curricula for practical and aesthetic subjects and a variation in the teaching of these subjects.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e2312	There is a vote on proposal No. 11 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to facilitate more information and interaction in School-Norway, so that good local initiatives can be more widely disseminated.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e2327	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to facilitate a more practical and varied day-to-day school, for example through several practical options and more active use of local work as part of the teaching process.’ Red has announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e2344	There is a vote on proposal No. 8, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to make the necessary proposals to provide sufficient money to monitor the competence, space, equipment and organisation of the practical and aesthetic subjects in primary school.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e2361	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3-7, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for active learning methods to be introduced as a continuing training offer.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked, in cooperation with the education sector, to assess formalised cooperation between secondary schools and students to become vocational teachers.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative of a pilot project with formalised cooperation between primary and secondary staff in order to strengthen the professional approach of primary school subjects. The project shall consider whether this can contribute to making teaching more practical and diverse. The government is asked to put in place schemes for the reward of participating municipalities and county councils and to carry out a follow-up evaluation of the pilot project.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to introduce requirements for GLU training to include training in practical and aesthetic subjects. Teachers must be given the competence to use practical and aesthetic learning processes.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to promote a plan for making the subject of education choices more committed and meaningful for more students.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e2401	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for better organisation of combined teaching positions between primary, cultural and secondary schools.’ The Progress Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e2412	I think that's wrong. What the president reads out, I think it's the Right Notice that they actually went into the previous case. Right-wing notified in the previous case that they would be included in proposals No. 1, 9 and 17, but it was registered at the Progress Party in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e2417	President! I think that's right, it got wrong in 282.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e2422	It says that the Progress Party must support the proposal, yes?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e2427	That's not true. The representative Turid Kristensen was up on behalf of the Right in the previous case and said they would support the proposal No. One, nine, seventeen.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e2432	Then I think someone from the Right might have to clarify it. Solveig Schytz – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e2439	It is true that there was an error in the voting on Document 8:282. As far as I can understand from the numbering, the government parties shall vote in favour of the proposals. 2 and 5 and I and VI in the setting – if I have counted correctly.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e2444	But that voting is already done, and there is no VI in that case either, so I think we have to try to look into it later on. But if we now relate to proposal No. 9, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party, I really understand from the representative, Mr Steffensen, that the Progress Party should not support that proposal. If, then, there is anyone other than the Green and Red Environmental Party who is to support that proposal, it should now be expressed. So we're trying to solve it this way: we're voting on proposal number. 9, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, and it is the Green and Red Environmental Party which has given its support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e2460	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The government is asked to introduce active learning methods as a compulsory part of the five-year primary school teacher training.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an interest-rate compensation scheme to stimulate municipalities and county municipalities to rehabilitate and invest in halls, gymnasiums, art and craft spaces, school kitchens, music rooms and swimming pools.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e2491	The Socialist Left and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e2510	During the debate Mona Fagerås has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a sample to be set up to investigate a new higher education admission system in cooperation with the sector, trade unions, students and students. The objective shall be new acceptance criteria promoting quality.’;» Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e2543	During the debate, Karin Andersen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked immediately to take the necessary steps to reduce both the waiting time for an interview and the hour to provide the necessary documents as well as the time for processing applications in the foreign administration’. The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e2626	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e2637	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e2749	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e2760	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e2773	The Committee had decided to refer the following decisions to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e2844	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e2854	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e2866	In the course of the debate, a total of five proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Masud Gharakhani on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Masud Gharahkhani, on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 3, from Jon Engen-Helgheim on behalf of the Progress Party proposal No 4, from Heidi Greni on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No 5, from Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. Four from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for an assessment of the benefits and disadvantages of a statutory home that allows municipalities or other public authorities to stop activities and leisure activities aimed at children and young people, which are considered to have a clear anti-integration effect.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e2899	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals to provide municipalities with better means of preventing leisure activities for children and young people that can contribute to radicalisation or are contrary to children’s rights or the Equality and Discrimination Act, including the possibility of monitoring and supervising leisure activities for children and young people who include religious education.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The centre party has notified subsidized aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e2918	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to present legislative proposals that provide a clear legal framework for municipalities to intervene in order to stop activities and leisure activities aimed at children and young people who are considered to have a clear anti-integration effect.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e2933	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to come back with proposals that provide municipalities with better means of preventing leisure activities for children and young people that can contribute to radicalisation or are contrary to children’s rights or the Equality and Discrimination Act, including: – a binding social contract for integration in cooperation with the organisations of the CITs and the CITs, – the ability to monitor and supervise recreational activities for children and young people involving religious instruction.’ The Progress Party and the Central Party have notified subsidized the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e2958	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to come back with proposals for measures to identify the amount of foreign funding to religious organisations, regardless of whether the organisation receives State aid.’ The Central Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal. The Procedural Party has notified subsidized aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e2996	During the debate, Kirsti Leirtrø put forward a proposal on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘As soon as the request from the rapporteur in Trondheim of 21 April 2021 has been examined, the Government asks the Government to submit proposals to the Stortinget for the introduction of environmentally differentiated toll tariffs for the environmental package in Trondheim and E6 Trondheim–Stjørdal.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e3029	During the debate, Mr Johnsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to ensure that cost-effectiveness and quality requirements outweigh different certification schemes in the assessment of investment projects on the road. It shall not be required to certify the State Road Administration or New Weighing Investment Projects in line with CEEQUAL or similar.’;» Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e3060	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Øystein Langholm Hansen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Progress Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asking for more departures and lower ticket prices on the FOT routes in forthcoming bidding rounds.» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e3086	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size asks the government in forthcoming bidding rounds to ensure more departures and lower ticket prices on the FOT routes, where there is no commercial basis for air routes.’ Red has announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e3110	The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e3129	During the debate, Siv Mossleth put forward a proposal on behalf of the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to assess the functioning of exemptions from the health requirements for driving licences in order to ensure that drivers who are fit for driving licences receive it and return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e3153	The Right Party, the Center Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e3184	The size then goes to voting in case No. 1 to 9 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e3196	During the debate Eva Kristin Hansen put forward a proposal on behalf of Vice-President Eva Kristin Hansen, Vice-President Magne Rommetveit and Vice-President Nils T. Bjørke. The proposal reads as follows: «Degradation of documents in relation to the processing of Document 7:2 Special notification from the Central Intelligence, Surveillance and Security Committee on classified information [[2020-2021]] [[EOS Selection]] § 1 In the context of the processing of Document 7:2 Special Notice from the Steering Committee for the Intelligence, Surveillance and Security Service on classified information, the summary of the EOS Committee’s classified final report is degraded, submitted to the Stortinget on 24 March 2021. [[2020-2021]] [[EOS Selection]] § 2 The law will come into force immediately. § 3 The law shall be repealed on 1 July 2021.’ An alternative is to vote between this proposal and the suspension of the presidency. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced support for the vote. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal. The Presidency had set the Storting to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e3243	During the debate, Mr Adelsten Iversen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: 'In Law No 21 June 1985 No. 83 In the case of partnerships and limited liability companies, the second and third paragraphs of Section 2-15 shall be replaced by the following: The Board shall deal with matters in a physical or electronic meeting, unless the Chairman of the Board finds that the matter can be referred in writing or otherwise dealt with. [[2]] The method of treatment must be reassuring. The first sentence may be waived in the company agreement. [[3]] The Chairperson of the Management Board shall ensure that the members of the Management Board are able to participate, as far as possible, in an overall discussion of the matters under consideration. Each member of the Management Board and the Executive Director may require that the matter be referred to them. If a matter is to be dealt with in a meeting, the Chairperson of the Management Board shall decide the form of the meeting. However, more than half of the members of the Management Board may require that the meeting be held as a physical or electronic meeting. This second term is going to be a new fourth term. In Law 13 June 1997 No. 44 Paragraphs 6 to 19 of the first and second subparagraphs shall be replaced by the following: The Board of Directors shall deal with matters in a meeting unless the Chairman of the Board finds that the matter can be referred in writing or otherwise dealt with. [[1]] The method of treatment must be reassuring. [[2]] The Chairperson of the Management Board shall ensure that the members of the Management Board are able to participate, as far as possible, in an overall discussion of the matters under consideration. Each member of the Management Board and the Executive Director may require that the matter be referred to them. If a matter is to be dealt with in a meeting, the Chairperson of the Management Board shall decide the form of the meeting. However, more than half of the members of the Management Board may require that the meeting be held as a physical or electronic meeting. In Law 13 June 1997 No. 45 in the case of public limited-liability companies, the first and second paragraphs of Section 6 to 19 shall be replaced by the following: the Board of Directors shall deal with matters in a meeting unless the Chairman of the Board finds that the matter can be referred in writing or otherwise handled. [[1]] The method of treatment shall be reassuring. [[2]] The Chairperson of the Management Board shall ensure that the members of the Management Board are able to participate, as far as possible, in an overall discussion of the matters under consideration. Each member of the Management Board and the Executive Director may require that the matter be referred to them. If a matter is to be dealt with in a meeting, the Chairperson of the Management Board shall decide the form of the meeting. However, more than half of the members of the Management Board may require that the meeting be held as a physical or electronic meeting. In Law 15 June 2001 No. Paragraph 59 on foundations is replaced by the following: The Management Board shall deal with matters at a physical or electronic meeting, unless the Chairperson of the Management Board finds that the matter may be referred in writing or otherwise handled. The method of treatment must be reassuring. The Chairperson of the Management Board shall ensure that the members of the Management Board are able to participate, as far as possible, in an overall discussion of the matters under consideration. Each member of the Management Board and the Executive Director may require that the matter be referred to them. If a matter is to be dealt with in a meeting, the Chairperson of the Management Board shall decide the form of the meeting. However, more than half of the members of the Management Board may require that the meeting be held as a physical or electronic meeting. In Law No 29 June 2007 81 in the case of cooperative undertakings, the first and second paragraphs of Section 82 shall be replaced by the following: The Board of Directors shall deal with matters in a meeting unless the Chairman of the Board of Directors considers that the matter can be submitted in writing or otherwise settled. [[1]] The method of treatment shall be justified. [[2]] The Chairperson shall arrange for the members of the Governing Board to take the utmost part in a comprehensive discussion of the matters being dealt with. Each member of the board and daily manager may require the matter to be dealt with in a meeting. If the meeting is to be discussed, the meeting will be decided by the Chair. However, more than half of the members of the Governing Board may require that the meeting be held as a physical or electronic meeting.’;» Alternatively, the second and third paragraphs of Section 2-15 of this proposal and the second and third paragraphs of Section I, Section 6-19 of the first and second paragraphs of Section IV, Section 6-19 of the first and second paragraphs of Section V, Section 31 of the second and third paragraphs of Section 82 of the first and second paragraphs of Section VII. The Progress Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal. The Committee had decided to refer the following decisions to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e4522	President! Government parties must also support the proposal. The rapporteur explained that in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e4534	The remainder of I, III, IV, V and VII and other Roman numerals shall be counted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e4545	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e4555	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e4606	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e4616	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e4628	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, by Nicholas Wilkinson on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government, in dialogue with other Nordic and European countries, is asked to clarify how a Norwegian public-private cooperation in the production of medicinal products can contribute to the reduction of dependence of Norway and Europe on medicinal products and active substances produced outside Europe.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a case to be brought forward by the government to ensure public-private cooperation on the establishment of a national cluster for the development and production of vaccines for humans, animals and fish.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e4680	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Hege Haukeland Liadal on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks that the vaccine Cervarix against HPV be replaced in the paediatric vaccination programme by the vaccine Gardasil 9 or other new vaccines that also protect against genital warts.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e4706	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that a method assessment is carried out on vaccines that protect against both HPV-related cancer and genital warts and, in this context, to assess the provision of such a vaccine in the paediatric vaccination programme.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e4723	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e4731	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e4750	Four proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Hilde Kristin Holtesmo on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2-4, from Kari Kjønaas Kjos on behalf of the Progress Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2-4, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to identify the language skills of specialists and primary health professionals and to return to the Storting properly.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to provide Norwegian training to health professionals who need it and to require, after language training, that Norwegian tests be passed in order to have a position of patient contact.’; Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to propose the necessary legislative changes to introduce requirements for passing the Norwegian test at minimum B1 level for patient contact in the healthcare system and passed the Norwegian test at B2 level for jobs requiring higher education.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e4786	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for legal regulation of language requirements, combined with language training, which is necessary to ensure the quality and patient safety of healthcare, and to return to the Storting appropriately.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The Procedural Party has notified subsidized aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e4848	The Right Party, the Center Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e4860	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Right Party, the Center Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e4874	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e4886	The Committee had decided to refer the following decisions to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e4968	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e4978	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e4990	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5012	The size would then go back to the treatment of today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5028	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5035	First of all, I would like to thank the proposers for raising important issues related to them in society that may not have that good, and that actually have to escape from their own house and home. There are several proposals from the SV representatives, there are seven proposals, but the Committee has agreed on one proposal, which reads: ‘The government is asked to go through the law on municipal emergency services and to add that there is no abstinence for food from the individual.’ There, however, the consensus stops. The parties have elaborated well in the matter why there is a disagreement related to the other proposals, which I assume the representative from SV will later lift up again. However, I think the Council of State has explained well in its reply to what the government is doing, and how the evaluation of some of the amendments that the proposal also points to is to be carried out. However, I have a strong need to say something from the Progress Party. Since not so much of this was mentioned in the revised national budget, I need to read a note from the majority of the committee, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, which indicates that: ‘... municipalities are responsible for providing a crisis centre offer and recognise that non-profit actors are important partners for many municipalities’.» This majority considers that: ‘The question of public or non-profit-making is a question that should be addressed locally and that government policy should not favour one of the forms of operation. In this context, the majority emphasises the importance of ensuring local authorities’ tools to choose the preferred type of operation and of having a system of VAT compensation that treats equally the public and private operation of crisis centres.’;» So just with a little emphasis on that comment, I want to be happy for the rest of the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5065	Thank you both to the rapporteurs and to the rapporteur for the thorough and thorough consideration of the matter. I volunteered when the first crisis centre opened in Kristiansand. I think it was about 1980. Then we had a telephone number on which we could be contacted, we had a sofa that we could sleep on as a telephone guard, and the phone was a police officer from at noon. 20 to 20 o'clock. 7 o'clock in the morning. It has improved, but although the measures have improved and include many more, the despair, desperation, fear, hopelessness and need for help of those at risk of violence have not diminished. And the pandemic has made action for women more difficult to take advantage of, while violence has increased. Those who are exposed to it have become more alone. Those who are victims of violence and abuse shall receive the assistance they need. It is the obligation of the Community. They'll get it when they need it, and not least they'll get the protection they need in order to live a safe life. The report on the provision of crisis centres by the municipalities – a knowledge summary points to several challenges. There is a need to strengthen the assistance provided to those at risk of violence, not least to contribute to more coherent assistance chains. Prevention, protection, detection and investigation must be linked to the possibility of having a life afterwards. In this way, we talk about low-threshold measures, wide-ranging assistance services, necessary skills and good welfare arrangements, such as: access at a place of residence — a safe place. It is now ten years since the municipalities were given responsibility for the crisis centre offer through the municipal framework grant. The Labour Party called for a thorough review of the crisis centre activity in the Stortinget last session. It is good that the government has now initiated such a review. We believe it is important to have this review as a basis for changing the offers, and we will therefore await concrete proposals until we have received the evaluation on the table in Stortinget. We also think, as the rapporteur-in-Office, that the report of the Council of State was good. That's why we don't vote for the proposals now, except for those with excesses. Finally, I have to say that I am concerned about the signals coming from the majority parties. I want to remind them that there is a majority in this case to phase out the commercial actors from child protection, and there is absolutely no need to phase them into the crisis centre movement. It is a political direction from which the Workers' Party takes a strong distance, and I hope that our direction will be endorsed in the elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5084	Crisis centres shall be a low-threshold offer to all victims of violence who need it — and not least those who need it the most, who need it the safe port. I am pleased that the government has announced that it will investigate legislative changes with measures to improve the quality of crisis centres. Lack of control and control over your own economy is often part of the violence. It is serious that persons in need of the offer will not avail themselves of the offer if they fear self-payment in any form and in this case it concerns food. Thanks to the representatives of the SV who promoted this proposal. I am very pleased that the department will look into the use of prostheses in connection with the law to be reviewed. It is the unanimous wish of the Committee to review the law and to impose a non-proprietary share on food provided by individuals. The right supports the fact that transferring the crisis centres to the municipalities was a good move. The offer should be close to the users and the funding should be located in municipalities. The evaluation by the Welfare Research Institute NOVA of the implementation by municipalities of crisis centres shows that the offer is getting better — and not least the offer for men. I'm glad the department will look into it. Norway is a long-distance country, and it is a challenge in some municipalities that it is a long journey. The report on the Local Crisis Centres — a knowledge overview, from the Directorate for Children, Youth and Family, shows that the quality of the smaller centres is often lower than that of the larger centres, and this is particularly related to honorary violence and violence in close relationships for people with a minority background. A good professional follow-up during a stay is essential if you are to be able to recover or establish yourself. Often, there are intercommunal solutions that make you get good crisis centres, and I want to draw up an offer in the municipality of Ringerijke. It is an intermunicipal centre of competence and crisis, which stands out as a very good example. They cooperate with the Ring Kingdom Municipality on strengthening the competence of the drug field across different agencies for the benefit of those staying there. They work interdisciplinaryly and also have their own department for men who are subjected to mental and physical violence. It shows that it is useful to work together, and it is useful to work across the board.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5101	A good crisis-centre offer is decisive for all those who are subject to election or harassment about power in close relationships. This is unfortunately a continuing social problem. The cost to the individual, children and society is great. Municipalities were given responsibility for crisis centres in 2011. The municipalities are the public's first line – close to the users, closer to the inhabitants. Crisis centres work well, but they also have challenges, as the report from the Local Government Crisis Centre offers – a knowledge overview points out. It is high time for the evaluation to be carried out and for promises and actions to be made to ensure a good future. The already mentioned report points to more ratios. Overall, there is a holistic service provision that includes municipal health care, childcare, trauma treatment and alternative housing. The municipalities in this country are, as we all know, different, and child protection is organised differently. It should not, or should, prevent everyone from having an equivalent offer. The operation of crisis centres is funded through framework grants to municipalities. It's the Center Party for. No one is better placed to provide good services in an efficient way than municipalities, but it is a decisive premise that the funding of municipalities is consistent with the services they are to provide and the tasks they are to perform. Under the government of Solberg, the local economy has again been under pressure, as the tasks have increased. Aggravation of the local economy is therefore decisive for the important job crisis centre should do in the future as well. There are women who have been subjected to a great deal of violence, and the offer must of course be adapted to them. At the same time, there are also men, boys and people from ethnic minorities who need help from crisis centres. If the offer is well enough adapted, an evaluation should be made. Asking for help can be difficult for many. Therefore, it is so important that it becomes as simple as advice and that obstacles are removed. The offer shall be free of charge and free of charge. Finally, I take up the proposal No. 1 to 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5118	The representative, Olav Urbø, then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5123	Violence against women and violence in close relationships is a major and structural social problem. From 1992 to 2017, more than 100,000 people have been in one of the country’s crisis centres. About 1 out of 20 children and young people is growing up under the conditions of violence, and it is estimated by the violence that strikes in close relationships, society costs between 4.5 billion. kr and 6 brd. kr annually. We see that women are more exposed than men to gross violence, extensive control, threats, sexual violence and, above all, partner killing. In addition to the profoundly touching and strong personal consequences of these figures, violence against women is also about gender inequality, power inequality between women and men and about serious restrictions on women's freedom. Therefore, crisis centres are a critically important offer. Crisis centres must and should be a low-threshold offer under law, but violent people still face a closed door. Victims of violence experience having to travel for hours to reach their nearest crisis centre offer, and victims of violence feel left with a significant economic bill after staying in a crisis centre. In many places the crisis centre is not a low threshold offer. Protecting against violence and abuse is a critical offer, and then Stortinget has to think about: Can we then accept such great differences in the offer? That is the recognition SV has received after the change in funding and transfer to the municipalities. Based on that reflection, we have promoted these proposals. We are promoting proposals – as the crisis centres themselves say was the best time for them – that the state should finance 80 p.m. of the crisis centre offer. It is important when there are large differences in economic frameworks — from 1.4 million. kr for at least 23 mill. kr for the largest. Therefore, we suggest that you do not have to travel for many hours to get to your nearest offer. That's why we're proposing daily staffing requirements, so that you don't face a closed door when the crisis has first occurred. And, not least, that's why we're suggesting that you take away the prowess. With that, I'll take up SV's proposal. I would not least like to say that I am very pleased that the Committee has at least gathered on one element of this proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5134	The representative Freddy André Supreme Court has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5139	First, I would like to say that I share the representatives' commitment to the crisis centre offer. Crisis centres are, for many, a safe haven in a very difficult situation. For some, we also know that crisis centres are involved in saving lives. I know that there are many municipalities that work very well, and that take good care of women, men and children who need help in a critical life situation. I also know that the quality can be uneven, and that we have to keep working to get an even better offer. Representatives are addressing several key challenges in the supply. There are complex issues, and we must constantly balance the objective of an equivalent offer across the country with the fact that there is a great diversity among the different municipalities. Unfortunately, there are no simple solutions. I would like to point out in general that the responsibility for the crisis centre offer was added to the municipalities about ten years ago. We must remember that the autonomy of municipalities is an important principle. Municipalities shall be able to organise their statutory tasks as they see fit, based on local circumstances. I believe that we should avoid detailed governance of the municipal crisis centre offer, even if it may be nearby. It is not always the case that legislative changes solve all problems. Strong leadership in the organisation of the offer by municipalities is therefore to be thoroughly investigated in order to ensure effective action. I am very grateful that the Stortinget is debating the crisis centre offer. All the evaluations we have underlined that the offer has improved, and that it has become more professional. I'm glad. The representatives, however, point to a number of weaknesses that we are familiar with and that we have to work to improve. We are in the process of reviewing the Crisis Centres Act, where we need to assess measures to strengthen the crisis centre offer. In this work, it would be natural to discuss a number of the issues on the table today. Work against violence and abuse has a high level of government attention. We are about to present a new action plan on violence in close relations with a separate section on violence in Sami areas. In a short time, we will also be completing a new action plan against negative social control and honour-related violence. For those who are exposed to these particular forms of violence in close relationships, the crisis centre is also an important safeguard.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5155	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5160	This government has repeatedly cut off the budgets of non-governmental organisations and has given reasons for not having political influence. It is a policy that is distant from the Labour Party thinking about the role of non-governmental organisations and the role of civil society. Of course, non-governmental organisations shall engage in political work against the government or local government at all times. They work out there and are the ear of the common people experiencing political decisions. The Crisis Centre Secretariat is such an organisation, and the Workers’ Party has proposed to strengthen the Crisis Centre Secretariat in its budgets precisely because it is an important coordinating player that can bring important knowledge from crisis centres all over Norway back to accumulation and government. The government will not strengthen the budgets of the Crisis Centre Secretariat. Why not?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5167	I really don't recognize in the description that this government has cut off a number of grants to non-governmental organisations. On the contrary, we have been involved in increasing subsidies to a lot of people, and we are spending a lot of effort and money on lifting and helping to support in the non-profit and voluntary sectors, precisely because we believe it is extremely important. So I share the situation description of the positive they contribute, but not the reality description of the cut. In the case of precisely the grant to the Crisis Centre Secretariat: we are concerned about it, and I fully agree that they are doing an important job. So there's only been an assessment based on all sorts of good wishes that lie in a government budget, and then we haven't prioritised this in this round.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5174	Part of the issue SV raised with this representative proposal is the experience we have heard from concrete people who have experienced being left with a quite significant bill after a stay at the crisis centre, and how it creates a barrier in an already very difficult situation. It's extremely demanding to take the choice to break out, run away from the family and visit a crisis centre. That is why we are very pleased that the committee has agreed to ask the government to review the law with a view to making changes so that you cannot charge for at least the food part of it. I wonder if the Council of State can say anything about how he will respond to that request from a unanimous committee, and whether legislative changes will be relevant.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5181	Thank you for an important question. I fully agree with the description. It may not be that there is a cost of emergency services that makes a choice not to go there. That is why the law also states that the offer should be free of charge. It was probably on the basis of a written question from one of the co-representatives of the representative of the Supreme Court that we began to investigate what practice is. It turns out there's a little different practice. Most people handle this in a very good way, and in very many of the places they buy one in their own food. And then there's some places where you get the food, and then that's also a prop to it. I fully share my intention and commitment. That's why we're looking at how this can be followed up in the investigation we're doing, and then we might also look at changes in the law, but it's a little too early to say if it's going to be solved that way. My impression is that this is mainly solved in a good way on the ground, but there must not be a barrier for a visitor to such an important offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5188	I agree with the Council's description that around the vast majority of crisis centres, both this and other of the challenges we point to in the proposal for a representative are well solved. Nevertheless, we see that in many places in the country, the crisis centre offer is not a low-threshold offer, as it should be according to the law. Being left with a bill afterwards is part of it, but there are a number of other problems as well. That's why I want to ask the Council of State if he and the government think it's okay that it's up to five hours' journey to be able to visit a crisis centre. Is that really a low-threshold offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5193	I also share the concern that it may be far to travel and the importance of their geographical spread. We have a very long-distance country, and fortunately it lives around the country, so it's clear that if you have too many crisis centers, it will mean that there will be very small crisis centers. It can – I stress ‘can’ – make the offer not as good as it might have been, and I heard that the representative was very concerned with an equivalent offer. As I also said in my post, there are some dilemmas here with the size and the offer you can get, versus proximity, but I think this is an important issue you have to look at. Small centres can probably be one of the alternatives, but also to help even more. The feedback I have received is that they are very busy helping, so when someone is looking for help, they facilitate different solutions, but I see that there is a problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5200	I thank you for your answer. Crisis centres in Norway have a special history. There has been a crisis centre movement that has largely set up crisis centres around the country on an ideal basis, and this has been taken over as part of public policy later on. But in recent years – I think the Council of State also agrees – this has been a critical offer from the authorities to prevent, but also to help those affected by violence in close relations. We then have a tradition for Norway that, on such important offers, we accept less significant differences in quality. That is why I would also like to ask the Council of State whether he thinks it is okay for some people who are affected by violence and abuse to meet a closed door when they first arrive at crisis centres, because there is no need for luck crews.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5209	I agree with the importance of having a good offer for this group, but I think the representative through his posts highlights the dilemmas. On the one hand, we want very equivalent offers, and then we know that it won't be possible if you also want to have that proximity. It's also going to be an extreme cost if you're going to ask tiny crisis centres to have 24-hour deals, I think the scale is going to be so big. I think the important thing is that you get help when you need it. As I have understood the offer, it is such that if a person meets a closed door, it will also be possible to contact someone, and most people have arrangements that allow you to meet relatively quickly. But as I say, several of these issues are very relevant, and there are demanding dilemmas, so I would like to stress that this will be followed up in the work we are doing. I also say that there are no simple answers here to find the optimal solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5216	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5235	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who wish to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5242	I was asked to make a statement instead of the case's rapporteur, Else-May Norderhus. Svalbard is a large connected wilderness area. The pristine natural areas have a high self-esteem and it is important for the preservation of the vulnerable biodiversity that exists there. The preservation of the unique wilderness nature is one of the main objectives of Norwegian svalbard policy, and in this context environmental considerations are always the most important. Svalbard and other environmental legislation are the main means of ensuring that activity in the area takes place in a way that respects nature’s specificity. This case concerns two amendments to the Svalbard Environmental Protection Act. The Svalbard Environmental Act regulates territorial protection, natural intervention and traffic, the protection of cultural heritage, land-use planning, local pollution and waste, and hunting and fishing for Svalbard. What is now proposed by the amendments to Section 82a is a general ban on the use of heavy oil in the entire territorial waters of Svalbard. This amendment is designed to prohibit the use or carriage of petroleum-based fuels with a higher density, viscosity or rigidity than is permitted for marine gas oil. This will now apply throughout Svalbard. The proposal also implies that more environmentally friendly fuels will now be allowed. The second amendment is the change in the second paragraph of Section 51 to provide for a charge for the handling of private plan proposals, as is currently done on land. Both proposals are widely supported in the Ministry's hearings. I point out that there is an overall committee behind this recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5257	Today I want to develop the somewhat unparliamentary word «hurra». My hurrah is in the first row of coins on the heavy oil ban that are now being introduced into the entire territorial waters around Svalbard. I could easily have finished my post with this, for such a Hurrah should be self-explanatory, but I would like to elaborate a little. Waters around Svalbard and the polar circle are particularly vulnerable, and the precautionary principle must be applied in such areas. We have now come so far in our knowledge and, not least, technology development that everything is at the ready for such a ban to be introduced. The large natural areas on and around Svalbard have great value, and an accident with heavy oil could have had disastrous outcomes and affect nature for many generations to come. Oil spills from ships are one of the biggest threats to the Arctic ecosystem. And even if there is a ban on the use of heavy oil in the protective areas of Svalbard, this is not good enough, all the time an oil beer outside the protective areas unfortunately will affect the protected areas as well. It is very happy to see that there has been good support for the ban through the audio recordings that have come. We note, however, that the Shipowners' Association expresses a certain skepticism and wants such a ban to be implemented through the IMO. At the same time, such a ban will open doors for new fuel options, which we perceive is also driven by the Shipowners' Association to find good devices for. The Ministry proposes good transitional arrangements to allow business transport time to change, but there is no doubt as to the direction and the objective is firm. Then I want to have a little more moderate hurray to the second part of the regulation, which is going to open in order to provide a fee for private plan proposals with a home in the planning and building laws. But all the time local government strongly wants to be able to give such a fee, and since we are concerned about self-determination, I therefore allow myself to acknowledge that it is being prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5272	The size has two proposals for changes to the Swallow Environment Act. The first is a proposal to legislate a general ban on the use and carriage of heavy oil throughout the territorial waters of Svalbard. We all have such a ban in the large protected areas there. The proposal is now important to strengthen the protection of the vulnerable environment of Svalbard from oil spill damage, and I am pleased that a majority in the Committee support the proposal. Svalbard is essentially a large connected wilderness area. The preservation of Svalbard’s unique wilderness nature is one of the main objectives of Norwegian svalbard policy, and policy suggests that environmental concerns should be given priority in conflict with other interests. Emissions of oil from ships are considered one of the major threats to the Arctic ecosystem of local activity, and shipping around Svalbard has increased rapidly. Svalbard is big, and a cleanup will be difficult, if at all possible. The risk of damage to the environment in the event of a major oil spill is so great that legislation is necessary to prevent the use of the most environmentally harmful types of fuel. They heard that the authorities were in favour of the proposal for a heavy oil ban. Someone also said that the rules should have been stricter than proposed. An input of longer transitional arrangements has been considered. Recordings to comply with the IMO proposal to amend the MARPOL Convention by the United Nations Maritime Organisation are not relevant, as it would provide a worse protection than is currently in the protection area. We propose a heavy oil ban that opens up the use of more environmentally friendly fuels in protected areas, such as: LNG or hydrogen. At the same time, we will not allow the use of hybrid oil, which has been approved by the IMO and for which the minority in the Committee is taking the floor. Hybrid oil may be as dangerous to the environment as heavy oil if released in cold water. The rules of the MARPOL Convention set minimum requirements and do not preclude a stricter fuel requirement for Svalbard. We therefore believe that the legislative proposal provides a good balance with regard to what is needed to protect the environment from harmful emissions, while at the same time taking care of others. We propose a transitional arrangement for vessels carrying coal or bulk to or from Longyearbyen and Barentsburg, until 2024, to give these communities a little more time to adapt. For the vulnerable natural environment of Svalbard, the transitional regime must not be too long. That was the first proposal. Very brief on the second: it is about providing a home in the svalbard environment law to provide for a charge for the processing of private plans, in order to meet local government's needs for rules similar to those of the municipality in the mainland, as the extent of such matters increases. We are pleased with the support of the committee, and hopefully from Stortinget, also to that change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5287	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5304	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5311	Several batches are occupied with motor travel in the fields and watercourses – often with different stands and entrances to the theme. This will take effect in at least one proposal for a representative in each session. This time we have no less than two suggestions for handling, and I would like to thank the Committee for a thorough and good review of the subject, with many suggestions that we have been invited to decide on. Motor travel in the fields and on watercourses engages especially in two camps: it is those who want to facilitate more motor travel, and it is those who want to be when a person travels in nature, yes, then a screen for motor noise and craft that can come on at great speed, while at the same time it can upset animals, bird life and vegetation. It is possible to understand arguments from both armies, and for this to be regulated we have motorbikesellova. At the same time, we know that we have a long country, with different topography, different climates, different types of nature, different busses and different needs. And since motor travel is a recurring theme in this room, it might be useful to take a closer look at whether there is a basis for revision of some of the areas in the law. At the same time, there is a recognition that a local person has profound knowledge and knowledge of the current situation in his municipality, and that it is also about giving local democracy confidence before the given framework. The size should not be dealt with, nor should we propose to increase red tape and to create unclear guidelines for the municipalities, which it was likely would have a number of cases today, following suggestions from the Labour Party and the Centre Party. I am therefore pleased that there is a plural proposal on the table today that enables us to carry out a thorough process where everyone is being heard. We are now getting a thorough review of the laws, which ensures that there will be democratic processes, all of which will be heard, and which will highlight the issues from all sides, including those that have not yet been brought to light by the procedure we have now had in the committee. I look forward to a constructive and good debate that I hope will focus more on matters, rather than on who has a say.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5324	Many input has been made through the consideration by the Energy and Environment Committee of the proposals for representatives on the law on motorised movements in land and watercourses. A number of proposals have also been made in the process. Not surprisingly, there are conflicting interests between outdoor interests and those seeking to liberalise the law and increase the opportunities for motorised outland traffic. Possibility to take decisions on motor travel has been assigned to the municipalities today. The working party believes it is an important principle that it is the municipalities that are responsible for establishing their own loops for motor travel in the field through the Law on Planning and Building and the Law on Motor Travel in the Land. Municipalities shall have jurisdiction over their areas and shall determine for themselves the route of snowmobiles and the authority to grant exemptions. Snowmobile loops for recreational purposes, exemptions for commercial use and industrial activity are treated by the municipality. In many municipalities there is a good opportunity for the creation of snowmobile loops. The working party believes it is important that we have an overall code for motorised travel in the field. However, it is worth noting that local politicians have identified an increasing need to look at the law and review it. The Labour Party believes that it is natural that legislation evolves in the course of social development, in which accessibility, technology and consideration of nature, environment and animal life and consideration of other industrial interests are taken into account. The law must also be seen in connection with other laws. There will be an overall balance between different interests, where it is essential that the impact of the Storting decision be made visible. Therefore, the Labour Party believes that changes must come after open democratic processes, with consultations where everyone has the opportunity to make good administrative practices. Therefore, the working party does not go into all the individual proposals submitted but will vote in favour of a review and full revision of the law on motor travel in the fields and watercourses. The Workers' Party is therefore promoting joint proposals with the Centre Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to propose a revision of the law on motor travel in the fields and watercourses with a view to reducing red tape related to the practice of the law and that the law be more closely coordinated with the Law on Planning and Building in order to increase the authority of the municipalities.’ We see that there are two solutions to the matter. The Labour Party, if it does not become a majority in favour of our proposal, will vote in a subsidiary way for the proposal No by the Government Parties and the Progress Party. 41. The Workers' Party will not support loose proposals from the Centre Party, No. 40, 40, 40, 40, 40, 40, 40, 40, 40, 40, 40, 40, 40, 40, 40, 40, 40, 40, 40, 40. With this I address what the proposal Workers' Party is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5344	The representative of Runar Seestad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5349	The Motor Traffic Act engages not only political parties but also the population of those areas that have tradition of using snowmobiles and driving motorised outland traffic, both for recreation, for industry and for other purposes. We had a revision in 2015, which amended the Motor Traffic Act, which allowed municipalities to extend access to the creation of new loops for snowmobile driving. It is a system that has worked very well and has given several loops in several municipalities based on the need for use, with the law as a framework for it. We get a lot of feedback from citizens that today's legislation is without local anchoring, it's stiff-legged and in practice works against its purpose. National rules cannot regulate the way out-landing is regulated locally in an efficient way, adapted to the individual municipality. When you look up to the north, towards Finnmark, we have a motor traffic ban that comes into force on 5 May every year. There were some people who arranged a protest tour on May 15 on the loops that were still open, which the governor had given his blessing to keep open. There were a lot of people who stood up to show their dissatisfaction with the motor racing law. We have identified 32 points in this case that it is possible to improve. We have also proposed a solution to improve them. I would like to see a majority for the most possible of them in Stortinget today, but unfortunately we don't. Looking at the experience gained from the change in 2015 in the legislation that allowed municipalities to establish loops for recreational driving, access to loops can help to, among other things. illegal driving is reduced. It has also contributed to the growth of tourism and other local businesses. But I am very pleased that we have managed to reach agreement with the Right, Left and Christian People's Party on a common proposal for a comprehensive revision. That's a good plan b for the Progress Party. We want to increase local self-government and reduce red tape related to the practice of the Motor Traffic Act. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to propose the revision of the law on motorcycling in land and watercourses with a view to increasing local self-government and reducing red tape related to the practice of the law, while respecting nature and outdoor life.’ I would like to address the proposals in which the Progress Party is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5371	The representative Bengt Rune Strifeldt has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5376	It has almost become an annual tradition that we – every year – deal with proposals from the Centre Party dealing with a more local administration of the Motor Traffic Act. In recent years, it's just the Center Party that has lifted the case in Stortinget. New of the year is that the Progress Party has arrived on the track. And it's a little shocking that they saw quickly after they got out of government, raising the matter in Stortinget. But then we'll all notice that when they put in government and had the power and the ability to make changes, they didn't lift a finger for motor travel in the outfield. They also voted in favour of a number of proposals made by the Central Party on this platform over the last few years. Last year we had an exception, because then the Senter party finally got a majority to remove the distance requirement that it must be 2.5 km from the broken highway to the cabin in order to drive scooters. But we now see that the experience with the whole law on motor travel is that it has become far too extensive, expensive and very bureaucratic to enforce for all municipalities. This matter very much involves those it touches. For the country as a whole and for the national media, this is probably not a big deal. If, on the other hand, there were restrictions on boating in the archipelago, it would probably create a great uprising. But for North Norway, Trøndelag and other parts of District Norway, this law affects a large number of people. The centre party therefore believes that there is now a need to revise today's motorcycling law, with greater municipal self-determination regarding some of the rules of the law. We believe that coordinating the Planning and Building Act with the law on motorcycling in land and watercourses will increase the autonomy of municipalities and red tape the entire legislation. At the same time, I would like to stress that important conservation considerations should be taken into account, but that it is the municipalities that are able to assess for themselves, and not the bureaucrats in Oslo. Asphalted roads, water and sewerage systems, electricity and fibre to cab areas are fields that can be decided by municipalities through the Planning and Building Act without the State administrator being able to change this. However, in setting up e.g.: So a scooter loop doesn't give the municipalities this trust from this government. Therefore, the Centre Party believes that the Planning and Building Act is a perfect tool for setting up scooter loops that guarantee municipal autonomy, but this must be done in coordination with the Motor Traffic Act. That is what the Central Party is talking about in this matter. In addition, we have promoted a number of simple, concrete proposals that would help to red tape the legislation. Unfortunately, it doesn't seem like we're getting a majority for today. At the same time, I would like to say that there is a small movement in this matter. With that, I will address the proposal of the Centre Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5391	The representative Sandra Borch has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5396	I don't think I have numbers on how many times we've been discussing snowmobiles in this room for the last four years. But there are many. The only advantage I can see with today's debate is that the Progress Party reveals itself as the anti-natural and anti-life party they really are. After trying to profile himself as a friend of nature in the fight against wind power on land, just after having had the state councils that have given most concessions to wind power on land, we now see the actual face of the Progress Party. Thirty-two proposals – 32 proposals – find it necessary to promote the Progress Party to ensure that snowmobiles are operated more in Norwegian nature. I'm paralysed. I hardly think that the party has promoted the same number of proposals in any other matter in the four years that have passed. So, getting herring free with snowmobiles in nature is the most important thing for the Progress Party. I told the jommen a friend of nature. The regrettable thing in this case is that they have brought with them the government parties on another revision of the law on motor travel in the field – to the detriment of nature and to the detriment of the outdoors. It is deeply regrettable that the government parties have joined in, and I fear that this is not the last time we discuss free slipping of snowmobiles in nature. After the election, Stortinget will probably have plenty of opportunity to do this since this is the most important matter for the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5407	This is the annual brum-brum debate in the Committee on Energy and the Environment. This year it actually happens after May 17th and not before Easter. I guess that's the big difference. For the left, it is important to point out that we are leading where and on the nature side here, and that is all reason to be restrictive. The challenge is that there are many more snowmobiles out there, and as we talk about traffic often outside organized paths, it affects nature. It's possible to regulate this locally, and that's what we're open to investigating and looking at, but it's important that it happens after a wide consultation, and that all parties have the opportunity to get to the floor, so that it's not just those who want to drive more, free and wild, we hear. Regulation and organisation are very important. I hear that the Central Party is firmly convinced that taking responsibility for the municipalities means liberalisation. The left is a liberal party, but fortunately, it's not that municipalities are always more liberal locally than what you're central. There will be municipalities here that could even go further in being restrictive than the Storting is. Then it's about the Law on Planning and Building. I think it is an unimaginablely bad proposal to link the motor vehicle traffic legislation to the Law on Planning and Building. When one compares to infrastructure like fiber and water and sewerage, then goes to the house door, or to the cabin door, while here we are talking about traffic that is far beyond that infrastructure and that structure. What's positive is that there's a lot of new technology coming up now. The GPS and radio marking allow you to get a better overview, and one can also interfere with apps that allow the driving to be registered immediately. This makes me optimistic, given that it is possible to get sensible management locally – because you get a better overview of both the amount and where it is run, and a stretching to facilitate more organised runs. I see absolutely that there's a development going on here, and I don't see the possibilities here as SV does, but it's important that we take time and take this step by step and use the new technology that can help us.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5423	The debates we have had going on in the Storting through this session and previous sessions on the balance between local government and national concerns when it applies, for example. nature protection, shows that Ivar Aasen was right when he said that ‘to be prepared for all, no one can do’. It has been so, and I think I'm afraid that he is also right that it will be so. But the more important it is that the Storting is able to make decisions that make it possible for us to have a process that has a legitimacy around it, where it is that different voices are heard, and where different interests are given the opportunity to express their views, and one is given a holistic assessment. For this reason, I am pleased that the plurality of this case has gathered around a good proposal, where proposals are made for the revision of the law, and where one has a framework that both links the proposal for local self-government and points out that there are fundamental values around nature and outdoor life that need to be taken care of. It is a good proposal for a decision that will provide the basis for the possibility of having a good process in this case. I think it's a sensible decision, and otherwise I'll just refer to the excellent article that the case spokesperson had.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5430	There are two motions for resolutions on which the debate is based – one from the Centre Party and one from the Progress Party – and what remains in many of the proposals that are being put forward there and in the Chamber is that there is a desire for municipal autonomy. That's good, but then I find reason to remind you here at the beginning of my post that it's already to a large extent the municipalities that control the motor traffic in their municipality. Just because they know their territories best, it is those who deal with applications and grant permission where there is a basis for doing so. It's also the municipalities that fixed snowmobile loops. It's obvious that someone wanted you to go very, very much longer, a little back to what it once was, when it was relatively free to go, and I thought it was good to remember that it's a reason that we have a national motor vehicle code. Before getting it in place, a set of laws had a steady increase in motorized travel in the field, with the consequences it had for nature and outdoor life. The size wanted, therefore, to avoid a further increase in motor travel, so that the disadvantages could be reduced. Promise you'll be from 1977. But the law gave the municipalities great freedom to give their own regulations on motor travel. At the same time, it did not work as well as one had thought, for the motorcycling and the number of running gear continued to increase sharply even after the promise was in place. Some municipalities interpreted the rules very liberally, some of them more liberally than there was, and there was a very wide variation, not least, between the rules. This resulted in a national regulation in 1988, which provides some common rules for nature and open-air living, but also a good room for local awareness. There's a bunch of suggestions here. The Progress Party has a number of proposals and wishes to see a strong liberalisation of the legislation in terms of sum, and, as far as I can understand, that there should only be national rules in the areas of protection. Such a change will invalidate the limit we have now set to allow you to run for useful purposes, but to limit other executions. I believe that the consequence of this would be a very strong increase in motor travel. That may be a wish, of course, but I think that's what you should be able to agree that would happen. Obviously it has consequences for the outdoors and for those who don't want such an increase. I think it's worth reminding the Storting and ourselves that eight out of ten in Norway are negative to increased motor travel in the outland. It has to do with the fact that there are a lot of people who use it, not just those who use it with motorized vehicles. In view of the fact that there are so many suggestions here, and strong opinions from many parties, it's good, I think, that there seems to be a plurality of a proposal to get a proper review and a revision of the rules seen below, where one takes care of nature and outdoors, and where everyone gets the opportunity to be heard. I think that is a good conclusion to these matters, and I will of course follow up that work conscientiously in the future if it should be agreed today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5441	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5446	First, I would like to thank the Council of State and not least the government parties for a very constructive and solution-oriented dialogue in order to be able to secure a majority in the Grand Duchy for the revision of the Motor Traffic Act with a view to increasing autonomy for municipalities and reducing bureaucracy. The representatives of Ketil Kjenseth, the party trap of the Council of State, and Lars Haltbrecken have a very polarizing debate. ==References====External links== inside it to drive ‘free and wild’ with snowmobiles in the wild, and Haltbrecken said ‘hery free with snowmobiles in the wild’. None of the 32 proposals that the Progress Party has put forward in this matter, I suppose, suggests a drive like what they are sketching. Do you have any comments on that?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5451	The President recalls that the speech should be addressed to the President and not in du form to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5456	I would like to say that the way in which both the representative Mr Kjeseth and the representative Mr Haltbrecken formulated themselves is within the limits of what we can say to be right in a debate in which there are many strong points of view. It has also been a relatively fresh formulation from others in this debate, among others. Mr Borch. I think it's also going to be okay. We can take it. But then to the question from the representative Strifeldt. With the sum of the many proposals presented today by the Progress Party, I can't see it any other way than that, at least outside the protection areas, there will be more or less freedom, without national restrictions on the use of different motor vehicles in the field. If the result of that will be a run that is calm and defensive or free and wild, then the time will show, but that there will be more running on a significant scale, I don't think the representative will disagree. On the contrary, I believe that it is the intention of the proposals. Of course, I do, but I don't want to recommend that they be passed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5463	As I was in my post, the Progress Party also wants a law that underlies, so we don't feel completely taken by the claims of those representatives. The Council of State noted that eight out of ten in Norway were negative to a change in the Motor Traffic Act. Now it's probably like two out of ten live within Ring 3 and may never have seen a snowmobile, but when you get into the areas where snowmobiles are used, the numbers are very different – that there are eight out of ten who want to change the motorcycling law. In the process that is now underway with a view to revising the Motor Traffic Act, I hope the Council of State will provide a broad consultation and to engage and seek cooperation with associations, snowmobile clubs, the Joint Council of Snowmobile Clubs and industry, to find good solutions that can benefit a good motorcycling law that has legitimacy in the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5470	I realize that there are strong voices in the country that want you to be able to run a lot more with snowmobiles, with ATV and with other vehicles in nature. I don't doubt they exist. On the contrary, I know that very well. If it's the case that large numbers of people around the country will, at least I haven't seen any measurements that suggest it. I allowed myself enough to doubt it, because in all parts of the country, at least I meet people who are concerned about both that it would be possible to enjoy nature free of motor noise, and not least that nature should be able to be at peace from human influence. There are many areas that are important for calving, for hedges and for nature, where a significant increase in motor travel will be very disruptive. I think that is a lot of meaning, including in particular: Northern parts of the country. But to take the question, yes, if this joint proposal is agreed, I will follow it up. Then I'll definitely add up to a whole process where we can get a lot of views on these issues. That's what I think is important -- not just jumping into a series of suggestions like it was put up for today, but getting a thorough and defensive process.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5477	When even this representative sees some of the proposals for the Progress Party going too far, they go too far. But that's not what I was supposed to ask. I would like to ask whether the proposal of which the Left is also a part, the joint motion of the government parties and the Progress Party. It says that in the long term, there is a desire to increase local self-government and reduce the bureaucracy associated with law enforcement. What measures does the Council of State consider to be sensible in order to ensure more local self-government, and when will this job be started?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5486	I am so that one can have a local influence on rules around motor travel, and I am generally in order to strengthen the local self-government. I also think that within motor travel there is reason one should have that kind of influence, and that things should be experienced as bureaucratic, I am generally opposed. So one might say that I have an open mind when it comes to seeing what is suitable for increasing local self-government, but I am that there should also be strict national leadership around what is important common values, that one takes care of nature, that one takes care of outdoor life. I'm very pleased that is the mark of the proposal that's common, and that's also left behind, as opposed to the proposal of the Center Party and the Labour Party, which was enough to get multiple numbers. That's what I think is good. Then I also thought it would be unfortunate if a now started to interfere with the planning and building law. It would give nothing less bureaucracy, to say it cautiously. I also think it could have a number of unfortunate consequences for nature if you were to start using a planning tool to regulate motor travel. So I'm glad that the proposal that's now about to get multiples, gets it, rather than what was the alternative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5493	I can take an example that I know the Council of State is familiar with, and that's the so-called Tanja case in the municipality of Røyrvik in Trøndelag, where a family has applied for permission to run ATV with the necessary equipment for a cabin they rent out, which they use as a secondary industry. It's about five trips a year. Here, the directorate has put his foot down and said they can't use ATV to drive five trips to the cabin with the necessary equipment. However, what they have said is that this family must use helicopters to bring the necessary equipment to the cabin, which is an important nutritional basis for the family. The municipality has agreed clearly and clearly that they should be allowed to do so. The director said no. Is it local administration of motor travel law?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5501	It is possible to use ATV or other vehicles to carry materials and equipment in the field also on open-air. No serious reasons are required either. The regulation requires that one should do so, running along a tractor’s road, for nature’s sake. There have been some things, including the representative here referred to, where there is no tractor road available, but where one still wants to use ATV and run in pure nature, so to speak, to the cabin. It may of course mean that one should be able to do so, but I also believe the representative has to admit that it has great consequences for nature to do so. There are a lot of people who have cabins in Norway, who are in such a situation, and not everyone is sure to use helicopter to carry things there. I know that it's common to carry things in with snowmobiles in winter when there's snow, and then the consequences for nature are smaller, for example. So there are possibilities here, but opening up so that a free can run to cabins on motorized running gear in the summer, with the consequences it has for nature, I don't recommend.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5508	First of all, I would like to thank the Council of State for supporting a perfectly correct and quite neutral description, in my opinion, of the proposals of the Progress Party. So to the question: now there is a proposal to be adopted here today, where you will give increased local self-government and reduced bureaucracy related to the practice of the law on motor travel in the countryside. My simple question is: does the Council of State believe that this proposal leads to more or less driving in nature?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5515	The answer is that it depends on how this revision will finally be, for the first time proposed by the government and then agreed in the Stortinget. So it's probably too early to answer that. But I would like to believe that the representative, whom I believe we want to weigh heavily on nature and outdoor interests, is happy that this proposal is appropriate to be agreed, rather than the alternative from the cooperation party to SV – the Labour Party and the Centre – where one proposes to increase the right of self-determination locally on motor travel, but without entirely mentioning the concerns of natural or outdoor interests, and where planning and building laws should be the way to regulate it. I believe that the representative of the Socialist Left would not have preferred that proposal, and in this way he should find reason to be pleased that we are now getting a better process where all relevant considerations are taken care of, and where we have a national motor vehicle traffic regulation legislation that will continue to regulate motor travel in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5522	Yes, there are definitely proposals that are worse than what is being adopted – I fully agree with the Council of State. But the best thing would have been if nothing had been decided at all. Then I want to try another variant of my question. Will the Council of State rule out that this change, which is now due to be adopted, will lead to more motorized travel in nature?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5529	The Council of State is enough able to understand that behind the verbal curvature with which the representative tried to rephrase his question, the question is really the same. So the answer is probably the same thing as on the previous question. So I think it's good that we can now get a proper process around these things, because as many people have been about: yes, there are many who have a strong commitment to getting more motorcycling in Norwegian nature, and then there are also many who are of a very different opinion. I think it's good, when we're now going to look at these rules in the light of a strong commitment, that everyone gets settled. So I look forward to starting that process.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5536	Of course, it is disappointing that the 32 concrete proposals of the Progress Party are rejected in Stortinget today, but it is a little patch on the wound that we get agreement with the government parties – not the government. This is not a government proposal, as the Workers' Party is trying to make the impression. It is a proposal in the Stortinget between the Progress Party and the government parties that can be positive – at least a small step in the positive direction. It's interesting to notice that we're able to find that consensus with the bourgeois parties. The centre party and the Labour Party, which I believe is relatively verbal in these cases, have launched a proposal – which, to the extent that the Council of State has also been involved – that points towards perhaps even more bureaucracy, even more difficult conditions for municipalities to regulate this and to facilitate the use of motorised travel in the outland. Does the Council agree with the assessment that the actual proposal of the Central Party will involve red tape?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5543	The proposal from the Centre Party and the Workers' Party that we should start mixing planning and building laws into this, I agree with the potential to do things even more bureaucratic than today. And it'll be an unwieldy piece of legislation, where it'll be hard to know what's going on and what to stick to. I don't want any more bureaucratic processes in general – nor about motor traffic. I also believe – and I would like to add it – that starting to apply the law of planning and building can, in addition to making it more bureaucratic, in and of itself also go harder than nature – depending on how you put it up. Not least there may be grounds for ownership, because the landowners are in spite of all those who can determine whether there should be motor traffic on their property. They can say no to today. With the Planning and Building Act, you can open up the possibility of thinking about expropriation law and taking from people that right. So in general, I'm going to say it's an unusually bad idea to mix the planning and building laws into this. We need a national law on motor travel that is easy to adhere to and understand, and that takes care of local self-determination, nature and outdoor interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5552	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5557	The Progress Party has been fighting to liberalise motor travel in outland for decades. We've been alone in that barricade in many ways, but I'm recording that the Center Party has signed up in the last few years of opposition. But they put eight years in government without lifting a single finger to liberalize motor travel in the outland. They voted in favour of the proposals The Progress Party joined the Stortinget, and now they are trying to give the impression of something completely different. History has taught us what is the fact. So you can make a proposal in the Chamber today that will mean even more bureaucracy, bureaucracy, even less local self-government and even more intransigence in the field of motor vehicle traffic legislation. It is with respect to report bad political craftsmanship. But then I'm glad that together with the government parties, interestingly, we actually manage to find some small steps in the right direction. It is interesting, and those who are concerned with liberalising motor travel in the outland should note this: when you listen to the Central Party rhetoric in this area, you can get the impression that if there is a government change, it will open up to liberalisation. It's with all due respect to report the wrong thing. Because they have to agree with SV, and we have heard what SV thinks about this. SV tries to ridicule the 32 proposals of the Progress Party, that so many proposals are unnecessary. Well, that is an important matter for the Progress Party, so we have many proposals. It's a matter for which we've fought for a long time, and for which we're going to continue to fight. It is completely incomprehensible that we have confidence that the municipalities in this country are able to take care of our very weakest in society. They are able to take care of our children as they grow up, and they are able to take care of our elderly on the day they need help from the municipality. You have confidence in that. The Storting has confidence in that. Yes, that's the whole basis for how Norwegian municipalities work. But when it comes to this – let's say – concrete thing about how to use your own land, you don't have the confidence that the municipalities are able to manage it. It is completely incomprehensible that you trust the municipalities in all these important areas, but you do not trust that the municipalities can regulate motor travel in the outfield themselves. The Progress Party has taken the consequences of this. That is why we are promoting these proposals. We're getting some small steps in the right direction, but it's actually thanks to, amazingly enough, that we're working with the government parties, and it has nothing to do with what the center party has to do with the front of this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5566	As others have said, the issue today is about a number of proposals that aim to red tape the legislation on motorcycling law. Unfortunately, it does not seem that any of them will have a majority, but I would like to raise the proposal that the Central Party has made today. It is a matter of allowing municipalities to authorise ATV on land where off-road business is a serious cause. I have great confidence that the municipalities are able to handle such applications themselves, without there being a law that is actually a prohibition. I want to take the example I mentioned instead, and that's the so-called Tanja case from Røirvik. Here the directorate has finally refused to apply for a derogation from the law in order to run the necessary equipment for a cabin they use for rental, among others. for hunters and fishermen. They've been doing that for over 40 years. So now they refuse to drive five trips a year up to the cabin with the necessary equipment. The director says they'd rather be able to use helicopters. Get it! Get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get This testifies to a code that has been completely failed. And if it's the climate perspective that's important for this government, someone has to explain to me why it's so much better to fly helicopter to cabin versus five trips with ATV. Helicopters are not an alternative to this family because it gets too expensive. Røyrvik Municipality has agreed that the family can drive five trips a year to this cabin, but the Oslo authority in the directorate is clearly saying no and says that they can rather use helicopters. It's as far away from reality and as little practical as you can get, and it testifies to a government that doesn't know what the real world actually looks like out there. I hope that the Labour Party and the Progress Party will be able to participate in and help us to get a majority in favour of the proposal that is now on the agenda. Another thing: Today we see that a number of representatives from the Right are out and say that they have had the effect of fully revising the law on motor travel because they have gone into what is a vague proposal from the Progress Party – without any consultation at all. If I know the Council of State correctly, he will not contribute to making changes that give municipalities more authority in matters relating to motor traffic. It is probably also the only proposal that gets a majority today, but I notice that the Progress Party has not changed very much. They still have great confidence that the government and the Council of State from the Left will get through on this matter. I have my natural scepticism after eight years with this government. We have a government that for eight years, together with the Progress Party, has trained a number of issues relating to motor traffic law.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5583	I would like to refer to the argument from the Center Party on the use of Planning and Building Laws. I can only say that the planning and building laws are good in many areas, but there is no automatic way that the use of the planning and building laws in this matter will in itself give simplifications or increase the image to the municipalities – on the contrary. There will be more bureaucracy, more unclear guidelines to work for municipalities, and this has been made clear by the Council of State in its letter of reply to the Committee and in the change of line. Such a connection can open up to an even more complex and inconsistent legal framework, which makes it more complicated for municipalities. By proposing decisions from the Centre Party and the Labour Party, a large amount of red tape is being built up instead of building up the number of cases in the municipalities. In the Right, we want to use our tax money for service production, not for paper moving and long bureaucratic processes that only lead to frustration and little real local involvement. The question is then: is it desirable to be able to expropriate to facilitate loops that form the basis for such a connection? Or is there a desire to improve the provision of deposits from other underlying governmental bodies? The relationship between the design and construction laws and the motor traffic laws was carefully assessed in conjunction with the introduction of the snowmobile loop system in 2014-2015 and the interconnection was discarded after the hearing. We don't see any significant changes in the landscape since the last time this was on the phone, and so the Storting does the wisest thing to put it down when we go to voting. I also record that SV has concluded in advance on the outcome of the revision. We don't have that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5597	Motor travel in the countryside is important for large parts of the country. Many people are shaking their heads at the fact that the Progress Party is promoting so many good, concrete proposals in this matter and that it is a small matter. Even I don't drive snowmobiles. Most people in the country don't drive snowmobiles. But it wouldn't have bothered me to restrict other people's use of snowmobiles. For the Progress Party, as a liberal party, it is quite clear that people and municipalities themselves can make these elections in the best possible way. For this reason, the Progress Party promotes many very concrete proposals on how to liberalise motorised travel in land and to exercise local self-government. What SV calls 'too free in nature', I would rather call a buffet of good suggestions. The local self-government is something you hear about in party speeches, but for the Progress Party it actually matters. We want to move power and decisions to local democracy because we believe, in fact, that the citizens through their elected representatives in the local government are best placed to make the decisions themselves. But a majority in this Chamber does not want to vote in favour of the many and good proposals of the Progress Party. We propose, among other things: to allow municipalities to manage the law on motorised outland traffic, which ensures full local self-government. It is only the Progress Party that is behind it. Even proposals on life, health, safety and preparedness are being voted down in this Chamber today. In the municipality of Sirdal in Agder, the Red Cross and the Emergency Team want to train in an area that is protected. Of course, because they know that there's an area that's weathering, it's hard to get there, and they want to get to know the area and train to save lives. That is why the Progress Party has proposed exactly that – that there should be training in such areas. Even it's going to be down in this room. If that's what SV thinks is free to wear in Norwegian nature, I think you have to be realistic.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5618	I am pleased with the agreement of the four parties on the civil side today. It shows that when the four parties come together on the civil side, solutions are found that are unbureaucratic, while when the other side tries to agree on something, there is always more bureaucracy – everything is going to get harder. The centre party and the Labour Party can stand on this pulpit as much as they want and talk about that they will do things better, but there is more bureaucracy their policy always leads to. I don't think that's intentional, I don't think it's on purpose, that's just how it always ends up on that side of politics for some reason. But my theme is actually a different one. In January we could read in the Nettavisen that the Vice-Chairman of the Socialist Left Party, Knag Fylkesnes, warned the Workers' Party and the Centre against not having an SV. In the evening post, after the national meeting of the Socialist Left Party, the Light Hill warned against the cold shoulder Socialist Left Party got from the Center Party. But if you looked down in the case, you also saw a number of statements from various state leaders that seemed desperate after being allowed to sit in government with the Center Party. It's just a quick clarification I want. As the representative Lars Haltbrecken stood up on the speaker's chair and spoke so negatively about the Progress Party in this matter, it is now time that the centre party in the same case criticises the Advance Party for not going far enough. So my question is very simple: is the representative Lars Haltbrecken just as desperate to sit with the Central Party and cooperate with them on natural things as the leaders of the Socialist Left Party are, and as the management of the Socialist Left Party is?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5627	This debate shows that in many parties there is a long way between life and learning. The centre party has worked hard every year to increase local self-government, less involvement by the state, better organization of business in the districts and less bureaucracy. The closer that one comes, the more other parties seem to be concerned about the same thing. Both the Right Party, the Labour Party and the Advance Party are trying to create the impression that they are occupied by District Norway, by less bureaucracy and by more autonomy. This is obviously just optional bottle. It is shocking that today, in practice, the Storing is stretching its feet away from district jobs. The proposal from the Centre Party to continue today’s practice of allowing the use of ATV on land where commercial activity is a serious cause appears to have only the votes of the Centre Party. Here it is, for example. a family business which has been operating for 40 years with the same practice and which is now authorised by the municipality to continue to maintain that job. But no, the government is stretching its feet away from this too. There's no one here in the hall who thinks they're going to keep running this industry. It's quite shocking. Does the Progress Party, the Right and the Labour Party really believe that overrun of local democracy and the closure of district jobs are the right way to go? Another proposal from the Centre Party is time-limited to drive to your own cabin. Today it is such that one must search every third year or something like this to get to drive to his own cabin. It's the same as driving, and the cabin is in the same place, but it still has to be rescanned. I have never heard of anyone who has received a rejection of that application. So this is bureaucracy, and when we are now making a proposal to limit bureaucracy, no one here in the Chamber is going to vote for it. Right, the Labour Party and the Advance Party are talking about simplification. This is a proposal that does not lead to any more driving and does not go beyond nature. It has no consequences other than that there will be a little less bureaucracy. But they don't want any of that. I am by no means a fan of free slip, but none of our proposals add up to more scooter driving. They add up to safer driving, e.g. the proposal for the use of trampling machines to prepare snowmobile loops, or less red tape, such as the need not to apply regularly for driving to their own cabin, or the maintenance of current practices in the case of ice fishing loops. Unfortunately, there is no one here in the room who is occupied by District Norway and the conditions there.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5640	Today has actually been a brilliant day for ice fishing in the Rana municipality, maybe up with the Virvas dam, but that's impossible now. I want to concentrate on the old ice fishing loops in my post and refer to proposal No. 39, from the Centre Party: ‘The Government asks the Government to amend the rules for motorised outland transport so that established ice fishing loops can be maintained if the municipalities so wish.’ This will not lead to any new loops, but in this country there is a handful of the old ice fishing loops that do not seem to go further in the law change that was in 2015. This applies to loops which have been fixed since 1977. There are loops that have been open for 44 years, among other things. Run to the Virvassdamm in the Rana municipality. There are several generations of open-air people who have used these loops. There was a guy who wrote to me that he was taken there by his parents. Afterwards he has changed diapers on all his kids on the ice. This is a generation case, it's tradition, it's outdoors, and it's so much, much more than recreation. On a question from me, the Council of State confirmed that the intention of the amendment of the law was not to close the old ice fishing loops. Nevertheless, there are some places happening. The recreational loops, that is, the old ice fishing loops, weren't that much of a ride. It seems that it is easier for both reindeer and others to approve it, so there are a few loops, among other things. one in Tidal, which is closed because it is not possible to attach a regulation to an ice fishing loop, and the one in Rana, which is closed after 44 years. That means that a very strong and fine outdoor experience will be impossible for many people, because it is 40 km trip/return on ski.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5654	I'm going to go into the individual proposals. First of all, Mr Mossleth, the ice fishing loops are being maintained in our proposal No. 4, which is also supported and supported by the Center Party. I would like to say to the representative, Mr Greni, that in the case of business, it is also covered by our proposal No. 4, on which the centre party is involved, so I see no reason why the centre party needed to make a proposal about it today. When it comes to reducing red tape in terms of exemptions for driving to cabins, we have taken care of what the representative Mr Greni was about, in our proposal No. 27. Maybe the Center Party hasn't caught up with that. They haven't supported it. So this is about driving freely and wild and herding freely in nature with snowmobiles, which some have mentioned. We're not there. We have a lot of good, concrete suggestions to help us get a motor racing law that works according to today's practice. It is a little special that neither Left nor SV will support our proposal No. 10, which would ensure the organised exercises of emergency organisations directly authorised by law. There are largely non-governmental organisations that operate well to ensure that we are safe when skiing in nature and not least in protected areas. Most people are confident that emergency services will be provided and will contribute if they need help. I would also like to comment on the preparation of ski sheds. Skiing is really good for housing and public health, but in Nord-Troms and Finnmark it is prohibited after May 5. It will also be in the rest of the country from 15 June this year — prohibiting the preparation of ski cabins by motorised vehicles. It should have been allowed directly by law. Sports teams and non-governmental organisations are also involved in this. Furthermore, it is not permitted to operate private practice after recreational loops other than in Nord-Troms and Finnmark. Why should it not be possible to train on a belt motorcycle in parts of the country other than in Nord-Troms and Finnmark after recreational loops? We have a lot of simple, straightforward proposals that we don't fully understand why the majority in the main hall can't support.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5667	First, I just need to clarify that I was guilty of a factual error in my previous post. I argued quite unjustly that the Progress Party had only made 32 proposals in this case. The right thing is, of course, 33 proposals, and I'm sorry to have said the wrong thing about the Storting Chair. Then we hear that the Right has not pre-concluded whether the proposal to be adopted will lead to more or less motorized travel in nature. Then I would like to ask the other proposers: the Progress Party, do they think this will lead to more or less motorized movement in nature? Left, do they think it will lead to more or less motorized travel in nature? And Christian People's Party, do they think it will lead to more or less motorized travel in nature, when you're going to make it easier to get permission to drive snowmobiles? I was challenged by the representative Heggelund whether we really want to sit in a new government after the election. Yes, of course we do. This case also shows how important it is with a strong SV in such a government after the election.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5678	Many strange claims have been made in this debate. The representative, Kjeseth, said that more local self-government could mean that it became much more restrictive, that it was not certain that all the municipalities would escape. It's completely wrong facts. It is today that this is the framework for what the municipalities can adopt. There are many municipalities today that don't have the opportunity to let people drive to their own cabin, who don't have a scooter loop, and who don't at all facilitate anything else, perhaps, than a rental ride. Of course that's what local self-government is, here the municipalities have to decide for themselves. So getting local self-government doesn't mean that it becomes more restrictive, that means that the municipalities themselves have to decide, but today the framework is so tight that they can't decide what they want. On May 17th the royal ship was out, and there were very many boats out on the Oslofjord, and everyone thought it was very nice that there was a lot of boat traffic on the Oslofjord. That was what I thought. But when you hear the rhetoric in this case, in the case of snowmobiles, we have to start wondering if the answer is that we have to have a common motorbike license on all kinds of water, and then I think of water in solid form and water in liquid form. Because it's very strange that there should be such a big difference in the way the boat people and the scooter people are treated. What's the difference? Well, they at sea fight more, they pollute considerably more, they have four to five times as long a season, and what they have in common is that no one sets permanent tracks. Why in the world should people in the interior be discriminated against? Then I hear the Progress Party make a little fool of the Central Party's proposal on the Planning and Building Act, and then I wonder if anyone from the Progress Party can explain what is different with proposal No. 15, from the Progress Party, where they ask the government to return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner, with proposals to allow the municipality to apply the Planning and Building Act where they consider it appropriate to administer the Motor Traffic Act in the outland. What makes that proposal much less bureaucratic than the proposal we have? Then I hear the council say that there is largely local autonomy as it is today. My municipality has adopted a recreational loop, a recreational loop, unanimously on the local council. Objection was raised by the State. We fixed everything they thought we had not done properly. We made a new decision, we relaunched it, and now there's objections to completely new things they've invented to try to train this. A new unanimous local government has adopted it. But no then, here's the state that's going to outrun local democracy, and when we try to get into business development in the district, we're stopped by the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5689	I can understand that it may be a bit difficult for people in Oslogryta, where the brook is fully sprung, to get into the situation of the mountain areas around the polar circle, but I want them to try to do it. Although the representative of the Progress Party refers to proposal No. 4, I think if it doesn't get a majority, I think all the parties that are in the hall today are not against the old recreational loops. I can take the representatives to Vervatnet. Then you run scooters, not in pristine nature, we run scooters in along a road that is open to motorized traffic 24 hours a day and a year around when there is no snow on this road. If the road is broken, it is possible to drive a car, it is not prohibited. The Governor of the State of Nordland has established this loop in the form of a regulation. The State administrator of Trøndelag – the farther away, the more difficult it is to get into the situation – has said that this gap cannot be a recreational loop because it is an open-air area. At the same time, the Environment Directorate says that this area is one of the areas most affected by hydropower deployment. It's going in there, there's walled up a pond there, but the area is great. Despite the fact that there are large landfills around, there is a great entrance to an open-air area, and there is a lot of use. This road is kept open because people in the countryside would get something left when old rivers were drained due to power expansion. I think that this proposal is a proposal that everyone can vote for, given that there are few loops, it is a simple one that allows them to be maintained on the basis of the ice fishing principle. These are fleas that are very important to the home, to the shelter, to the food, and to the outdoors. It's with an appeal to reason – the intention is not to close this loop, it says the council itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5700	Let me start by answering SV. It's very easy to answer SV. When the Progress Party supports this proposal, it is because we want to liberalise the Planning and Building Act. We want to make it easier for municipalities to facilitate motorised travel in the outland. That's the whole point of letting local democracy decide on these issues. So the answer to that is: it will mean increased motorized travel in the outfield – but because it is locally anchored. Of course, it's totally dependent on local democracy taking those decisions. Then it's added. Then I register that the Central Party is up in the pulpit and makes individual proposals that they challenge us to make a decision. We have – correctly – 32 proposals plus a so-called loose proposal, that is 33 proposals, in this area, which takes care of all the matters pointed out by the Central Party, and so on and much more. Then it's clear. Secondly, when you try to refer to proposal No. 15, if it poses a problem and compares it to the Centre's own proposal to apply the Planning and Building Act, it is completely wrong, because it is a matter of specific application in specific cases relating to land use. If the Central Party thought it was the same as they themselves proposed, why are they not voting in favour of our proposal? In any case, the obligation to use the Planning and Building Act to control this is extremely unwise. The Council of State has come up with that, many speakers today have been talking about that very point, which the Central Party has as a very basic proposal in this matter. For those who are a little familiar with the Planning and Building Act, there will be a number of objections when the municipalities want to use outland. The merger, the reindeer operation, environmental organisations, environmental interests, one thing with the other – all of these are going to travel by bus. There will be long planning processes that will end in nothing. That is the reality. That is what the Centre Party proposes – more bureaucracy, less local autonomy. Then I'll agree with the Center Party in one thing. This issue probably reflects a lack of understanding in key areas — using the example in ring 2 — for the situation in rural areas. I actually agree with that. It is a relatively arrogant attitude that is spurred on by some politicians from big cities who just don't like motorized driving in the outland, who just don't like snowmobiles – because they don't like it. I think that's very sad. As a result, districts have been pressured on legislation that makes this extremely difficult. I hope that today we can help start a process that reverses it, and that will also give us greater freedom in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5711	I now have a few comments towards the end of the debate. The representative, Gisle Meiniger Saudland, said that he wasn't running snowmobiles himself, but that as a member of a liberal party, he wouldn't dream of limiting others to doing it. I'm also a member of a liberal party, and I don't have the goal of demarcating the freedom of people. If it was like using motor vehicles in the wild only checked yourself, it is only possible to get started. The challenge is that it is not. It also affects many others who want to use nature, and not least it affects nature itself. In this context, I was going to refer to the next case we're going to deal with, to get new global natural goals, because in that setting, the committee, including the members of the Center Party and the Advance Party, writes that it's important to preserve nature. It's ‘entirely crucial to our existence and well-being. It is also the whole foundation of our economy and employment. [[...]] The Committee emphasises that natural areas are also in sharp decline in Norway, with loss of biodiversity and greenhouse gas emissions as a consequence. [[...]] We must stop the destruction of nature, restore ruined nature and facilitate more nature, both in Norway and internationally.’ It writes the Center Party and the Progress Party in the next case, along with the rest of the committee. It's good writing, and I'm completely united, but then it also has to reflect the way we treat individual things. I am in order for us to be able to have local self-government, and certainly in some areas more than today, even within motor travel, but there are other animals – other than us – that use that nature and are exposed. To have e.g. full release of snowmobiles in vulnerable natural areas goes out over reincalves in the spring, it goes out over the mountain reefs, it goes out over birds in the nesting season, it goes out over many species that are very pressured in Norway. One must also bring it, and I should like that perspective to be more involved in the debate from several of the representatives, because there must be some rules when it comes to it. The representative Heidi Greni talked about how she thought it was strange that we should have different rules for water in solid and liquid water, but I can assure you that this has nothing to do with water, it has to do with the animal species that live in that water or on that snow. I think the representatives of the Center Party and the Progress Party are basically in agreement, at least it seems in the next case, that the kind of vulnerable species we also need to consider when it comes to human activity. There are many things that are being raised here, which have been discussed in the knowledge and the broad. One of the things that Sandra Borch mentioned is that the Central Party wants one to be able to run ATV in the open anyway, as long as one can spend money on it. It's said that there's something you want locally, and then the Oslo authority in the directorate said no. Then I have to remind myself that in this specific case, it is the State administrator of the Trøndelag that has made a decision, which is maintained by the Environment Directorate, and the Environment Directorate is not so far from the State administrator of Tøndelag, it is located in Trondheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5730	The representative Bengt Rune Strifeldt has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5735	The representative Greni was in on the small boat traffic in the south. It may almost seem as if the Center Party will tighten up the small boat traffic in the south if we don't get a more liberal motor racing license. I have to say I very disagree with the Center Party there. You're so excited – use the little boat and eat it! If I've hurt my foot, it won't be better for me if the neighbor gets hurt in the foot as well. We'd better work for a better motorcycling law. As far as Mossleth was concerned, on the unbroken road, the Progress Party has taken care of this in proposal No. 24, but the Center Party wouldn't support it. We've taken care of the fact that we're also going to define the unbroken path as an inland, so that you can use it the same way you do in the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5742	I'm going to start this article with some confessions, because this also signifies becoming a debate about the city and the building, and a common rule technique is, of course, placing the left on the Grünerløkka. But I live in the village. I own an ATV. I've been driving snowmobiles. So we have more with us someone maybe would believe. The ATV was in the garage for two years. I was going to use it for a cab ride, but I could not use it at all. And snowmobiles -- yeah, it's fun to drive. But in the rural area where I live, there are also cabin people who think that it is a species to get along, and the state's nature agency spends a lot of time and resources following up that trip. There are some challenges here that we have to take seriously, and it's not always that those that give the most gas give us the best answers to what administration we're going to have. So with my background from Building Norway, I think it makes sense – and as the Council of State says, it's eight out of ten who don't want more motorized traffic and noise around the cabin – to do this gently. An investigation is good. Let a lot of people talk. I also said in my post that there are some positive features here in terms of new technology that can help us improve regulation, for better organisation. There are some municipalities that have been very nice to accommodate now, and learning from them is obviously good. So we have some possibilities actually to get better, and they're able to reach for, and that's the red, liberal mind layer left is on. Yeah, we can try this out. The representative, Mr Strifeldt, from the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, tabled a proposal on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Yes, the emergency services are doing a great job; they can obviously get more opportunities to train. I see no contradiction between that proposal and the investigation we're going to do. They can well be carried out in the investigations we are now going to do. Is there anyone here that we don't give enough opportunity? There are, of course, other proposals here, quite specifically. But what's good about this proposal is that we're now giving room to maybe open up a little bit, but also to learn from the trials and measures we've done, and the technology that's coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5753	The representative Heidi Greni has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5758	First, to the representative Amundsen, who came up with a long list of organisations that could have objection authority if we included it under the Planning and Building Act. All he has calculated have objected to the path we have in the Holtålen – the one path. This applies to both the Gårebrien site, to the Nature Conservation Association, to the Sameting, etc. So there's absolutely no new ones that will get the right to object because if one places it under the Planning and Building Act. Unfortunately, that's the way it is. So to the councillor, who obviously didn't realize my point that here they run on water, sometimes in solid form and sometimes in liquid form: why doesn't the ministry have any care for those who run on water? Don't disturb those wildlife, and there's no noise for those who want peace and quiet when they're at the Oslo Earth, etc.? Finally, I have to confirm that the Senterparte will not in any way stop the life of a small boat. Don't be deleted – they're unfamiliar – but we want the same rights for us in the interior.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5765	The representative Sandra Borch has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5770	The representative of Amundsen referred to the red-green government which entered into force in 2007. Then I was Russian, and I wasn't even politically active. I don't know how old the representative Amundsen was then, but I don't have to count back so far in time to make the representative Amundsen responsible. Because they've been in government for six and a half years. The representative Amundsen has even been part of the government, but has not lifted a finger to debureaucratise the law on motor travel. Finally, I note the game of the Progress Party in this matter when they cannot support any of the proposals of the Centre Party, and I believe that this has been taken care of in the proposals of the Progress Party. Well, I could say exactly the same about the proposals to the Central Party, but we choose to support the proposals that we agree with and that we think are good, from the Progress Party. But I notice, as I said, the game of the Progress Party in this matter, and that you are not committed to voting for the proposals you are in favour of. So just a small explanation of vote – with reference to it: the Central Party will subsidly support the proposal put forward by the Government Parties together with the Support Party of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5779	The representative Siv Mossleth has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5784	I would like to point out some details in this ice fishing practice. Ice fishing for the Virvas pond has been open for 44 years. It's been used both wisely and rationally. The municipality and the state administrator in the Nordic region are positive to the gap. The Directorate of Trondheim and the Ministry of the Environment were in favour of this ice fishing industry when it was laid down in the Protection Regulation. There is forest protection from 2011 in the area, but the leopard was not a problem for this forest protection in 2011. Then there was a red-green government sitting at the rudder. The minister says that the intention of the amendment is not to close the ice fishing industry, but will not do anything. This government is overrun, overhearing and making it difficult for people in the districts to have a good outdoor life and drive food. I hope he changes his mind.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5791	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5796	Some specific answers: The representative, Mr. Greni, takes up objections and says that this is the case today. Yes, it's true that it's like this today, but the whole point is that we're going to remove it. That's the whole point of introducing local autonomy. That is what the Progress Party proposes, but the Centre Party still wishes to raise objections. We note that this is interesting, but at least it is a clarification. To the representative Borch: Well, the red-green government joined already in 2005, and not in 2007. In fact, the situation then was that nothing happened in the eight years up to 2013, but with the Progress Party in government, it was actually tried – before the Stortinget – to obtain some liberalisations in the law on motor travel in the field. Unfortunately, it didn't go far enough, but we keep working on it, and we're going to keep working on it even after the election. This is an important matter for the Progress Party. It has been for several decades, and the Progress Party has at least brought about changes in the law. The red-greens couldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5804	I've been listening a little bit to this debate, and I'm a little horrified at what's going on. I thought we should be able to do something better for those who have scooters, and who might want to drive a little bit longer and a little more often. But I see that there has been a debate in which one hangs on various proposals, and is not willing to give up in any way. Even I don't have scooters, but I know a lot of people who have scooters, and use it very often. On the other hand, I have a boat, and I can promise that I will not make any suggestions that will prevent us from using a boat. And I guess that's where it is. We who live the way we do, we don't have so many theatres and cinemas and things like that, but we have the opportunity to go to the mountains, and I thought that opportunity we were going to be able to do a little bit easier today. But it's become a debate where you run with a little shadow boxing, and where you don't have any willingness to find solutions, and so the matter goes back to the department, and then we get a new round on it. I really think it's sad that it's been like that. The 23 proposals for the Progress Party are good – I was involved in a debate here not very long ago, when the Centre Party was able to get it into such a way that we could drive ourselves to cabins that were a little closer, a change in the previous objectives. It got very good, and people were very happy about it. I hope that the Progress Party might look at what we're about to do now, and see if it's possible to get into a system that allows you to reach an agreement. That's what this is all about. Finally, it's a little sad that you can't talk in a proper way. For my part, I don't drive scooters, but those who use this means have to be allowed to do it, and within the usual rules that we have. I don't think there's going to be any greater environmental hazard if you, for example. runs a little more with scooters on Finnmarksvidda.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5815	Since the representative Mossleth has taken up the case with ice fishing loops now in three posts, I thought she would have a reply. She has just received an answer in writing, but she can also get it here from the pulpit. So the thing that's going on is a matter that I or the department haven't been in at all. It is decided — finally — by the State administrator of Trøndelag, as the State administrator of the Nordic State. I'm not in the details of the assessments made by the State administrator here, so I can't comment on it in detail, but in general, in order for a previous ice fishing loop to be used after 19 June 2021 – one has had a transitional period for old ice fishing loops – it has to be re-established according to the new rules that apply to snowmobile loops in motorbikes. So there's no such provision here, because the governor has lifted the municipality's decision. The administrator’s founding was the concern of mountain reefs and several red-listed species in the area for which it was important to protect. But as I said, this is a matter that is finally decided, which has not been dealt with in the department, and which has been decided by the administrator. And then finally, I can just make one last comment, and it's that I see more representatives now starting to set up a contrast between running a boat and running a snowmobile, understandably, as I see it, that running a boat is a drive in urban strok and south Norway, and that that's why it's free, while running a snowmobile is an activity in the countryside – and maybe especially in north Norway – and there it's very strict. That's not how we're going to debate. A running boat all over the country, and a running snowmobile all over the country. We have rules for both. It's not that it's free to run a boat right where you want it. When there is nesting time in vulnerable areas, there are limits to it. When it's vulnerable, and it's for very many periods – when birds nest on the wide, when reindeer calves, when mountain reefs are allowed to be in peace – it's rules for snowmobiles. It's good that we have rules of concern for vulnerable wildlife, whether it's on the sea or on the mountains, whether it's in North Norway or in South Norway. It is quite fine to disagree on the free movement of motor vehicles in this country, but to make this a matter where the only relevant thing is north and south, sea or snow – that's not what the debate is about. We must be able to debate matters on a case-by-case basis, in substance, on the basis of the regulations on which one can of course disagree – and there is no doubt that there is disagreement here. I still want to say that it is good that we do not now rush into a series of decisions that have not been heard, which have not been distributed, but that we can get a proper process, where everyone is being heard. That should be the case in a democracy, and not least around matters where very many have heavy interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5828	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5845	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5852	First of all, thank you to the Cooperation Committee in this matter, and to the Workers' Party that has promoted the case. This is about an agreement that we were supposed to be in China to negotiate last year, so this is not a matter that is new and completely unknown to neither the Stortinget nor the Ministry of Climate and Environment and the Council of State. This is a work that has been in progress for several years – preparing for the agreement that should have been made last year. When it couldn't happen, it's because we're in a pandemic. In addition to the pandemic, we have had two major challenges: we need to cut climate emissions and get control of the temperature increase in the world, and we need to control the loss of species. If this doesn't happen, we shoot ourselves in the foot, literally. We lose a life base, but we also take the life base of many other species and get an ecosystem that will become completely unbalanced – it doesn't tolerate too much change too quickly. The consequence is that we need to have more nature within a global market economy in terms of nature's resilience. It's not just about preserving, it's about stopping a development and driving it back. That means that we also have to restore some nature. At least we must have a comprehensive administration, both in Norway and at a global level, and it is therefore important that we have representative protection and leadership in Norway. We're on our way to 10 pst. forest protection in Norway. This government has done a lot to increase forest protection, and to a large extent it is voluntary. We're about to become a circular society, it's an important new turn. It's a discussion of how we use the resources and use them again. We also need to discuss how we produce food, both in Norway and internationally, and we need to bind more carbon in the future. Fortunately, we are doing a lot here, and Norway is one of the countries that have already built a large biocarbon plant. And then we've come a long way to introduce an ecological base map in Norway. Many municipalities do a lot to take care of red-listed species and have done a lot of work to map them. Together with the other Nordic neighbouring countries, we are keen to use technology and also to have an overview of nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5865	The natural crisis is perhaps the most under-communicated crisis in the world. Loss of nature is as great a threat as the climate crisis is. Fortunately, we now see that this is gradually becoming more and more aware of it. The climate crisis and the natural crisis are two crises that are very closely linked. They reinforce each other, and we can only solve them if we solve them together. The challenge is that we have a few years to deal with, and that is why we have to make sure that the policy comes along. If you can't get hurt, it'll be impossible to fix. From Stortinget's point of view, it is primarily through our national responsibility that we get to do something about this, that we weigh nature higher in each case. The Labour Party has proposed here on Stortinget how we can get an environmental policy that would do this, and we are going to continue to do so. But the Biggest must also engage internationally, because at the end of the day it is only through all countries taking their responsibilities that we can meet this great challenge. In China this year, a nature agreement is to be made. It's true, as our committee leader said, it was actually supposed to be held last year. The positive thing might be that there'll be even more attention this year, because we've now learned how much nature has for us humans. I hope that at that meeting in October 2021 we will reach a strong agreement to take care of nature. Then we want the Council of State and his competent offices to be very happy at the work that is being done, and that they are as ambitious as possible and able to take initiatives that bring with them other countries – although I hope there will be another Council of State going to China at the end of October, possibly logging into the digital meeting with the other Environment Ministers. This proposal we are considering today is a follow-up to the debate initiated by the Labour Party earlier this year. There it turned out that everyone involved in the debate had a great commitment to how the Storting should do more and engage more. Therefore, we believe it would be very good if, before the summit at the end of October, we had come up with a case for the Storting on our positions and how we see ourselves following it. We believe that we should already state that we are going to establish an action plan for Norway with all sectors of society. This is not just a matter of concern to the Minister for the Environment, it affects all sectors of Norwegian society how this should have been followed up. Because even though there's now more attention to nature, we just have to say that it's not the same expectations, the same commitment, the same spark around the summit now in October as it was in front of Paris. There we have a big job to do with mobilizing more forces. We believe that this proposal could be one way to do it, by putting in place a clear marshalling ground. What the government parties have decided to do, we really think is a weaker version of what the Workers' Party proposed, and is a confirmation of something that should actually be obvious – so of course we vote in favour of it. With that, I address the proposals of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5880	The representative of Åsmund Aukrust has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5885	The centre recognizes that society's development and consumption have been at the expense of nature's resilience. The world's population has increased sharply in recent years, and so has our consumption. It has led to a greater global pressure on nature and biodiversity. Species, plants and biodiversity have already been lost, and several are at risk of loss. This is a development that the Centre Party supports to halt. The fundamental question is how best to do this. In some cases it could be protection and protection, but not in all cases and not everywhere. There are different challenges at different sites, and there are different needs. The centre party believes that the best protection takes place through the management of resources that take place in a way that ensures the survival of species and plants. The use of nature is different. You have consumption by nature, where nature is ultimately destroyed, and you have the use of nature. The centre party is in the tradition of use, where you have to leave the farm to its successors in a better condition than what you took over. The centre party is therefore concerned that the UN Nature Agreement generally emphasises protection and high levels of protection as a comprehensively important instrument, regardless of different cultures and the real pressures on biodiversity at each site. This hampers the objective of achieving biodiversity through sustainable use. Norway has unique opportunities and a high potential for the further development of a circular bioeconomy based on production and harvesting — both in the sea and on land, and not least in renewable energy production. It is therefore important to develop a framework that is not only restrictive but stimulates natural use that provides good climate effects and smart environmental solutions. The centre party cannot support the proposals today – not because we are against it, but because we believe it would be appropriate for the government to come to the Stortingen first and explain the process and political basis for further work on the UN natural agreement. Just as in the climate debate, it is important to make sure that everyone is there. If you don't want to increase geographical, social and cultural differences. It will weaken the objectives of preserving biodiversity and halting the natural crisis. The starting point should be a broad debate on how Norway can help to put a stop to the natural crisis on our premises throughout the spectrum of approaches to a sensible and nationally adapted framework for nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5898	Living, diverse nature is the best climate action in the world. Nature captures and stores over half of all the carbon that humans emit. Natural carbon storage, whether it's in forest, hay, bogs, meadows or tares and phytoplankton, is our most important tool to reduce the content of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. Nature is at the same time the habitat of animals, fishes, plants, acidifying insects, an infinite number of microscopic helpers. It gives us food, clean air, water, flood protection, medicines and lots of good experiences without a performance hunt. We will take care of that for our children and grandchildren. The natural crisis is acute. Animal life and pristine nature disappear at record speed. 60 pst. the wild animal populations have disappeared for 50 years. We are facing the sixth mass extinction in the history of the earth. The last time was when the dinosaurs were eradicated 65 million years ago. That is why the UN's nature agreement must be as important to the natural policy as the Paris agreement has been to climate policy, as the Aukust representative was to it. The agreement shall set natural objectives for the period 2021 to 2030 based, inter alia, on: the reports of the International Natural Panel. Over the years, Norwegian governments have been very good at talking about nature and signing international environmental agreements. They have been far worse at doing good nature policy here in Norway, even though they actually stand up to the scooter populism of the worst kind, as illustrated by the previous debate. However, Norway has not achieved one of the 20 natural objectives set by the world’s country for 2020, the so-called Aichi targets. While climate policy has, after all, been exacerbated in recent decades, the opposite is true of natural policy. The government of Erna Solberg and Sveinung Rotevatn has allowed more construction in the coastal zone, restricted the opposition authority of the statesmen in order to preserve nature and entered to build a motorway through a nature reserve. We need to ensure that the nature agreement is properly implemented in Norway as well. Therefore, Stortinget must be more involved in implementation than the government provides. That is why we are asking today, together with SV, for the government to present a big message proposing a cross-sectoral action plan on how Norway will achieve the objectives of the nature agreement. Unfortunately, that proposal does not have a majority, but I am pleased that the majority of the population at least obliges the government to come back to the Stortinge on the follow-up ‘in an appropriate way’, as it is so well called. Norway and the world need a binding international nature agreement, but we equally need a new and radical national nature policy. Therefore, Norway needs a new green government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5915	It's not that long since I was here in a big discussion about the same topic, and I really thought that's good, because the year and decade we're in is decisive both for the climate and for nature. A million species are threatened, and the world's ecosystem is in poor condition. The Nature Panel has said that radical changes are needed to reverse developments. Natural disasters simply need a corresponding framework such as the Paris Agreement. Negotiations on a new global framework for nature under the UN Convention on Biological Diversity are underway and are expected to end at the party meeting in China in October, but of course it depends on how the pandemic develops. In any case, a draft framework is expected in June and is scheduled to be discussed at a meeting in Cali, Colombia, in August. It is not about setting national legally binding targets, but global policy objectives, and it is important. I can assure you that the government and I have high ambitions for this process, and we want a strong negotiating result. Norway is active in the negotiations. We are now a member of the High Level coalitions that work for protection and other preservation of 30 pst. by 2030, and the Nordic Environment Ministers have now gathered on that goal. We want to push the big countries in the right direction and build bridges between south and north. So far, the Convention has not had a functioning system to measure how we are going to achieve the global goals. Norway has therefore proposed a new system to reflect what the Paris Agreement has to achieve. A key point of the new implementation system that we have proposed is that all countries should have a progressive increase in measures to achieve the global targets, and that also applies to the 30 % protection and other conservation targets. Negotiates will be required. They include many objectives and many elements that will be important for our national follow-up, and as soon as possible, after the negotiations are completed, we will have to review the final outcome and put forward a plan for Norwegian implementation by 2030. So we definitely have to follow that up. So I'd say it's good that there is now a broad assembly in the committee, with all the parties, about the importance of global goals and an ambitious nature agreement, but we're also going to follow up this home. We are dealing with a number of issues today; we have just dealt with a motorcycling issue, and we are going to deal with a matter of marine salmon fishing immediately. What they have in common is that there will be a number of proposals in those cases from different parties that will have great consequences for the wild rain, for the mountain reefs, for the wild. What are these species in common? Well, they're on the red list, and they're almost threatened in Norway. I say that because if one thinks we're going to take care of nature, nationally and globally, it has to be reflected not only in high ambitions, it's good, but also in the practical everyday policy on the specific issues, including the conflict-affected issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5928	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5933	The Council of State was concerned about the follow-up to the nature agreement in its statement, and it is clear that that is what is important in this regard. In early April this year, the Council of State received a proposal from the Environment Directorate for new national parks for Norway. My question is whether the Council of State will quickly follow up the proposal of the Environment Directorate and present proposals for new national parks in Norway in line with that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5939	The answer to that is no – or rather, it depends on what one defines as "rapid". Establishing national parks are extensive processes, and I think that's what all the parties are for. Wide involvement of landowners, municipalities, counties and relevant etats shall be ensured. I can assure you that I will start such processes quickly, but it will take some time to get back to Stortinget with any new national park plan or specific proposals, etc., simply because these are processes that are starting now, and they must and should take some time. That being said, this government has already created three new national parks. A fourth is now in such a process, namely the Eastern Market, which is a thorough process in progress. I think there are many exciting proposals in the Directorate for the Environment now comes, with regard to what is undoubtedly important and unique nature in Norway. But if they get this important protection and the status given by a national park, we have to come back.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5946	I thank the Council of State for a very clear and well-founded response. I can share the idea that it is important to have broad rounds around the establishment of new national parks. But then I want to ask, because in some of these areas there are extensions that threaten, among other things. in the Bjørn West mountains, located in the western part of the country, where there are power-building plans that may conflict with the establishment of a national park: will the Council of State ensure that no intervention is taking place that destroys the natural values of these areas while the processes are in progress in view of the possible establishment of national parks?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5951	Protected areas aren't created until they're created, but I'm generally opposed to destroying important natural values, whether that's one purpose or the other. So the question of power development, whether it's network, or it's water power or wind power – and this is the current issue in some of the areas that are pointed out, that's quite right – must follow thorough and proper processes, where nature is weighed heavily. Besides that, I don't think I'm going to go into the specific issues that exist, because they're part of the responsibility of another state council. But on a general basis, the government believes that we should weigh nature heavily in such processes, and not least where it is important and valuable nature, because we have no important and valuable nature to lose.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5956	That's the line change. The following speakers shall also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5963	We have a lot of things today that nature in different ways is a topic. In the previous case, the centre party used many articles to argue for more motor travel in nature. Some time ago, the Centre Party also voted to lift the protection plan for watercourses. So they want more motor travel, less protection, less ants – a number of individual suggestions that, in total, make the recognitions that the Senter Party has about us facing some challenges a little less valuable when you don't want to take them seriously, and where the argument is that when we use it, we save the world. It requires more arguments from the Center Party, because we're facing some major challenges. We can go back to the summer of drought a few years ago. We had to spend 2 billion. to compensate agriculture for the large losses it had in incomes and crops. The summer of drought also went out on animals and nature. We've had forest fires in the last few years and spent a lot of resources on it. We've also had floods and escapes. It gets wilder and wetter. We face some challenges that we alone in Norway have not contributed so much, but will affect us. There is no doubt that, as one of the world's richest countries, we must contribute to the fight for more nature, not less. Forest protection in Norway is linked to the rainforest activity we in Norway are associated with several governments and several decades have gone by and are incredibly important. Then we also have to do something at home. We've done that, and we'll do it the best we can. So I would say that Nordic cooperation is important. As a result of Greta Thunberg's markings, but also the school strikes we've been in, the Nordic Council has taken the youth seriously. We are developing a programme based on youth engagement, based on their desire to do something for the natural diversity, biodiversity and climate, and channel their commitment to the future. This is not about the last 10,000 years, as the Central Party said in the initiative debate on nature, it's about the next 10,000 years. Then it's especially the young people we need to engage and motivate to do the job of saving what can be saved. That's the big challenge we're facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5974	I'll be brief. I would like to thank you for a number of good contributions to the debate. There was one thing the representative Aukrust said, which I would strongly reject. He threw out a small remark that the proposal of government parties is less ambitious. That was not exactly the word he used, but that it was a little more relaxed than the proposal that was from the Workers' Party. It's completely wrong. The reason why he did not refer to what the proposal was is that it would then be revealed that it was the opposite of what the representative Aukrust said. One of the reasons we wanted to write our own proposal was that the wording of the Labour Party proposal was not good enough. Because it is not certain that there is a big message that is the right way to get back. It may well be a big message, but it's not safe, and that's why you have to have an openness for the government to come back to what's the most appropriate way. It is common to ask in this kind of proposal. In addition, in its proposal, the Workers' Party believes that a whole 2022 can be used to try to create what they have already decided to do, while we say that it will come as soon as possible after the agreement is in place. So we have a slightly higher rate. That's why we wanted our own proposal. We are pleased that this is the proposal that gets the majority, because our wording was simply more precise and better than that of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e5983	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e6000	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who had to appear on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e6007	I will begin by thanking the Committee for good cooperation in this matter. I would also like to thank for the good input of various organisations on behalf of marine and river fishermen, rightholders, organisations, politicians and individuals. The exposure has been large, and there have been very many good recordings. The Villax is initially protected and fishing for anadromous salmonids is prohibited, but the Natural Diversity Act allows fishing on stocks with a harvestable surplus. It is essential that the taxation of the wild species is in line with the principle of sustainability and that the management of the stock is ensured against over-taxation. Scientific advice for salmon management indicates that the largest populations have a largely harvestable surplus, and that therefore fishing poses no threat, but at the same time points out that many of the 400 wild fish stocks in Norway are threatened and in danger of being taxed too hard. Proposals for new regulations on fishing in the sea of anadrome salmonids submitted by the Environment Directorate recommended that it no longer be opened up for fishing with hook nets in Finnmark and that it not be opened up for fishing in coastal areas south of Finnmark, with a few exceptions. The Ministry of Climate and Environment commissioned the Environment Directorate to adopt new rules for fishing for salmon, sea trout and sea trout in line with the position of the Directorate. The working party will stress that salmon fishing has been part of our coastal culture as long as it has been a coastal settlement and that it remains an important part of the nutrient base. Sea salmon fishing is too many both tradition, culture and nutrition. Sea salmon fishing represents an important revenue for many professional fishermen. Therefore, the Workers' Party considers it essential to maintain sustainable sea salmon fishing with its traditions, as an important cultural carrier and industry. In the management of the wilderness axis, good knowledge of the population and knowledge-based management decisions are essential. The Nature Diversity Act only opens up for fish on salmon stocks with a harvestable surplus. The Labour Party believes that Norway has a specific responsibility to manage our wild stocks in a long-term and sustainable perspective. At the same time, we believe it is important to ensure that the right to fish is respected in sustainable salmon fishing both in the sea and in the rivers. In order to ensure sustainable harvesting, it is essential that the harvest takes place on the basis of sustainable populations and the burden-sharing principle. The working party will not support new rules for not opening up fishing with hook nets in Finnmark in 2021. Otherwise, the working party takes note of the fact that the other proposed contractions in sea salmon fishing are implemented for 2021 in the light of the population development of some of the wild salmon strains. With that, I address the proposals of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e6024	The representative of Runar Seestad has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e6029	Over-taxing a species through fishing or hunting will naturally lead to a reduction in the occurrence of this species. That's obvious. In this case, there is a question about whether we are over-taxing or not, and who is going to define it. It is also about the search for measures other than reduced fish fleas. Earlier this year, the government has made some cuts in sea salmon fishing, and these cuts have been made following recommendations from the Directorate-General for the Environment, which is our professional authority in the country, and which believe that more than half of our wild salmon populations are threatened and at risk of being over-taxed. Reports from the Scientific Council for Salmon Management, which says that the nearly 200 largest populations in Norway have a harvestable surplus, which can then be allowed to fish under the Nature Diversity Act. But the same scientific advice also says that it's close to 100 pst. the likelihood of over-taxation of the small and vulnerable populations in coastal areas, which is due to the impossibility of controlling the species of population from which fish are fished in areas where several dozen populations are mixed. And salmon fishing in the sea is fishing in mixed stocks. For us in the Right, it is important to have a knowledge-based management of the wild axis, and we are also concerned with the precautionary principle. We want to preserve and rebuild salmon stocks just to increase the chances that the smallest and vulnerable populations will also have a harvestable surplus in the future. We know that the restrictions affect those who have important incomes from the industry, but it is also important to remember that the wild species is initially at peace, and that fishing for it is thus prohibited, unless there is a harvestable surplus that provides sustainable management. It is the consideration of sustainable fishing that is an assessment criterion under the Nature Diversity Act, not the economic impact on fishermen. We cannot knowingly and willfully see that almost 250 populations are at risk of being overtaxed. We have to take care of the whole diversity of wild-tail populations, not just the largest. The contractions were made to preserve the natural diversity in the sea, a goal that is desirable and to which we have committed ourselves. In the future, more research will also need to be done on the small and vulnerable populations, so that we can gradually launch actions based on knowledge. We look forward to an evaluation back to Stortinget right after the season in order to monitor closely that we are constantly ensuring sustainable management of the wild species.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e6044	In Norway, we have long traditions of harvesting the populations. Sea fishing has existed from the old by. Some run it as part of their diet. Some people have it as part of their rights to their farm, where they and their ancestors have been fishing with salmon for years. All parties in this room, except for the Advance Party, want to deprive them of those rights. And I who had believed that the Center Party and the Workers' Party would support the little man's fight against the many. However, the centre party, which says they are busy in the districts and primary industries, wants to deprive so many people along the coast of the nutrient base. An objecty right to the farm does not take the Senterpartiet into account. I also notice that four out of five representatives from the Workers' Party in the Committee have overshadowed the path in this debate. That's remarkable. I'm going to quote a former Labour Party representative who writes the following about the tightening up of sea salmon fishing: Symbol policy in general, but the coastal fishermen are too few and too small for the government. Not long before leaching is reserved for lard if this continues. For coastal fishermen this may be an important source of income, but instead amateurs are given priority. It tears in my heart. It's not a quote from me, but from a former employee party representative. Unfortunately, when a group is small enough, you can bald and choose with them as you like. There are obviously not enough choices to pick up to do what is right today. The Progress Party is promoting more proposals in this Chamber. We are promoting proposals to stop the tightening up of sea salmon fishing and to continue the same legislation for 2021 as for 2020. It should have been completely unproblematic. We'd rather take a breath in the ground and keep the last year's legislation. It is only the Progress Party that is voting in favour. Then we propose that the government return to Stortinget with a proposal to strengthen the management of the wild species, on the basis of sustainable harvesting according to the burden-sharing principle. For the Progress Party, it is important that we strengthen salmon stocks. That is why we have built laxette stairs, allocated money to re-banking, we have four national centres for the villa axis, etc. – much more than the red-green government did when they crashed. Then we all agree, we also agree, that everyone has to take their share of the burden if a population is to be reduced. That clearly means that the marine salmon fishermen must take their share of the burden, we are not strangers to it. But then it must come as a result of a process that has legitimacy, and not as a imposition. We want a dialogue between the marine salmon fishermen and the Ministry of Climate and Environment. Finally, a explanation of vote: we will inform you that we will subsidly support proposal No. 2 and No 14, which was promoted as a loose proposal in the hall today. We will also support proposals for Decision I, where an evaluation is requested. With that, I would like to address the proposal of the Advance Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e6067	The representative Gisle Meininger Saudland has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e6072	The government has tightened up when it comes to sea salmon fishing and river fishing. The centre party will stress that the matter is demanding, and that is good arguments for both points of view. It emerges from the case that the contractions in sea salmon fishing are based on technical recommendations from the Scientific Council for Salmon Management to avoid harvesting stocks that do not tolerate it. The recommendations are based on a review of all coastal and fjord systems in Norway and assess the extent to which there is a risk of fishing for salmon belonging to rivers where salmon is scarce and therefore cannot be fished. Because salmon from threatened and vulnerable populations come from the sea to all outer coastal areas, the government has chosen to stop sea salmon fishing in these areas, while in the fjord systems, where the populations of the associated rivers are sustainable, are still open to sea salmon fishing. I want to make it clear that the intrusions do not mean a total ban on marine salmon fishing, as some claim. There will be significant sea salmon fishing following the proposed tightening. For the whole of Finnmark plus eleven fjords in the rest of the country there will still be sea fishing for salmon with kilenot. The centre lot is of the opinion that significant reductions have been made in both sea salmon fishing and river fishing for 2021 and that the areas closed for sea salmon fishing are related to the areas where the salmon rivers are closed. Thus, there is already a balanced approach to the contractions that have been made. So the Central Party is essentially supporting the tightening up that's been done this year to get more knowledge on the table. We have made two proposals together with the Workers' Party, which is concerned about the situation of sea salmon fishing in Finnmark and the South, for which we are particularly concerned. Finnland has long traditions of sea salmon fishing with hook nets, and the situation here differs from the rest of the country. Therefore, the Centre Party is in favour of proposing to allow hook net fishing in Finnmark out of the year and that other measures to strengthen the wild salmon population and other forms of reduction in sea salmon fishing in that area should be considered. Sea salmon fishing in the South is also particularly hard hit by the proposed intensifications. The South has many professional fishermen with salmon fishing as an important secondary income. This also applies to individual fishermen in other parts of the country. The stocking stock targets are reported to have been achieved and the centre party believes that it would be wise to review the proposed measures in the South and their impact in the region.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e6091	Norway has a specific responsibility to manage our wildstock populations in the long term. The amount of wild salmon is reduced by approx. 50 pst. in the last 35 years. It has been due to persistently high threat from, among others, the farming industry and hydropower generation. And as a result, the wild species has been assessed on the red list of species that are threatened or near to threat. For many of the wild-tail populations, the situation is very critical. I would like the proposers to take up their concerns and also express their concerns about some of these threats to the wild game. On the basis of a reduction in the number of wild salmon, we take note of the proposed cuts in sea salmon fishing undertaken in 2021 by the government. Salmon fishing has also been part of our coastal culture as long as it has been living along the Norwegian coast, and it remains an important part of the food base for many. For some coastal farms, maritime fishing rights are an important part of the income base and the farm operating base. Sea salmon fishing is too many both a tradition, a culture and a reintroduction. Therefore, it is important that we are able to maintain large enough wild-tail populations to keep a fish for wild-axes. It is important that we have good knowledge of populations in the management of the wilderness axis and that management decisions are knowledge-based. The nature diversity law introduced in 2009 only opens up to fish for salmon stocks with a harvestable surplus. It is therefore essential that knowledge be taken into account in the management of all harvestable species. We therefore believe that tools should be put in place to ensure viable wild species populations, but they should also ensure maritime culture and nutrition. We have also made a proposal today that the government should look ahead at alternatives to stopping hook net fishing in Finnmark. The alternatives may be quota restrictions. As long as fishermen are able, in principle, to land all the fish they catch, there is in principle no difference between fishing with hook nets or not. – I bring up the proposal SV on its own, and the proposals we have with the Greens/Greens/EFA.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e6108	Then the representative Lars Haltbrecken addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e6113	Sea salmon fishing has long traditions along our coast. I have once heard an anecdote at home that some housewives' contracts apparently had limits – a kind of maxim – to how much redfish the housemen had to consume from the salmon, because it was such an important and huge exploitation of the populations we had. Unfortunately, we are not there. We have stocks that are marginal, and where one has been required to have limits. This case indicates that one is required to take that type of deviation. On the one hand, there is a red list of species, and on the other hand, there are also traditional forms of fishing and traditions that are important in many parts of our country. It's not easy to wave the two. For this reason, I am pleased that a large majority have now been given to support the proposal as a government party, among other things. in which a request for an evaluation of the status of the small and vulnerable populations of wild species is made, and for this to come to the Storting. That means that this is a case where one can get a foot in the ground. As government colleagues have pointed out before, it is important that we get more research and knowledge about these stocks and their exploitation, and that the evaluation comes here, so that we can have a sound administration. So I'm going to add that we have a responsibility to make sure that the burden distribution is correct. Catches of salmon in the sea have long traditions in our country and have been through great restrictions historically as the population has gone back. There must be a balance between exploitation at sea and exploitation in rivers, and not least the other industries that also occupy large areas, which go beyond the important wild stocks we have. It is important that this room should be considered when we discuss this matter further.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e6125	This is not a simple matter. Here, natural interests stand up against maritime and traditional industrial activities that are important to many people along our coast. We in the Green Party put nature and climate first, and the consequence of this is that we cannot support the proposals of the Progress Party to reverse the contractions in sea salmon fishing. The Green Party is a member of a knowledge-based nature management. The contractions that have been notified are just that. Scientific advice for salmon management has demonstrated that the largest wild salmon stocks have largely had a harvestable surplus, and that therefore fishing poses no threat to the populations. At the same time, they conclude that it is close to 100 pst. the risk of over-taxation of small and vulnerable populations in all coastal areas over the next five years. Although several wild fish stocks are sustainable, it is almost impossible to control the population from which they are fished in coastal areas. We simply don't know if the salmon you fish along the coast comes from a sustainable or threatened stock. Permitting fishing in such a situation would be a breach of the Nature Diversity Act § 9 that the precautionary principle should be applied. Such a breach of Norway’s main natural law cannot be included in the Green Party. Although they indicated the restrictions are necessary, there is nevertheless a deep injustice in this case. For it is not for the fishermen of the sea that more wild salmon are threatened. It is not the maritime culture that makes the wild axis move from the category viable to near threatened on the Art Database's Red List. The greatest threats to the wild species are escaped farmed fish and salmon. These threats are the result of a farming policy and a farming industry that has given priority to maximum growth over nature considerations. If we were to follow the polluter-pays principle in this case, the breeding companies would compensate the sea exams and other groups for the loss they suffer as a result of the necessary tightening. When the non-indebted person loses part of his or her life base, he or she must be compensated for. That is why, today, we are promoting a loose proposal, asking the government to investigate and put in place a compensation system for marine salmon fishermen affected by the notified intrusions. We also propose, together with SV, to ask the government to investigate measures against, among other things. farming in order to ensure sustainable populations of wild fauna and flora along the coast. We are also proposing to investigate measures to ensure maritime culture and nutrition related to sea salmon fishing, and we are asking the government to evaluate salmon management in Finnmark. With that, I will address the proposal that the Greens have been promoting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e6144	The representative Per Espen Stoknes has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e6149	Norway is a wild race. We have one of the world's largest populations of North Atlantic wild breeds. Whole 450 different populations spawn in Norwegian watercourses. But with that wealth, there is also a responsibility. Scientific advice for salmon management reports that the presence of wild salmon on the Norwegian coast has halved in the last 30 years. The Villax has now been added to the red list. More than half of our wild stocks are small, they are vulnerable, and they need protection. The starting point for salmon management in Norway is that fishing on anadromous salmon fish is prohibited. However, following natural disasters, you can still allow fishing for salmon from stocks that have a fallable surplus. Here, natural disasters promise clear demands for us who manage the wilderness axis. We need to be able to control which stocks are taxed, and we need to know that those stocks have a fallable surplus. The condition of fallable surplus is a central element in ensuring a sustainable salmon fishing, and it is a decisive condition for both marine salmon and salmon fishing in the watercourse. Therefore, it is challenging to manage fishing in mixed populations, i.e. areas where several different populations are involved. Let me illustrate: if a stock doesn't have a fallable surplus, it won't be opened for fishing in the watercourse where that stock belongs, and there's a lot of watercourses in Norway. The importance of that stock will also limit fishing activities in fjords outside the watercourse, thereby reducing the pressure on fish. But in addition to the fjord, in the coastal area, there are several dozen populations mixing. Many of these files will be small and vulnerable. We can't guarantee that fishing in those areas will only tax robust salmon populations. By not opening up salmon fishing now in coastal areas, we are reducing that risk. That's good. In Finnmark, the Scientific Council for Salmon Management has recommended a 50 pst. reduction in sea salmon fishing. In the regulations, this reduction is made by the fact that fishing with hook nets in Finnmark is no longer open, which is already banned in the rest of the country. The Environment Directorate has not reduced fishing times in Finnmark, and thus they have not been given the same restrictions as the rest of the country, for the sake of traditional Sámi salmon fishing, which many are rightly engaged in. The management of the wild axis is based on knowledge. The careful regulation is based on reports from the Scientific Council for Salmon Management. The management of the wild species is also based on law. It is not that only sea salmon fishing is limited by regulations. Salmon fishing in watercourses is greatly reduced, and that's the same principle we use there as for the regulation of marine salmon fishing. In order to ensure that wild fish can be fished in Norway in the future – and I believe that they are all – we need to ensure that there is sustainable fishing on the various populations, not least on vulnerable populations. So the new regulations are now in place, and I'm glad that it seems that the Storting supports that direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e6166	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e6171	Scientific advice on salmon management has normally provided tax advice based on stock assessments of about 200 salmon populations. They have been based on specific studies and included 95 pst. of the reported salmon catch. New of the year is that scientific advice should also include a further 250 small and vulnerable populations. When Scientific advice is given to salmon councils, it is based on stock development, where average growth is over five years, because natural fluctuations occur over time. But there has been no mapping of the small and vulnerable populations, so you don't have a baseline. Since monitoring and research on these small and vulnerable populations has not been a priority since 2014, what ‘baseline’ should any population development be assessed? And how is that going to be done after just one year?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e6176	We have a thorough basis for the work being done. Scientific advice on salmon management produces an annual status report for the 199 largest populations. That's good and it's the most fished for it. What's also good is that most of these populations are in pretty good shape, it's fine. But we have many other populations that are not in the same situation. In 2020, the Scientific Council for Salmon Management prepared its own report with advice on the taxation of marine salmon fisheries. Then, as the representative says, the 250 populations who are vulnerable were also taken into account. The current regulation is based on both reports. Of course, the precautionary principle is very important, because it follows the laws of nature. It is true that there is some knowledge that we do not have about the 250 small and vulnerable populations, but we know that they are small and vulnerable, and the Scientific Council for Salmon Management estimates that there are 97-100 pst. the risk of stocks being taxed too heavily in coastal areas. What I mean is knowledge that we have a responsibility to take over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e6183	I record that the Council of State cannot answer the specific question, we do not have a «baseline» to make an assessment from. We don't know the state of the 250 small and vulnerable populations. We're really missing the starting point to know what's going on with the small and vulnerable populations over time. In addition, an assessment shall be made only after one year, not as the Scientific Council uses when assessing the tax councils of the 200 other populations, which actually show that we are reaping a profit. So that's a little bit strange. I ask the Council of State to say what kind of baseline is to be used. And what should be taken into account when making an evaluation after just one year, which is not normal practice in these contexts?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e6188	I'm a little uncertain about what the representative is asking for, is that one should now have a ban for five years and then do an evaluation. I haven't fully interpreted the Progress Party there, and I guess from their starting point of view, they should be happy that we're going to make an evaluation after a year. Then it's probably a little too soon to say how a methodically should work on it. We have a very competent professional environment – which can do much more about salmon than I can – that will do, of course, with transparent and solid scientific methods. I think we have to assume that we now not only have a situation with many vulnerable populations, but also where developments in several areas have gone in the wrong direction. When there's a half of the perception in 30 years, when we see that the wild axis is now being moved over to the near-frozen red list, there's no government deciding or figuring out, there's something like that, and we have a responsibility to take over and run a management there.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e6195	I can reassure the Council of State that the Progress Party does not want to save the populations for five years. We want to have a "baseline" first, before we peace. That's why we also wanted to postpone this tightening for a year, to get knowledge on the table, in order to have a baseline to evaluate from. We don't have that today. We're going to evaluate it from something we don't know, and we're going to do it in a completely different way than we've traditionally done. I record that the Council of State cannot fully respond to how this is to be implemented. But on top of something else: the Council of State said that in Finnmark 50 pst has been proposed. reduction in sea salmon fishing. We have considered proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, where they will also allow hook net fishing, and they say that the Council of State needs to consider other measures to strengthen wild fish stocks and other forms of reduction in sea salmon fishing in that area. What other forms of reduction in marine salmon fishing may be relevant if this is given a majority?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e6202	In theory, there are many ways to reduce sea salmon fishing, whether it's about how long you're allowed to fish, how long you're allowed to fish, or how long you're going to go. When it comes to hook yarn, I think it's important to stress that there's a difference between hook yarn and kilenot, and that's probably not like that. SV said here before in the debate, that it's the exact same thing as what a fisherman is doing. Hook yarn selectively captures medium-sized holaxes, which is the most important gland axis. That's why hook yarn is forbidden to use throughout the country, with the exception of Finnmark. It was already announced in 2007 that one would also phase out krona fishing in Finnmark. 14 years have passed since that warning arrived. So it's probably not something that should come on very quickly. It is also true that most fishers in Finnmark have both kilenot and hook nets. When it comes to process, this has been a thorough process. We started in December 2019. I had the first meeting with the salmon fishermen in January 2020, immediately afterwards. We've had a whole process all the way. It is possible that not everyone in Stortinget has followed him, but it has at least the ones that this gets followed. We've had a good dialogue. Now we have concluded, and now the Storting also has the opportunity to discuss the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e6211	I do not fully buy the claim that hook yarn fishes selectively on female salmon between six and seven kilograms. It is rather a selective argument used in the case. But a little bit back to this with other forms of reduction in sea salmon fishing, as the Workers' Party and the Center Party are now proposing. This may mean a reduction in the number of days allowed to fish in Finnmark — and, to a large extent, in Nord-Troms. Nord-Troms now only have nine days where they can fish sea salmon. SV also said that there could be a proposal that maybe you should look at a quota limit. If the Centre Party and the Workers' Party's proposal are given a majority, are the current opportunities for reduction in sea salmon fishing by reduced number of days, quota limits for those fishing for sea salmon or anything else? Could that be relevant?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e6219	If that proposal gets more plurality and one then will allow hook net fishing in Finnmark, even if it is not permitted in any other part of the country, then I see that I am asking you to consider other forms of reduction in sea salmon fishing. Then, of course, I will consider it. As I said, one can think of different ways to do it. It is at least good that one in this proposal takes on board the need to improve the stock of salmon in the whole country, including Finland. I would also like to remind you that we have a particularly demanding situation in the large, important watercourse, that is, the Tanavas stretch, where the stock is really not good, and where one now has closed for not only hook nets, but all sea salmon fishing. It covers quite a number of municipalities and quite a few parts of Finnmark. But it's absolutely necessary to keep the natural values and the economic values in the long term, because I think everyone who likes to fish salmon, whether it's in rivers or at sea, has to assume that if one exploits the stocks downwards and they get smaller and smaller, there won't be so much salmon fishing in a few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e6226	I react to trying to put it forward in such a way that if you come up with a ban on using hook nets just before you start the season, the option is to impose strong restrictions on other fish. I think that's an attempt at a political game and a terror propaganda. I need a clarification question to the Council of State. Is it really that if you don't get pressured by a ban on hook nets, you go into fishing time to punish the same fishermen?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e6231	As the Council of State, I have to deal with what Stortinget may decide. Now I understand that there are many proposals here, and it is not given what is agreed, but at least the proposal it is about, says that a requesting government authorises hook net fishing in Finnmark and assess other measures to strengthen wild fish stocks and other forms of reduction in sea salmon fishing. Then I assume that's exactly what the representatives think. But how to do it in that case, we have to get back to it. I can't decide one or the other way here right now. But if the Storting wants full care about how these things are going forward, I'm going to urge the Storting not to vote in favour of these different proposals, but rather to end up with what has been introduced by regulations, which are the most perceptive, and which are clear, and which everyone is now agreeing to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e6236	I want to hear a little bit about what the council thinks is the difference between kilenot and hook yarn. Is there any difference at all? As I see it, the only difference for the fishermen is that they have to be almost two to get to put a kilonot and also smoked it. It's a lot more complicated than a hook yarn. So the question is, what's the difference? Is there any significant difference that makes you have to have kilenot?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e6241	As I was in a previous answer, there are several challenges with hook yarn, which is probably the reason why hook yarn is not allowed to be used in marine salmon fishing in any part of the country, with the exception of Finnmark. It's that hook yarn selectively captures medium-sized holaxes, and medium-sized holaxes are a very important gymnastics. It's probably not that this is something that should be phased out into Finnmark, should come on very surprisingly. Already under the red-green government, of which the Center Party was part, as far as I can remember, in 2007, 14 years ago, notifying that one would phase out hook net fishing in Finnmark. Now 14 years have passed, and to the extent that the fishermen have expected, in the sense that, as far as I know, most fishermen in Finnmark now have kilenot, and they have both hook nets and kilenot. That's good. I think that after 14 years it has at least been pretty tough how this would end eventually. Now we've suggested that, and if the Center Party has changed view since that time, they'll be honest about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e6246	I can't talk for what's been, I'm here now. I have fished for salmon. I don't think the salmon sees any difference whether it is female or he, whether it comes to a kilenot, or whether it comes to a hook yarn. It gets stuck and gets caught, to say it like that, and harvested twice a day. But it's now to the extent that the Council of State says it as he says it. This indicates that he has no knowledge of it. The other thing I'd like to hear about is the other species that have come a lot more forward now, in Finnmark at least. There are otters and seals, which are quite a significant proportion in these fjords, which are in the same area. Do you want to do something about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e6253	Firstly, I can assure you that I have a good insight into sea salmon fishing, and I can also say that in this process I have had several meetings with the interests here, both individual fishermen and the organisation. I've met them. I also want to say that I understand that it is not perceived as a very positive news that it is one that has been used to doing, this year should not be allowed. I understand that very well. At the same time, it is important to say that fishing on different stocks of salmon is not a good thing if it is not an excess of that stock, either a river or a course along the coast. One only has the right to stay if there is a fallable surplus. It's an important principle, and I hope that the Center Party also supports it. If not, there will be not so many files left to talk to each other. When it comes to the predation of other species, it is clear that it has always been a natural part of the wild species’ life – of course. At the same time, we cannot fish out or take out other predators without having sufficient knowledge of them and the consequences of that kind of extraction for the rest of the ecosystem. You also have to have one in the bottom. But with that background, of course, there are things you can consider when knowledge is good.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e6260	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e6267	I love fishing. That's one of the fun things I do. I have received two sea trout, I have not received salmon, but I have not used tools, they have actually jumped into the boat. So to me it's fun. But for others it is necessary. It's the fishermen. They live for and of what they get from the sea. There is no doubt that the Workers' Party will have a sound management of our wild breeds. To do so in the best possible way, we need knowledge, and the knowledge we have points out that there are challenges related to the taxation of vulnerable populations in coastal areas. On Agder, there are major dilemmas about how to deal with this matter. On the one hand, in the Workers' Party, we have a very clear and clear environmental profile and climate profile that weighs heavily on our decisions. On the other hand, we have small communities along the coast that depend on them getting fishing, which depends on people being able to go fishing. They're small fish receptions. That means that those who live on that fish create the basis for school where people live, they create the basis that there are groceries in the store where they live, and they create the basis for continuing a traditional profession from one generation to the other where they live. We have had a lot of people engaged in this fishing – rapporteurs, the Fiskerlag Sør and individuals have approached us and told us how important it is that they maintain their ability to have life income related to the business at sea. I'll give a homage to the committee, which has really been stabbed and accepted all of those requests, and has done its best to balance the various considerations in dealing with this matter. I can only say that I am pleased that the Committee has come up with the proposals that they have made, and the proposals that the Central Party and the Labour Party have made. I would also like to say that I am very pleased that the Progress Party has chosen to vote subsidiaryly in favour of proposal No. 2, because it will be a good thing for fishermen along the coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e6280	The Party recognises the need for measures to preserve the wild species, but considers that it needs to be implemented in a targeted way in the areas where the salmon strains are at risk, in accordance with the burden-sharing principle and not least with basic knowledge, a baseline on how to assess future developments. We don't have that for these 250 small and vulnerable populations. We have very little knowledge of that. There has been no research on this since 2014. New arrests are taking place. We're going to make assessments after just one year, not after five years, as you normally do. I would like to point out that there is no other fisheries management that has been set up in such a way that only the part of the stock that has reached the spawning ground should be harvested to ensure recruitment. On the contrary, in other fisheries management it is increasingly appropriate to close spawning grounds for fish in cases of weak stocking. With a significant interaction, «wrong», between populations, it does not help to close a river for fishing on one side of the fjord while it is open to fishing in rivers on the other side of the fjord. That's when you fish on the mixed stock. As I was in the process, scientific advice by 2020 has made stock assessments of 200 populations. The tax councils have been based on specific studies up to 2021 and have included 95 pst. of the reported salmon catch. Now you have to include 250 small and vulnerable populations that you don't know about. That's what makes the Progress Party worried about this case. That is why we want to postpone the tightening up for one year, to spend the year collecting knowledge so that you have a 'baseline' from which you can make assessments in the future. But the government doesn't want that. It does not want the Workers' Party. It doesn't want the Center Party. Then turn to proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, which the Progress Party has sincerely assessed strongly to support. However, the proposal says ‘and other forms of reduction in sea salmon fishing’. As signalled by the Council of State, this may mean a reduction in the number of fishing days and may involve a quota limit. My question to the Labour Party and the Centre Party is: Will they continue to stand by their proposal No. 1, which will result in further reductions in fishing days for salmon fishermen in Finnmark and Nord-Troms?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e6291	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-20.ana.ud506e6307	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
